BY ADEWALE AJAYI  | The Ohanaeze Ndigbo has condemned the role played by the acclaimed leader of Indigenes People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu in the destruction of Lagos State in the wake of violent #EndSARS protest. The group in a statement signed by its secretary-general, Dimm Uche Okwukwu noted that Kanu does not represent the interest of the Igbos but only represented an extremist trend   that   should   not   be   pampered   but   exposed   before   he   sets   the relationship between the Yoruba and Igbo on a path of destruction. “The   vast   majority   of   Ndigbo are not murderers, arsonists, looters, rioters and anti-socials. We condemn the attacks, in unequivocal terms. More succinctly, Ndigbo vehemently condemns the attack and destruction of properties.” He also noted that it was wrong for Kanu to have called on Igbos to begin the destruction of Lagos. “Honest and responsible organisations should condemn this act by Kanu which incited violence. He incited hate, Nigerians and the whole world heard him on audio. “This does not in any way represent the aspiration of Igbo people. We condemn his incitement to violence and carnage. The Igbos are not part of this crime. “It is not in Igbo culture to destroy the property of another man. Kanu has chosen a dishonourable path and Ndigbo in and out of Nigeria must condemn his inciting statements on Radio Biafra. A race that proffers no protest to or condemnation of the crime committed by its member is privy to such misdeed,” The statement reads. Ohanaeze Ndigbo further noted that having taken time   to   study   and   analyze   what   transpired   in   Lagos   State, it has come   out   to   clearly   condemn   the   unprovoked   attacks   on private properties. He said the attack   on Asiwaju Ahmed  Tinubu’s property   was callous, adding  that   Tinubu  had  tried  his  best   to protect   the   integrity  of  Igbo economic and political classes. He, however, called on all the security agencies, particularly the Police, Department of State Service (DSS) and  the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) to employ all instruments at their disposal to unravel the circumstances  behind the burning of the property of the respected Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, which Kanu claimed responsibility.