By ERNEST NZOR There has been a long history of Gender Based Violence (GBV) though barely reported and mostly undocumented. Due to stigmatization and humiliation, women are unwilling to report cases of sexual harassment and domestic violence leading to an insufficiency of tangible data around the subject matter. As society began to encourage women to speak up, there has been remarkable increase in the reports and documentation of the incidences such as incest, rape, molestation, and abuse. Perhaps given the increasing willingness of women to report, rather than decrease, the number of reported GBV incidences have been on the increase in the last three years. The year 2020, has seen a surge of GBV cases especially during the months of the lockdown precipitated by Covid-19. The media has been awash with reports that show the alarming spike in incidents and consequences of GBV over the last six months. Local media reported almost 4,000 schoolgirls got pregnant in Kenya, while there was a 50 per cent increase in GBV within the first six months of 2020 in Liberia. In Nigeria, concerned by the alarming rise in GBV during the lock down and public outcry, all state Governors declared a state of emergency on GBV in June 2020. The rise of GBV during this period of pandemic is not peculiar to Africa alone as WARIF reports that there has been an increase in GBV globally by 20 per cent. France and Argentina reported 30 per cent and 25 per cent increase in cases of domestic violence during the lock down, respectively. Several social change agents are constantly drawing the attention of Government, Policy makers and Law enforcement agencies to this unhealthy development. As a dynamic social catalyst, the Committee of Friends for Humanity, COFFHA, as part of its advocacy programmes, joined well-meaning organization and individuals to decry this unwholesome development by organising its annual summit on curbing the hidden menace of sexual abuse. The COFFHA Annual Summit 2020, themed ‘’Curbing the Rising Incidence of Sexual Abuse in Africa: The Drive for a Sustainable Solution’’ brought together thought leaders, policy makers, change agents and individuals of repute to deliberate on the very important subject matter while drawing a blue print for the changes required to halt this damaging trend.
The Summit which held virtually had Ambassador Arikana Quoa, Founder and President of the Africa Diaspora Development Institute (ADDI) as Keynote Speaker, other lined up speakers included, Her Excellency Erelu Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi, First Lady, Ekiti State; Anita Kemi DaSilva- Ibru MD, MPH, Founder, Women at Risk International Foundation (WARIF); Peter Mancha, Programme Manager, UN Women and Ubong King, President, Ubong King Foundation. Another notable personality in attendance of the Summit is Her Excellency, First Lady of Enugu State, Mrs Monica Ugwuanyi. The event was kicked off by the COFFHA Publicity and Marketing Executive, Chizor Malize, who shared that COFFHA, Community of Friends and Humanity, has executed several community development programmes for over two decades of its existence and to take the narrative further, COFFHA has brought together knowledgeable individuals to share insights on the shadow pandemic – sexual abuse, which has risen steeply during the Covid-19 pandemic. ‘’COFFHA is visionary and dynamic in seeking ways to bring knowledge to the forefront, one of such is enabling discussions and deliberation around sustainable solutions to address the increasing rise in sexual abuse in Africa’’ she said According to Nkechi Ali-Balogun, President COFFHA, who delivered the welcome address, gender-based violence including rape, domestic violence and sexual abuse has assumed a serious dimension globally. It has increased at an alarming rate in Africa and Nigeria and remains a shameless masquerade in our societies. She further shared that the lockdown due to the Covid-19 has seen a quantum rise in rape and sexual violence reports – “within the last nine months women have been expose to sexual harassment making it a shadow pandemic”. This informed the need to put together this intellectual discourse to share, advocate and advance sustainable solution to this hidden threat. Her Excellency, Ambassador Arikana Chihombori Quao in her keynote address shared that sexual abuse is not just an African issue, but a world-wide phenomenon and it needs to be uprooted from the roots which starts with education. Speaking on how to curb GBV, “Serious legislation needs to be discussed and introduced, The more we talk about the issue in platforms like this, the more we continue to remind and empower the girl child that its fine to speak up. We also need to create more shelters for victims of GBV, let abused girls who point fingers at family members who abuse her, be reassured that they have somewhere to go to and be protected, not becoming homeless instead’’. She commended the efforts of COFHHA for putting together the apt and impactful seminar, indicating that the Forum would serve as an avenue to highlight and amplify the voices of the voiceless which are the women and girls. Speaking at the Summit, the First Lady of Ekiti State Erelu Bisi Adeleye-Fayemi posited that a lot has been done in the state and national level to curb GBV in Nigeria, but that there was a need to deepen these interventions. She brilliantly highlighted eight intervention strategies government, institutions and individuals can adopt to curb this rising menace. The first is the need to continue the call for a state of emergency on GBV, according to her, it is more impactful if all arms of government, as well as public institutions declare their own state of emergency on GBV and apply it to their various institutions. Other strategies listed by her include: effective implementation of legal and policy frameworks; effective coordination of mechanisms for curbing GBV at national and state level; more women empowerment initiatives; community ownership; ensuring treatments, care and protection mechanisms for GBV victims; funding and provision of psychosocial support for victims; and lastly more partnerships. ‘’Government needs to execute more women empowerment initiatives. When women are empowered educationally and financially, then we can break the circle of suffering and oppression. Also, communities need to own the issue, they need to buy into the argument that we cannot have a society that condoles violence against women and girls. When a community buys into this conversation, they will less likely sabotage government and institutions efforts in the fight against GBV’’ she shared Kemi DaSilva- Ibru in her presentation revealed that at WARIF, within two weeks of the lockdown they recorded a 64 per cent increase in distress calls received, with 72 per cent of the calls being women at risk. Over 3,600 rape cases were recorded across Nigeria during the lockdown, which pushed for the call for state of emergency declared in June 2020. According to her, sustainable solutions Non-Governmental Organisations can implement include: development of comprehensive health services for women at risk via services provided at Sexual Assault Referral Centres; promotion of the need for education and implementation of educational programmes; creation of awareness and advocacy about violence against women in all communities targeting different audience and groups; collation and provision of collated data to monitor trends and patterns; and inclusion of boys and men in the conversation. Peter Mancha in the same session noted that weak mechanism for prevention of sexual violence including monitoring and reporting mechanisms continues to account for the rising incidence of GBV, amongst other factors. ‘’The Covid-19 has deepened pre-existing inequalities, exposing vulnerabilities in social, political and economic systems’’ he said. He again emphasized the strong need for support from men in fighting GBV. Ubong King, also a speaker at the Summit, listed that culture and religion has played a huge part in the rise in sexual violence. Women have been second placed and their voice subdued. He pushed for the empowerment of women, enlightening them of their value and potentials and the education of men as core players in curbing sexual abuse in Africa and globally. Feedback from attendees of the session acknowledged that the Summit was highly revealing and exposing, also proffering practicable and result-driven solutions to the hidden pandemic facing countries globally.