Russia will attempt to overturn its four-year ban from international sport this week in the latest chapter of a long-running and controversial saga over state-sanctioned doping. Global anti-doping body, WADA had in December last year declared the Russian Anti-Doping Agency to be non-compliant after being accused of manipulating testing data. The ban meant the country would miss the Tokyo Olympics as well as football’s 2022 World Cup in Qatar and the 2022 Winter Olympics in China. This week’s Court of Arbitration for Sport hearing, which is expected to last until Friday, has already caused division. “WADA had requested that the hearing be held in public but for that to happen, all parties are required to be in agreement and that was not the case,” said a WADA statement. Instead, and in keeping with the ‘Cold War style’ of the case, the hearing will take place behind closed doors and at a secret location. A decision will only be made public on an undisclosed date. Russia considers its ban to be legally indefensible. Former Russian prime minister, Dmitry Medvedev described the suspension as chronic anti-Russian hysteria. It’s being billed as a landmark week for Russian sport and global anti-doping efforts. WADA, formed in 1999, also has plenty on the line after the US threatened to pull its annual $2.7 million financing. American lawmakers accused WADA of failing to implement governance reforms and has been critical of their handling of the Russian scandal. Also, the International Olympic Committee and sports federations are expecting clear directives from CAS, eight months ahead of the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics. “WADA has left no stone unturned in preparation for this hearing and we are looking forward to having the opportunity to present our case clearly and fairly to the panel,” said WADA president, Witold Banka. “I remain convinced that the WADA executive committee made the right recommendation in this case last December. “As at every other stage, we are following due process in relation to RUSADA’s compliance procedure as we continue to deal effectively with this complex matter.” 