Some Northern elders have commended the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar for speaking on the deplorable security situation in the region. According to the elders, the position of the Sultan is a true reflection of the state of insecurity in the North, which they maintain, is largely responsible for the food crisis in the country. But reacting to the monarch’s expression, the elders operating under the aegis of Coalition of Northern Elders for Peace and Development, in a statement by their national coordinator, Engr. Zana Goni and the national women leader, Hajia Mario Bichi, said the Sultan vindicated their consistent alarm on the state of insecurity in the region. The Sultan had, on Thursday’s meeting of the Nigerian Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) decried the precarious security situation in the North, saying the region was now the worst place to live.
Reflecting on the activities of bandits in the North West, the Sultan said “people leave foodstuff in their houses for bandits. While calling for urgent action through actionable engagement, the spiritual
leader of Muslims in Nigeria said: “Security situation in northern Nigeria has assumed a worrisome situation”, regretting that no strong media platform could report the story to the world”. The monarch had said, “A few weeks ago, over 76 persons were killed in a community in Sokoto in a day. I was there alongside the governor to commiserate with the affected community”. “Unfortunately, you don’t hear these stories in the media because it’s in the North. We have accepted the fact that North doesn’t have strong media to report the atrocities of these bandits”. “People think the North is safe but that assumption is not true. In fact, it’s the worst place to be in this country. Because bandits go around in the villages, households and markets with their AK 47 rifles and nobody is challenging them”. “They stop at the market, buy things, pay and collect change, with their weapons openly displayed. These are facts I know because I am at the centre of it. I am not only a traditional ruler; I am also a religious leader”.and seriously find solutions to the problem; otherwise, we will find ourselves soon, in a situation where we would lose sleep because of insecurity”. “So, I am in a better place to tell the story. I can speak for the north in this regard because I am fully aware of the security challenges there. We have to sincerely and seriously find solutions to the problem; otherwise, we will find ourselves soon, in a situation where we would lose sleep because of insecurity”. “As religious leaders, we must promote peace, love, unity and tolerance among our followers. We will discuss all these issues at the close door session of the meeting and possibly come out with strong suggestions for government”. The elders, therefore, called on other prominent leaders in the region to join their voices in projecting the true position of things in the region, in order to attract the attention of relevant authorities.