By Anthony Adah Abraham, ABUJA As the United Kingdom are on the second wave of the COVID-19 lockdown, and Nigerians have also been informed that their could be a second wave of the virus hitting the country, popular Ukrainian based Nigerian Afro-fusion artiste who doubles as the owner of Glory Music Group, Olajide Orodo popularly called GMG Boss has urged Nigerians to ensure that they continue to abide by all the Federal Government safety rules and regulations on covid-19. He made this known during his radio tour to Rhythm FM, Naija FM, City FM and others. According to him, Nigeria don’t need to go on a second lockdown if the people strictly abide by the federal government regulations on COVID-19. He pledge his support to inform fans and other Nigerians about the imminent danger the dreaded virus pose to the society. He called on all stakeholders not to relent in their effort in sensitising and informing people on the need to wear face mask, always wash their hands and keep distance from crowded places.
He also promised to host a mini concert this festive season in line with the federal government’s social distancing regulations just to quench the thirst of his fans who have been yearning to hear from him. It could be recalled that GMG Boss also headlined the Bez viz Festival in September which was streamed live to thousands of people across the globe. As the United Kingdom are on the second wave of the COVID-19 lockdown, and Nigerians have also been informed that their could be a second wave of the virus hitting the country, popular Ukrainian based Nigerian Afro-fusion artiste and owner of Glory Music Group, Olajide Orodo popularly called GMG Boss has urged Nigerians to ensure that they continue to abide by all the Federal Government safety rules and regulations on covid-19. He made this known during his radio tour of Rhythm FM Quincy Jones, Naija FM, Amaka , City FM Terra and others. He will be hosting a mini concert this festive season in line with the federal government’s social distancing regulations also headlined the Bez viz Festival in September which was streamed live to thousands of people across the globe. He was due to release his debut music project in October but due to the protests during that period, he had to postpone it to the first quarter of next year. He is very excited about the body of work and wants his fans to expect great sounds off the project.  By Anthony Ada Abraham  