BY NONYE EKWENUGO, Kaduna  The apex northern socio cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has condemned what it descried as endless criminal killings in the north.  In a statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary, Mr Emmanuel Yawe and made available to newsmen, he noted that “In October 2020, the Arewa Consultative Forum, ACF, under the Leadership of Chief Audu
Ogbe held its first National Working Committee NWC and National Executive Committee meetings NEC in two days in Kaduna.  “At both meetings, all states and Local government representatives expressed concern over the levels of insecurity in the local areas they represent all over the North at ACF.  “The Communique the Forum issued at the end of the October meeting where we strongly and pointedly called on President Muhammadu Buhari to give attention to the growing insecurity in the north and the whole
of Nigeria reflects the desperate and exact feelings of the whole
north.  “Sadly since our meeting in October in Kaduna, the security situation is getting worse. There have been serial killings of more people in the north by the bandits whom the Minister of police claimed falsely have been defeated.  “Even as the Minister was claiming falsely, whether in ignorance or deliberate, victory over bandits, 12 Police Superitendents on official duty from Zamfara to Kano were overpowered by superior tactics and
force while driving in a convoy and abducted with a heavy ransom demand on each policeman’s family.  “Apart from that the bandits mounted four road blocks on Kaduna Abuja road whom the police have claimed severally that they have liberated from bandits. News reports by the media speak of many dead and several others taken away by bandits for ransom.  “Nine students of French at Ahmadu Bello University Zaria on Tuesday educational tour were taken away and a whooping ransom of N270 million placed on their head. Three escaped with gunshot wounds.  “The police are now claiming they have been rescued. Given the level of distrust in our security on security forces, we cannot vouch for what happened. These and many other security breaches have become a source of worry to our followers who voted for a government that they thought will secure their lives and property as spelt out in our Constitution,” ACF
said.