BY OLUSHOLA BELLO, Lagos  | May & Baker Nigeria Plc has introduced a new anti-malaria medicine that promises to revolutionise malaria disease treatment in the country. The new drug, named Mallet is a dihydroarteminsin-piperaquine combination-based formulation which ensures fast relief from malaria and guarantees better post treatment protection. With  increasing  resistance  to  older drugs,  the  World  Health  Organisation (WHO) years  back jettisoned Chloroquine and  recommended Artermisinin based  Combination Therapies  (ACTs)  as first  line drug  for the  treatment of uncomplicated malaria. However, most ACTs have since then shown limitations    including resistance to treatment. But    dihydroarteminsin-piperaquine combination,  the  newer artemisinin-based combination  therapy  has  shown  excellent  efficacy  in multiple  trials and  is  considered  the  most promising drug  currently  available  for  the treatment  of uncomplicated malaria. At a media launch of the new anti-malaria product in Lagos, managing director/CEO of May & Baker, Mr Nnamdi  Okafor,  said the introduction of Malact is part of the company’s efforts at  continually  confronting  the  malaria  scourge  by  providing  effective  and  affordable medicines for treatment of the disease. He stated further that Malact is the latest and most effective arsenal in the toolbox for fight against malaria. He said the goal of May & Baker is to continue to be the one-stop-shop for quality antimalarials. Executive director, Pharma sales and marketing of May & Baker, Mr Chukutem Chukuka said, “Malact has a reliable efficacy which guarantees patient faster relief compared to other ACTs currently  available  in  the  market. It also has better post treatment protection because of the piperaquine content that makes it possible for patients not to experience relapse for at least six weeks.  Malact therefore prevents malaria for up to six weeks and prevents recrudescence of malaria.” May & Baker Nigeria remains a key player in the anti-malarial market in Nigeria. According to the World Health organisation, Malaria remains a major  global  health challenge with over 200 million cases annually in Africa. It is responsible for over 100, 000 deaths in Nigeria every year. 