The Deputy Majority Leader and member representing Akoko-Edo Federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Peter Akpatason has given out several empowerment tools worth millions of naira to women, youths and farmers in his constituency. The lawmaker who rolled out the  empowerment tools during the flagging off of an empowerment programme in Akoko-Edo local government area also distributed items including 45 tricycles (keke NAPEP), 65 motorcycles, and a truck load of yam seedlings. Akpatason also inspected, commissioned and flagged off several other projects such as road, bridges, boreholes, maternity health centre, and Akoko-Edo traditional council hall. In addition, the lawmaker is billed to empower 200 women and youths who had received trainings in agro production and export with the sum of N300,000 each to enable them become agriprenuers. Akpatason during the event urged the beneficiaries to judiciously make use of the cash and empowerment tools given to them. According to him,  “the reason for the empowerment programme is to reduce the rate of unemployment among women and youths. In another development, Hon. Peter Akpatason has received commendations for the remarkable achievements he has recorded in the last few years. The commendation came from  Akoko-Edo Traditional Rulers, community leaders and beneficiaries of his empowerment program. The chairman of Akoko-Edo traditional council and Odafe of Ewan community, HRH Oba Peter .O. Okarah, on behalf of other Highnesses, appreciated Comrade Akpatason for the successful completion of the Akoko-Edo Traditional Rulers Council Hall which he described as an edifice. Excited Oba Okarah noted that “Hon. Akpatason has done other marvellous projects in Akoko Edo even as a lawmaker.” This, he appealed to other well meaning sons and daughters of the local government area to emulate the humanitarian gesture of the lawmaker. The Imah IV of Somorica, HRH Oba Alhaji Sule Idiaye, who corroborated the views of the chairman of Akoko-Edo Traditional Council said Hon Akpatason has won the heart of all. In his response, Hon. Peter Akpatason explained that the construction of the town hall was an opportunity to honour and promote the traditional institution. “I have great respect for our traditional Rulers and our culture. And I will always do everything to promote our normal and values,” he assured. The lawmaker also promised to furnish the town hall and provide a functional borehole for the locals.