PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has estimated the financing gap for Nigerian micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to be about N617.3 billion annually pre-COVID-19 pandemic. The PwC made this known in its MSME Survey 2020.  The PwC MSME study report provides insights into a range of issues concerning SMEs in Nigeria, and the challenges impacting business growth, particularly financing, taxation issues and other factors, through the eyes of their CEOs. The objective of the study is to capture the challenges the sector faces, identify opportunities to unlock growth and investment, provide solutions, mitigate risks and assess the outlook for MSMEs across industries. PwC stated that SMEs usually do not have access to bank loans unlike firms; they mostly rely on their own savings or cash from friends and family. According to the International Finance Corporation (IFC), 40 per cent of formal MSMEs in developing countries, experience a finance shortage of $5.2 trillion every year. Lending is usually dependent on the stance of the borrower’s financial position, and analysed historical data about the business. Forty-six per cent of the businesses surveyed pointed to private equity (PE) as the type of funding they would need the most to realise their growth ambitions. The survey which was conducted prior to the COVID-19 pandemic (between August and December 2019), sought the opinion of 1629 key decision makers in the MSME sector surveyed with annual sales turnover ranging from N5 million and above. The businesses surveyed had a geographical spread covering 29 states and across the six geopolitical zones in the country. Presenting results of the findings, partner and lead, Private Wealth Services, PwC Nigeria, Esiri Agbeyi, noted that obtaining finance (22 per cent), finding customers (16 per cent) and Infrastructure deficits (15 per cent) were identified by respondents as their most pressing problems. She stated that “Access to finance, in particular credit, is a critical enabler for the growth and development of small and medium enterprises. The SME credit market, however, is notoriously characterised by market failures and imperfections. “We estimate the financing gap for Nigerian MSMEs to be about N617.3 billion annually (pre-COVID-19 pandemic). More so, based on our analysis of data from the CBN annual statistical bulletin, small businesses accounted for less than one per cent of total commercial banking credit in 2018.” According to Agbeyi, “We also see that electricity accounts for the biggest costs to daily operations of MSMEs. Nigeria’s power sector is overwhelmed by a myriad of challenges that have culminated in inadequate electricity supply. This has an adverse impact on the business environment in Nigeria; consequently, contributing to significant economic costs to SME and economic growth. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) states that lack of access to reliable electricity costs the Nigerian economy an estimated $29 billion a year.” The survey also found that the foremost economic issue affecting small businesses is the pressure to reduce prices, rising inflation and low demand for products/services. The economic recovery in Nigeria has been tepid. Despite positive economic growth in the last three years, Nigeria’s GDP trajectory still falls short of the projections set in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of 4.5 per cent and seven per cent for 2019 and 2020 respectively. On tax matters, 28 per cent MSMEs find local government levies the most difficult tax to comply with. This is closely followed by Company Income Tax (CIT) at 26 per cent and Value Added Tax (VAT) at 25 per cent. PwC is one of the world’s largest providers of assurance, tax, and business consulting services.