Ekiti State Deputy Governor, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, has frowned against wanton disregard of COVID-19 guidelines by the residents, saying they have continued to flout the protocols since the relaxation of lockdown in the state. He dismissed claims in some quarters that drinking local alcoholic liquor popularly known as ‘ogogoro’ or local herbs can prevent Coronavirus. Egbeyemi urged residents of the state to adhere strictly with COVID-19 protocols, personal hygiene by always cleaning their environment in order not to contract the diseases. He made the remarks on Saturday while monitoring the June edition of the monthly environmental sanitation exercise in Ido/Osi Local Government Area. According to a statement by the Special Assistant (Media) to the Deputy Governor, Odunayo Ogunmola, Egbeyemi was joined during the exercise by the Head of Service, Mrs. Peju Babafemi; Chairman of Ido/Osi Local Government, Mr. Ayodimeji Adeola and other senior government functionaries. Egbeyemi, who stopped over at Ayetoro, Usi and Ido to enlighten residents on COVID-19, enjoined them to always wear their face masks, wash their hands regularly, avoid crowded areas and observe social distancing so as not to fall victims of the disease. The state number two citizen said it was unfortunate for some individuals, especially the youths, to believe that drinking Ogogoro can prevent COVID-19 maintaining that only obedience to the rules can prevent the same. Describing the belief that ogogoro can prevent COVID-19 as a fallacy, Egbeyemi urged residents to key into the Dr. Kayode Fayemi administration’s strategy to defeat the disease and ensure a healthy populace in Ekiti. Egbeyemi who advised youths against indulging in drug abuse also charged them to always deploy their energy to participation in the monthly environmental sanitation as a form of community service. He said: “COVID-19 is real and we have heard about many people it has killed including very distinguished and prominent Nigerians who contracted the disease but didn’t survive it. “Let’s follow COVID-19 rules and protocols of regular hand washing, wearing of face masks, avoiding crowds and observance of physical and social distancing. “Drinking ogogoro or local herbs can’t prevent COVID-19, having such belief is a fallacy. Let’s obey all the rules including wearing face masks which many people have abandoned since the lockdown was relaxed, it is for our own good.”