There is anxiety in the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over impending mass defection as the faction of the party loyal to Governor Godwin Obaseki yesterday endorsed his defection from the ruling party. Members of the Obasaki camp in the party implored the governor to move to any other platform to seek his second term ambition in the September governorship poll. The resolve of the faction came after a marathon meeting yesterday between the governor and the APC leaders in an apparent move to chart a new political direction following his disqualification from participating in the party’s primaries last Friday by the APC screening committee. Immediately after his screening in Abuja, Obaseki had expressed fears that he would not get justice from the process as long as the party’s national chairman and his estranged political godfather, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, remained an interested party in the exercise. Following his disqualification on Friday, the governor subsequently declared that he won’t appeal his disqualification by the screening committee, setting the stage for his plans to dump the party. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that Obaseki met with political leaders and strategists from the three senatorial districts in the state who assured him of their support for his return bid. A source at the meeting told our correspondent that the governor used the opportunity to inform his supporters of plans to seek the PDP Governorship ticket which received ovation and applause. The source who did not want his name in print said, “We gave Obaseki, in clear terms, the mandate to seek the ticket of any political party to contest the governorship election. We told him that any platform he wants to contest he will win the governorship election. “The only issues prior to the meeting had to do with him running his deputy governor but thank God that was also resolved. Phillip Shaibu is running with governor”. After the caucus meeting, the governor it was learnt, made plans to travel to Abuja to continue talks with the leadership of the PDP. However, two of the three PDP aspirants, Kenneth Imasuagbon and Ogbeide Ihama, are said to be resisting possible moves by the party leadership to offer its platform to the embattled governor without a proper primaries. It was learnt that the two aspirants are insistent that the party leadership must allow all aspirants test their popularity at the primaries. Obaseki’s Candidature Would Have Crippled APC In Edo, Says Oshiomhole’s Camp Meanwhile, the faction loyal to the APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday said Obaseki’s disqualification from participating in the primary election scheduled for June 22 has saved the ruling party from a major defeat in the coming governorship election. In a statement released yesterday, the leaders in Edo State noted that the decision of the party has saved APC from collapse, saying there is wide jubilation in the state over the good news of Obaseki’s disqualification. Explaining why Obaseki’s candidature would have been a “major disaster” in the coming election, some chieftains of the party in the state revealed in the statement that there was no way the governor could be trusted with a second term. They alleged that the Obaseki-led government had made life difficult and almost unbearable for party members and Edo people in the last three and half years. In the statement signed by Benson Edosonman  (Edo South  Senatorial Leader), Chief  Francis  Inegbeniki  ( Edo  Central senatorial Leader), Chief Simon  Omofuma LEADER), Hon David  Iyoha (former  Speaker, Edo House of Assembly), Hon Thomas  Okosun  (Former chairman of ACN, and former Speaker); Mrs Elizabeth Ativie  (former Speaker), Prince  Malik Afegbua (member  APC, BOT) and Washington Osifo  (member elect, Edo Assembly), they accused the governor of maltreatment, illegal arrests and detention of chieftains and arrogant posturing in managing the affairs of the state. The statement noted: “Those who are complaining about the disqualification of Godwin Obaseki don’t know what is happening in Edo State. The wide and huge jubilation that greeted the decision of the party on Friday is a testimony to the fact that majority of our party members are happy with the party. “A candidature of Godwin Obaseki would have led to our party’s major defeat in the September governorship election. Here was a man who said that our national chairman and his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, must take permission from him before entering the state. “Here was a man with his many atrocities, who refused to inaugurate 14 APC members of House of Assembly, stated arrogantly that his second term was not negotiable. It would have been a disaster if he was allowed to contest election under our party.” The party stalwarts also blamed the governor for the attack on state lawmakers by suspected thugs loyal to the state government, sacking of eight commissioners and special advisers loyal to Oshiomhole. They also accused Obasaki of being behind the litigation against the nomination of former Deputy Governor Pius Odubu as Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) chairman, as well as illegal removal of council chairmen. The statement also alleged that Obaseki sealed up the hotel belonging to one of the party’s youth leaders, Comrade Osakpomwan Eriyo, adding that he also ordered the seizure of his working equipment, including caterpillars and excavators. Still explaining the “many sins” of Governor Obaseki, the leaders alleged that on December 3 last year, Obaseki ordered that the seats of 14 state lawmakers-elect should be declared vacant, advising INEC to conduct by-elections to fill the positions. The statement also claimed that the governor also banned political rallies and gatherings by threatening to revoke certificates of occupancy of venues hosting such gatherings.  Appeal Committee Upholds Obaseki’s Disqualification Meanwhile, the Screening Appeal Committee of the APC has upheld the disqualification of Governor Godwin Obaseki disqualification. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the committee cited discrepancies in the dates on Obaseki’s University of Ibadan certificate. It would be recalled that the screening committee had on Friday announced the disqualification of the Edo state governor, Godwin Obaseki, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi and Matthew Iduoriyekemewen. However, Pastor Eze-Iyamu, Dr Pius Odubu, and Osaro Obazee got the committee’s nod. The appeal committee led by Dr Abubakar Fari presented its report to the National Working Committee yesterday at the APC national secretariat in Abuja. While presenting the committee’s report, Fari said, “It is inconceivable that the same University will award two certificates with separate dates for the same graduate. “We also find it difficult to vouch for the authenticity of his NYSC certificate, there is no indication as to where he served”.