KABIR WURMA in this report writes on the renewed efforts by Kebbi State Government to revamp and reposition tourism in the state for social-economic development Nigeria is the most populated country in Africa and has become an untapped tourist paradise with long stretches of exotic beaches, lush mountains, well-preserved tradition and culture and enchanting attractions that can draw tourists from different parts of the world to the country. Prior to the emergence of raging global Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic the nation has witnessed a spike in the number of tourists coming to see the sights of the most populated black nation. It is also noteworthy that, diversifying the nation’s economy cannot be more timely, apt, and relevant than now when the world has been enmeshed in series of economic quagmire of recession, especially occasioned by the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The truth is the income that can accrue to a nation from tourism if properly harnessed can effectively bail it out in rainy days, especially now that efforts are geared towards the diversification of the economy from over-dependence on oil to a more robust one, which is premised on other non-oil sources like agriculture, tourism and other related vibrant sources. The World Travel and Tourism Council, described tourism as one of the world’s largest economic sectors, supporting one in 10 jobs (319 million) worldwide and generating 10.4 per cent of world GDP. As at 2018, Dubai, an oil-producing country like Nigeria had a GDP of $102.67 billion, derives less than one per cent of its GDP on oil and about 20 per cent was contributed by tourism. Although oil was previously Dubai’s main source of revenue, it ventured into exploring the tourism industry, which has been beneficial to the growth of its economy. Today, Dubai has focused its economy on tourism by building hotels and developing real estate. However, to make Kebbi state a tourism haven, all hands are currently on deck by the Kebbi state governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu-led administration which has made a bold step to diversify the economy of the state and halt the over-dependence on oil revenues to a more robust and efficacious reliable and sustainable sources like agriculture and tourism. To achieve this, Governor Bagudu’s preoccupation remains the even socio-economic development of the ‘Land of Equity’. He has also remained steadfast in his gigantic move to revive the abundant tourism potentials of the state. Apart from the various beautiful and budding tourism sites in Kebbi state, there a lot of annual cultural events across the state that attract tourists from within and outside the country to the state. Governor Bagudu has since 2015 to date given top priorities to these cultural events. For instance, after over a decade of dormancy, the famous Argungu Fishing Festival in Kebbi State was successfully revived and hosted in March, 2020. Historically, Argungu Fishing Festival dates back to the reign of Sultan of Sokoto, Hassan Dan Muazu in 1934 when the then Emir of Argungu, Sarkin Kabi Muhammadu Sama hosted the Sultan and organised a grand fishing for him as part of efforts to foster peace and unity between the Fulanis and Kabawa after years of a fierce battle between the duo. Since that time, the event continued to prosper year after year with successive government regimes in Kebbi State introducing innovations to tally with modernity. Other events featured during the festival include local boxing, wrestling, bow and arrow shooting, hunting, songs, dancing, Agricultural show and animal race. Apart from the Kabanci display (featuring of water sports), canoe racing, polo, car racing, motorcycle racing, bicycle racing and beauty pageant were among the events introduced with private companies like Peugeot Automobile, MTN, banks as sponsors. Hundreds of millions of naira were approved and timely released by Governor Bagudu. During the festival, President Muhammadu Buhari, the Senate President, governors and a host of other notable distinguished personalities and guests, from within and outside Nigeria, thronged Argungu to witnessed the event. It is not out of place to say hundreds of thousands of guests from across Nigeria and beyond its shores also attended the 2020 edition. Another important crucial annual cultural event is the Rigata Cultural Festival in Yauri. The Kebbi state governor vowed that his administration would continue to support the annual Rigata Cultural Festival in Yauri until it attains international recognition and standard. The Yauri Rugatta Festival (originally Yauri Boat Regatta Festival), started about two hundred years ago when a flotilla of boats carrying warriors used to protect bridal trains from wild animals in the river, as they (bridal trains) move from one island to another in the ancient Kingdom. The governor who made this while delivering his speech during the closing ceremony 2020 edition of the annual cultural festival in Yauri, played host to many important dignitaries such as Speaker of House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajamiamila and minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Senators, House of Representative members, representatives of the Sultan, Emirs of Gwandu, Argungu, Yauri, Zuru and Kontagora, among others. Another beautiful cultural festival in the state is the Uhola festival of Zuru land. According to the Emir of Zuru, His Royal Highness, rtd Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Sani Sami, Sami Gomo II, the Uhola cultural festival was the number one festival event of Zuru emirate marked after harvest of the crops by farmers of the area to show thanks and gratitude to God for a bountiful harvest, as well as God’s protection against evil forces that come along with diseases, wars and lean harvest. During the Uhola cultural festival youths in the area undergo a transition ceremony from childhood to adulthood which qualifies them to have a wife after they perform rites. They proceed to work/farm for seven years in the farms of their in-laws. As usual with the tradition of the Uhola festival, every community from the five chiefdoms of the emirate took part in the merriment of the main Uhola event which is the grand finale. However, each of the five emirates: Dabai, Danko, Fakai, Sakaba and Wasagu held their separate mini Uhola festivals in their communities before coming for the main Uhola one in Zuru where the emir resides. The festival is normally held around December/January in all towns and villages around the Zuru area and other adjoining villages. The festival takes two to three days of colourful events such as dances, music, wrestling, the exhibition of works of art and crafts. It holds in the ancient cities of Zuru area. During the festival, the local populace moved to the ancient city which is normally situated in a hilly area, because of defence against invaders. The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu said the state government was keen to develop the annual Uhola cultural festival to serve as an avenue for generating revenue to the tourism sector in the state. The Governor added: “The state government is supporting all the festivals in the state such as the Rigatta boat festival in Yauri, Hutungo Fulani festival and the more widely known Argungu international fishing festival.” Bagudu further promised that his administration would continue to support the Uhola festival because the festival according to him will build mutual respect amongst people of the state and promote unity. He also opined that by the beginning of the 2018 academic session, some primary schools in the state would begin to teach C’lela language of Zuru people. Another important cultural event in the tourism calendar in Kebbi State is the Hutungo, the pinnacle of Fulani Cultural festivals in the State. The festival annually attracts tourists from within and outside the country. Fulanis are one of the major tribes in Kebbi State, who are dominant in Suru, Bagudo, Bunza, Maiyama, Kalgo and Birnin Kebbi local governments. It is celebrated by the Fulani to mark the end of the raining season, as well as the safe return of their livestock from the southern parts of the country. Kirya, a small village located close to Dakingari town, Suru local government area is the host village for Huttongo festival. Fulanis from the state, across Nigeria, Niger, Benin, Mali and Togo, among others, always attend the yearly colourful event. The event features activities such as archery, ram fattening, camel racing, decorations and Sharo (beating with sticks), cultural dances, singing and drama. It culminates o sheep race the main event. Another fascinating feature of the festival is the cultural dance exhibited by the Fulani girls, astonishingly decorated. Governor Bagudu during the festival urged the Fulani people to live peacefully with the farmers in the state. He further promised to continue to support the routine staging of the festival, even as he promised to promote it.