The Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai, has expressed satisfaction, and commended the level of achievements and transformation within one year by the director general, Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DG-DICON), Major General V.O. Ezugwu. He said with the pace of development seen so far, Nigeria is on the path of attaining self-sufficiency in military armaments and hardwares. The COAS stated this on 25th June 2020, during the one-year anniversary of Maj Gen Victor Ezugwu as the DG DICON, in the premises of the corporation, Kaduna. In a statement by the acting director, army public relations, Col Sagir Musa, Buratai said the Nigerian Army has made sufficient investment in support of DICON to accelerate research and development in local production of weaponry and assorted military equipment. He reiterated that the collaborative efforts and result oriented partnership between DICON and Command Engineering Depot, Kaduna, has achieved tremendous successes in repairs and production of vehicles and weapons for troops at different theaters of operations in Nigeria. He said the ingenuity has not only boosted the morale and fighting spirit of troops, but has also saved the country huge resources on importation of arms, ammunition and other military hardwares/equipment. Buratai, who was conducted round the newly rejuvenated factories and some production lines where he inspected some products and materials produced by DICON, opined that with the level of progress of work and the zealousness of DICON Staff, Nigeria will soon start the production of helicopters and jet fighters. He expressed appreciation to the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for his numerous supports and directions, while also reassuring him of unflinching loyalty, resolve and determination of the Nigerian Army to combat the myriads of security threats in Nigeria within the shortest time possible. Applauding the quality leadership of DICON, he urged the management and the entire staff to redouble their efforts with utmost dedication and selfless disposition to assigned responsibilities. In a related development, Gen Buratai also inspected multiple ongoing projects in Jaji Military Cantonment, where he performed the ground breaking for the construction of Polo Club House and Stable for Infantry Polo Club. He also planted a tree at Infantry Zoological Gardens in Jaji.