Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed has said the nation’s power sector will soon be on a sustainable recovery path when all initiated projects get all necessary approvals and implementation becomes fully operational. After highlighting the challenges that have bedeviled the Nigerian power sector, the minister said the federal government has initiated several projects in conjunction with its development partners to revamp the power sector. The minister made the remarks in her opening remarks at the senate investigative hearing on the power sector recovery plan recently. Mrs Ahmed said the initiatives are work in progress with the World Bank, African Development Bank (AfDB), French Development Agency (AFD), and China-Exim Bank among others. The projects include: Nigeria Electricity Transmission and Access Project – $486 million World Bank – Approved; Nigeria Electrification Project – $350 million (World Bank) and $200 million African Development bank (AfDB) – undergoing approval processes; North Core Dorsale Nord Interconnector Project – $26 million World Bank Regional – undergoing approval processes; Abuja Power Feeding Scheme – $170 million – AFD undergoing approval processes; Power Sector Recovery Program for Results (World Bank) – $750 million – ongoing approval processes;  and Zungeru 700MW Hydro-Power Project – $984,323,013.08 (China EXIM Bank) – Approval. She stated that most of the above listed programs are part of the Power Sector Recovery Program “which is designed to restore the financial viability of Nigeria’s power sector, improve transparency and service delivery, resolve consumer complaints, reduce losses and energy theft and reset the Nigerian electricity supply industry for future growth. The first part of the PSRP has recently been negotiated and expected to commence implementation once all necessary conditions and procedures have been met. “These interventions are all made possible due to the role of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning as the borrower and are at various stages of implementation,” she said further. Speaking on outcome of the transition of the key components of the power sector from a publicly owned to largely privately owned, Ahmed said it did not bring the expected outcomes and the sector has been under a lot of stress, especially in terms of liquidity. The challenges in the sector include: distribution companies on the average currently report only about 40 percent of Aggregated Technical and Commercial Losses; Tariff regulation and all market contracts have not been enforced since privatisation; and federal government has been spending billions to fund tariff shortfalls and its liabilities are increasing steadily every year. On the expected contributions by the stakeholders, the Minister said: “Key stakeholders in the sector all fell short of expected contributions for achieving the desired turnaround envisaged by the reform initiatives. We are of the view that another level of reform process is required to develop an integrated approach for resolving regulatory and policy failures, establish a fiscally sustainable financing plan by the federal government to ensure full funding for tariff shortfalls and implementation of a comprehensive performance improvement plans. According to chairman Senate Committee on Power, Dr Gabriel Suswan, the federal government has spent over N1.5 trillion between 2013 and 2014 to support the power sector. But there is no tangible result. In his words: “It is unacceptable that the government is still sourcing funds for the project when results have not shown; the earlier commitments have not borne fruit. The National Assembly needs to review and investigate the process and all the institutions involved to find out how to resolve the issues. 