Many people do not know what precipitated calcium carbonate (PCC) is, what it is used for and the potential benefits nations derive from harnessing this useful raw material. In this write up by NKECHI ISAAC, she highlights how Nigeria lost N18billion from the importation of this raw material in four years and plans by the Federal Government to plug this leakage through local production. Globally, the precipitated calcium carbonate (PCC) market is mainly driven by growing demand for the paper industry. Paper industry accounts for nearly 43.81 per cent of total downstream consumption of PCC globally.  In terms of value, plastic is projected to be the fastest-growing end-use industry of calcium carbonate.  This is due to the increasing demand for calcium carbonate-reinforced polypropylene from the automotive industry and the ability of calcium carbonate to enhance the properties of plastics and help in improved heat dissipation. Also, the increasing use of plastics in various end-use industries such as packaging, building and construction, and electrical and electronics has increased the demand for plastics. These factors contribute to the growth of the precipitated calcium carbonate market in the plastic industry. In a recent chat with LEADERSHIP, the chairman of pulp and paper group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Princess Okeowo described PCC as an innovative product, derived from lime, which has many industrial applications, saying PCC’s unique particle size shapes improve capacity and allow reductions in titanium dioxide levels in paint, adding it has versatile application in emulsion paints, architectural finishes, traffic paint, industrial primers and undercoats in rubbers. She pointed to its wide usage in high value rubber products, stating it is also useful in health applications, adding PCC is an effective acid neutralizer and it enables the formulation of high dosage calcium supplements and multi-vitamin/mineral tablets. “In paper industry, PCC is well established as a filler and coating pigment for premium quality paper products.  PCC enhances optical properties and print characteristics of paper products and improves paper machine productivity,” she said. Giving a global outlook of the PCC sector, Okeowo said it stood at $3760 million in 2019 and was expected to reach a proposed sum of $3930 million in 2024 and a 0.7 per cent CAGR in the next five years. According to her, the PPC requirement in Nigeria is currently met mainly through importation despite the abundance of the raw material for its local production. Buttressing her point, the director-general of the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC), Prof. Hussaini Doko Ibrahim, asserted that Nigeria lost over N18 billion in capital flight on the importation of precipitated calcium carbonate for use in various industries, most especially, the paint, plastic, pharmaceuticals and paper industries between 2014 and 2918. He said the nation spent approximately 52,000MT of PCC which was imported at an absolute cost of 7 billion naira in 2018, describing it as a great and inexplicable drain on the Nigerian economy, considering the fact that the major raw material required for the production is limestone/ marble. The RMRDC boss pointed out that Nigeria has an estimated reserve of limestone/marble in excess of over one billion metric tons scattered in different parts of the country, adding while limestone deposit is mainly found in Cross River and Ebonyi, its deposits have also been reported in commercial quantities in Benue, Ogun, Kogi and Akwa Ibom, Ondo, Sokoto, Borno, Enugu, Imo, Bauchi and Abia states. He maintained that in view of the high cost of the importation of PCC to the economy, its high demand in critical industries and the high level of availability of limestone in Nigeria, there was no justification for Nigeria as a nation to depend solely on PCC importation, adding the council collaborated with the National Research Institute for Chemical Technology (NARICT), Zaria, to address the issue of import dependency on PCC as a result of this. Ibrahim said RMRDC undertook the development of pilot plant of PCC as utmost priority with the objective to design, develop and fabricate a pilot plant for the production of precipitated calcium carbonate from quicklime and sodium carbonate. He explained that the pilot plant had been successfully constructed, test run and is currently efficiently running at the capacity of 158kg per day, adding work is ongoing to increase the capacity to 2 tonnes per day. The council, according to him, is currently in talks with investors on the commercialization of the plant. It is also collaborating with GAMLA and Brewtech Nigeria Limited to establish a lime processing plant in Kogi State in order to ensure sustainable supply of raw materials, he further pointed out. “As the economic reform and efforts to diversify the economy continues, the council hopes to promote the establishment of this plant in various areas while limestone is mined in appreciable quantities. Thus, we are willing to promote this investment in the various states where the project can be profitably established. It is estimated that if the project is fully commercialized and four of the plants established, the country can be able to achieve the present national demand for PCC. It is also estimated that about 500 jobs (direct and indirect) could be created through the establishment of this plant in viable areas. One of the major investors that have shown interest is Minaret Ind. Ltd, Abuja who is ready to take over the project and due process is being followed,” he added. 