The director-general of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh has said that  the federal government was putting final touches to arrangements for the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF). Dr Jamoh while reeling out achievements of his 100 days in office in Lagos over the weekend, revealed that operators in the maritime industry would soon begin to access the fund. The CVFF has reigned over $200 million since inception. “Through the Federal Ministry of Transportation, we are working to ensure the disbursement of the CVFF. We believe that other sectors, like manufacturing and aviation, have leveraged on this sort of incentive to grow and that is the reason we are also looking in that direction.” On the question of incentives for the maritime sector, Jamoh stated, “We have made proposals to President Muhammadu Buhari through the Honourable Minister of Transportation, Rt. Honourable Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, for approval to grant different kinds of incentives that would help us grow the industry.” Jamoh also spoke on the Nigerian Seafarers Development Programme (NSDP), saying it is being redesigned to make it more effective. He also expressed delight in the changing international opinion on safety and security in Nigerian waters, as seen in a recent congratulatory letter by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) to Nigeria for its zeal to make the country’s waters safe and secure. He said fighting crime with intelligence and technology has been the hallmark of his administration in the battle against piracy since it came on board three months ago, adding that he has set a one year target to return Nigeria back to the exclusive White List of the IMO. The White List is a list of countries assessed by the IMO as properly implementing the STCW-95 (Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) convention which is key to his administration. He appealed to the media to ensure adequate and fair reportage of the activities of NIMASA, Nigeria’s maritime industry regulatory agency, in order to properly inform and educate the public, noting that the sector had the potential to exponentially grow the Nigerian economy, given its enormous flora and fauna, besides mineral resources and shipping activities. Jamoh, who launched a three-point agenda focused on Maritime Safety, Maritime Security, and Shipping Development with the acronym 3S, on assumption of office, stated that, “Collapsing our agenda into security, safety and shipping development has given us a bird’s-eye view of the challenges inherent in our sector. “Our strategy of nipping piracy in the bud is yielding positive fruit and that is why the Navy and the Police have arrested a total of 27 suspected pirates in the last two months. Our findings have revealed that these criminals work with the cooperation of international allies and that is what makes them sophisticated. “We have set out to tackle them through intelligence gathering and collaboration with relevant stakeholders. Our recent arrests have shown the international community that we are not handling illegalities in our waters with kid gloves.” According to the NIMASA DG, “There are two key performance indicators (KPIs) that we have set for ourselves, Firstly, Nigeria has to be back on the White List of the IMO. This is a target that I have set for myself in my four years as DG NIMASA. Hopefully, by the end of next year, I will like to see Nigeria back on the IMO White List. This is our number one target in NIMASA. “Our second target has to do with the IMO Category C seat. We can only be relevant in the committee of maritime nations if we have seat in the IMO Council. By November next year, Nigeria has to be back on the IMO Category C seat. Nigeria has given me four years to actualise these things, but I have set for myself November next year to ensure these things are actualised.” The NIMASA boss also cautioned international oil companies (IOCs) warning any of their staff caught fuelling sea piracy on the nation’s waters will be dealt with fully. On the recently arrested maritime pirates, the NIMASA DG stated that by next week, the arrested pirates will be arraigned in court. “This is a test case for the workability of the Anti-piracy law. “The international community is currently focused on us to see what we will do with the arrested pirates, whether we will let them go scot-free. This is the concern of the international community now, and we will make sure we don’t disappoint,” he said adding that his agency is gathering information on staff of IOCs involved in sea piracy. Reacting at the 100 days in office briefing, the president, Nigerian Guild of Editors, Mustapha Isah, said the media was willing to support NIMASA to achieve its mandate. He said the success of the agency was vital to the whole country, urging his colleagues to give more attention to maritime in their reports. NIMASA and the Nigerian Navy have recently been getting commendations for their efforts to ensure security in the country’s territorial waters and the Gulf of Guinea.