Fulfilling its obligation to its customers, NEM Insurance Plc says it paid a gross claims of N7.4 billion to its policyholders who suffered risk exposures in its 2019 financial year end. This represents a 22.7 per cent increase to N6.01 billion claims paid in 2018 financial year, even as the gross claims ratio was 2.7 per cent lower than that of the previous period of 2018, while the claim ratio for 2019 was 37.3 per cent, that of 2018 was 40 per cent. Similarly, the net claims expenses of N3.9 billion incurred in 2019 was 54.1 per cent higher than that of the preceding period which recorded N2.6 billion. The net claims ratio for the period under review was 31.2 per cent as against that of 2018 that was 23.9 per cent, an increase of 7.3 per cent. Moreover, the insurer declared a dividend of 15 kobo per 50 kobo ordinary shares to its teeming shareholders. While the group’s Profit After Tax (PAT) for the preceding period was N2.04 billion, the sum of N2.4 billion was recorded in the reporting period; an increase of 17.6 per cent. The parent company also recorded an increase of 17.7 per cent PAT over the preceding period. That is, N2.38 billion was generated in 2019 against N2.02 billion in 2018. There were also increases of N1.08 billion, N3.25 billion and N1.67 billion in the group’s financial assets, total assets and total equity respectively. Similarly, the parent company had increases of N1.08 billion; N3.23 billion and N1.66 billion in Financial Assets, Total assets and Total Equity respectively. Briefing shareholders at a virtual annual general meeting (AGM) in Lagos last week, the Group chairman, Dr. Fidelis Ayebae, hinged the impressive performance of the group to hard work and commitment to professionalism, adding that, staff were equally motivated to perform optimally well. According to him, during the period under review, over 92 per cent of its employees were sent on various local and international trainings to enhance performance as all necessary work tools were provided for staff along with a conducive environment with a further motivation of promotions for deserving staff who performed excellently well during the year. In addition to this, quarterly awards were given to best staff in each department. Inclusive also, was the annual awards to staff in various areas of performances, he said. Speaking on 2020 Business Outlook, he said, since the coronavirus outbreak in the country, NEM is also actively assessing and responding where possible to its potential impact on the company’s business, saying, the focus has been on the safety of its personnel, ensuring the continuity of access to its products by its clients and also efficient service delivery. “As the situation continues to be very dynamic, the company has been working diligently to assess the potential risks posed by COVID-19 to its business on an ongoing basis and to realign its strategies accordingly,” he pointed out. Meanwhile, the group managing director of the underwriting firm, Mr Tope Smart, applauded the firm’s esteemed brokers and clients who have entrusted it with their businesses, saying, ‘Our board has remained our pillar of strength. The board has continued to provide strategic direction for our operations for which I am grateful.’ Thanking staff who have continued to deliver exceptional service in order to meet the needs of the customers, he also applauded shareholders for their trust and confidence in the company, while restating the company’s commitment towards delivering superior value to them. With a very strong foundation and brand reputation, we are well positioned to move to the next level even as we continue to delight all our stakeholders, he stressed.  