…As Parties Settle Out-of-Court A Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt presided over by Hon. Justice Emmanuel Obile, has struck out the suit filed by a governorship aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State, Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama seeking to stop Governor Godwin Obaseki from participating in the party’s governorship primary election scheduled to hold on June 25, 2020. The Court had Wednesday morning stood down for three hours, hearing on the suit after counsel to the plaintiff prayed the court to grant the parties four hours to conclude meeting on reconciliatory moves by PDP leaders. Obirh informed the court that the process of out-of-court settlement had commenced within the party and expressed hope that within the period they would report back to the court. Justice Emmanuel Obile, granted the prayers of the plaintiff’s counsel to enable the parties resolve their terms of settlement. Obile, who had frowned at the four hours stand down period, ordered that the parties in the suit take three hours to document their terms of settlement and inform the court and adjourned till 12.30pm for decision on the matter. When the Court resumed at exactly 2:00pm, which was one hour and 30 minutes after the scheduled resumption time, the lead counsel to the plaintiff, Donald Den-Nwigwe, informed the Court of their intention to withdraw the suit following the settlement of the matter by PDP leaders. Speaking with newsmen outside the court, PDP national legal adviser, Emmanuel Enoidem, said the development following the resolution of the matter that led to the legal action. Enoidem said: “We came here to do a matter that stated two days ago, precisely on June 22, from Edo State, which has to do with the governorship primaries of our great party, the PDP. One of the aspirants came here to get an order. “But, because it is a family thing, the family sat down throughout last night and by early this morning, we came to an understanding that as a party, we must remain united. “The plaintiff in the matter, in the interest of the party; as a faithful party man, has agreed to withdraw the case from Court. So, what that means is that Governor Obaseki, who joined our party last week, is going to be an aspirant in tomorrow’s party primaries.” 