The federal government has taken delivery of a modernB Boeing737-NG Full Flight Simulator (FFS) to be installed later at theN NigerianCollege of Aviation Technology (NCAT) in Zaria, Kaduna State. The minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, disclosed this
development yesterday, during a television programme, while analyzing
the strides of Nigeria’s aviation industry in the last five years. Sirika said the equipment is “now at the Lagos seaport going through
Custom clearing process and that it will be taken to NCAT in Zaria for
installation”. The minister said, “As we speak the simulator is at the seaport in
Lagos, we are clearing it, the housing component which would house the
sim has been built and it will be on its way to Zaria for installation
and training would commence.” Confirming the minister’s stance, Capt. Abdulsalami Mohammed, the
Rector of NCAT said, “It is true, what the honourable minister said.
The new simulator is at the seaport in Lagos waiting to be cleared and
the installation will be done soon in the college.” Earlier in the year when the Minister and NCAT Rector and some other
officials were at the CAE, the manufacturer’s facility in Montreal to
inspect the equipment (Boeing 737-NG Full Flight Simulator),  Sirika
said the installation of the equipment is going to reduce drastically
the difficulty of the airlines in the country taking their pilots for
recurrent and type-rating training outside the country. “This we know is costing our operators a lot, hence one of the reasons
this development is dear to our hearts. The airlines do not need to go
through the rigour of securing visas, no huge air ticket fares among
others. “The school also will have more income and students willing to acquire
type-rating can do so without going outside the country. As a matter
of fact, the coming of the simulator will bring a lot to the school,”
said Sirika. Capt. Abdulsalami further added that “we appreciate the effort of our
minister who is driving all of these. Our attainment of the
International Civil Aviation Organisation Regional Training Centre of
Excellence status is being utilized. 2020 will witness a lot of
activities in the history of NCAT. ” The multipurpose firefighting simulator is presently installed in
the college; the delivery of the six diamond training aircraft is
taking place and the installation of the B737-NG simulator is about to
happen too.”