The Sir Emeka Offor Foundation (SEOF) donated medical equipment and supplies worth $380,000 to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital(UITH) in Kwara state. It also donated 100 hospital beds with matresses, bedside cupboards and accessories. The foundation’s gesture was aimed at mitigating the challenges of COVID-19 pandemic in the hospital.
.
Presenting the materials to the hospital in Ilorin, Chief of Staff to Sir Emeka Offor Foundation, Mr. Chris Okey Ezike(AIG rtd.) said the foundation’s aim is to reduce poverty and create life improving economic opportunities for those residing in Nigeria’s marginalised communities through education, health care services, youth empowerment programmes and infrastructural development. “In 2020, we started medical equipment distribution as an intervention programme and we are proud to be in partnership with Savannah Center for Diplomacy, Democracy and Development that graciously nominated the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital as beneficiaries of our medical equipment distribution programme for 2020. “Today, we are donating a consignment of 40ft container load of medical equipment /supplies valued at about $380,000(Three hundred and Eighty Thousand USD). “We shall also be donating to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, one hundred(100) hospital beds with mattresses, bedside cupboards and accessories as our modest contribution in furtherance of the call by the federal government of Nigeria for humanitarian assistance in order to mitigate the challenges of Covid-19 pandemic. “Since government alone cannot undertake health and human services, our foundation would also continue to be up and doing to support health institutions so as to take health care delivery to the doorsteps of the rural communities in the country,” he added. Ezike who urged the management of UITH to use the equipment for the purposes they are meant for said that, “the consignment is not meant to be sold, resold or exchanged for profit or gain and therefore this consignment has no commercial value”. The Chief Medical Director of UITH, Professor Abdullah Yusuf thanked the foundation for its kind gesture, assuring it of judicious utilization of the medical equipment.