The spokesman of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere has said his arrest by the police was unlawful and illegal. Recall that he was arrested by the police last Thursday and was released on Tuesday. According to him, in a statement, after his arrest, he was shown a petition authored by the Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and the clerk of the House of Representatives forwarding a resolution of the House where the Police was directed to arrest him. The CUPP spokesman explained that this followed comments he made about the shady attempt to pass the Control of Infectious Diseases Bill. He explained “However before my arrest and abduction which had no warrant of arrest, I had challenged the setting up of a kangaroo ad hoc Committee by the Speaker against whom I made the comments as the law forbids him to be a judge in his own case and the conduct of the Henry Nwawuba Committee which sat and purported to have concluded its investigations without ever inviting me and the Committee sat only once in public. “The both Courts granted certain orders including restraining the Police in clear terms from arresting or detaining me in any manner or give effect to the very resolution of the House which had been forwarded to the Police Inspector General. Despite that these orders were served on the House and the Police, they both in flagrant disobedience authored the petition and arrested me. “When I was asked to make my cautionary statement by the Police I wrote that there was a valid and subsisting order of court which I would not aid them to violate as their act of arresting me was unlawful and illegal. He also restated his commitment to the struggle for the liberation of Nigeria saying “this illegal detention is one of the numerous benefits of being a soldier of truth and apostle of the rule of law. “ It is on this note that I wish to inform you of the formal commencement of public interest actions to ensure accountability and uphold good leadership both at the executive and legislature,” he added. 