Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, a leading indigenous manufacturer and distributor of medicine, surgical equipment and medical supplies joins Nigerians to celebrate the country’s Democracy Day, celebrated every 12th of June. The company believes Democracy is ideal for nations, and Nigeria as a Nation has made major strides since its adoption and return to democracy. Preceding June 6th, 2018, Nigeria celebrated its Democracy Day annually on May 29th. This marked the day the military handed over power to an elected civilian government in 1999, heralding the beginning of the longest and continuous civilian rule since Nigeria’s independence from colonialists in 1960. It is a tradition that has been kept annually, beginning in year 2000. However, to commemorate the democratic election of MKO Abiola on June 12, 1993, in what has been adjudged to be Nigeria’s freest and fairest election yet, Nigeria’s Democracy Day is now celebrated annually every 12th of June. Emzor Pharmaceutical in a statement released in Lagos, on June 12 2020, recognized that Nigeria has made notable strides and achievements since its return to the democratic system of government in 1999. The country despite going through various interruptions in her democratic journey has stayed bent on enthroning democracy. This persistence has seen Nigeria remain a democratic nation for over 20 year since the military handed over power to civilian government. This they believe is part of what lays the right foundation for business as well as economic growth. The company also seized the opportunity to re-emphasize its commitment to its “Wellocracy” mantra, a term which represents its vision of an ideal Nation where: Unlimited Wellness is Available to All and Affordable by All. Commenting on the Democracy Day celebration; Kunle Faloye, the Marketing Manager of Emzor Pharmaceuticals said “We believe democracy is a system that guarantees the right and existence of all citizens, that is why we are joining Nigerians to celebrate our democracy and how far we have come. Today is an opportunity to recall that democracy is about people, it is built on inclusion, equal treatment and participation — and it is a fundamental building block for peace, sustainable development and human rights. Therefore, we seize this opportunity to reiterate our commitment to democratizing wellness for all Nigerians and Africans, a promise which drives our “Wellocracy” mantra.  Wellocracy describes how we represent our vision of an ideal Nation where: Unlimited Wellness is Available to All and Affordable by All” Emzor pharmaceutical Industries Limited is an indigenous multi-billion-naira pharmaceutical group of companies, established in 1977 and currently operating across Africa. The group, in addition to other products and services, manufactures over 140 pharmaceutical products and medical consumables including analgesics, vitamins, haematinics, anti-malarials, anti-tussives, antibiotics, anti-helmintics, anti-histamine, antacid, and cardio-protective drugs.The choice to manufacture their drugs locally has the dual aim of providing affordable healthcare as well as improving the employment and manufacturing capabilities of Nigeria and Africa at large. 