Ahead of today‘s governorship primary election in Edo State, President Muhammadu Buhari has initiated plans to address the leadership crisis rocking the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). Senate President Ahmad Lawan who gave the hint after meeting Buhari at the presidential villa said it was resolved that the crisis would not be allowed to degenerate further. Lawan added that in the next few days actions will be taken to resolve the lingering crisis in the party. The buildup to the APC primary elections in Edo State had sparked a leadership crisis culminating in a battle for leadership of the party after the suspension of the party‘s national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The crisis also saw to the defection of Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Speaking after the meeting with President Buhari yesterday, Lawan said, “But I also had the opportunity to talk to my president and my leader about the challenges in the APC. I believe that we have to deal with these challenges. This is the ruling party of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, with the president, with the control of the National Assembly, with more governors than any other political party. “The situation should not, and must not be allowed to degenerate further than it has. And I believe that we must go into the constitution of our party and see how we are to address this but we must not allow this to continue as it is today. “The stability of APC is the stability of Nigeria. This is the party that is running the affairs of this country. So, I believe that we have to sort this out and that will make our work even better and easier when we have a stable party.“ Explaining further, he said, “Because the party is supposed to be part of the apparatus of running government. We are supposed to run or operate or implement or execute the manifesto of the party. “And therefore the party is so key, so central, so essential to ensuring that government, whether on the executive or legislative side, continues to face those issues in the manifesto and of course the manifesto will be to make Nigeria better. “So, I had the opportunity to discuss that with the president who is the leader of the party in Nigeria and by the grace of God in the next few days we will see that certain actions are taken and we are praying that all our leaders in the party across the country will make every possible  effort to get the party reconciled.“ On the security challenges in the country, the Senate president said the government will do whatever it takes to address the situation. He also disclosed that the National Assembly is open to the idea of a supplementary budget to address the fundamental needs of the security agencies of the country so that we can be able to empower them, enable them to fight the Boko Haram in the North East, banditry and other security challenges across the country. „Secondly, in the Senate, we believe we need to provide more resources for recruitment by the security agencies, the Army, the Navy, Air Force, Police, immigration, the paramilitary generally.  We need to have more manpower or personnel and this is not something you get on platter of gold. Whoever wants to make an omelette will break an egg.  Tension Over Gathering Permit As Edo APC Picks Gov’ship Candidate Today Meanwhile, tension has continued to mount as the APC holds its primaries for the governorship election in Edo State today. This comes as the Edo State government has charged political parties to restrict the conduct of their primary elections within the protocols and provisions of the state’s COVID-19 Quarantine Regulations and Gazette on political gatherings. The secretary to the state government, Osarodion Ogie Esq, in a statement, reiterated the state government‘s resolve to enforce the laws and regulations emplaced to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The declaration of the government was against the backdrop of a statement by the APC Edo State governorship election committee headed by Imo State governor, Hope Uzodinma, yesterday outlining the procedures for today’s primary election which it said is in compliance with the state government’s COVID-19 regulation. In the statement the secretary of the committee, Dr Ajibola Basiru, had said voting would commence simultaneously by 8:00 at the 192 wards in the state, insisting that not more than 18 persons would be allowed to gather at the same time from the commencement of voting till the end of the exercise when results would be announced. But the Edo State government, in a statement yesterday, insisted that the state would spare no expense in upholding the law and protecting the lives of the people. It noted: “The Edo State Government is calling on all political parties holding primary elections to restrict themselves to conducting their activities within the protocols and regulations provided for in the Edo State Coronavirus (COVID-19) Quarantine Regulations and the Government’s Gazette on political gatherings during this pandemic. “These guidelines were issued in fulfilment of government’s statutory duty to ensure the protection of lives and property in the state, in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.” The SSG noted that the APC was acting in defiance of the law, stating “However, we note with concern that all the political parties conducting primary elections in Edo State have notified the government of their readiness to comply with the extant laws and COVID-19 regulations, except the All Progressives Congress (APC). “The APC appears resolved to carry on with the conduct of their primary election in violation of the Edo State COVID-19 Quarantine Regulations and the state Government’s Gazette on political gatherings in a pandemic.” “We also have it on good authority that these persons have imported thugs into the state to actualize this illegality, further threatening the peace and security of our dear state. “In the light of this, we want to state unequivocally that the Edo State Government will spare no expense in upholding the law and protecting the lives of our people. We will ensure we identify and prosecute anyone who engages in this illegality and their collaborators, should they proceed with this unlawful conduct. Rivers APC Suspends Giadom The APC in Rivers State yesterday announced the suspension of the deputy national secretary, Chief Victor Giadom, from the party over acts of gross infraction on the party‘s constitution. APC caretaker committee chairman in the state, Rt. Hon. Igo Aguma, in a statement signed by his media aide, Livingstone Wechie, said the suspension followed a recommendation by a Fact-Finding Committee of the party. The statement reads in part: „The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State has suspended Hon. Victor Giadom for acts of gross infractions of the Party‘s Constitution. “The Fact Finding Committee of the Party recommended the following measures against Hon. Victor Giadom: “That Hon. Victor Giadom be immediately suspended from the Party and every Party activities for his numerous infractions of the Party Constitution and conduct, which have brought the Party irredeemable disrepute. “That Hon. Victor Giadom should immediately write a letter of apology to the party and same should be published in three (3) National Newspapers. “The Committee report which was presented to our state Executive Committee meeting was accepted and adopted as the position of the APC in Rivers State.“  Ondo Deputy Gov, Ajayi, Finally Joins PDP After several months of sustained acrimony and mutual suspicion between them, the deputy governor of Ondo State, Agboola Ajayi on Sunday, finally ditched his boss, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. Ajayi yesterday formally resigned from the ruling APC and picked up  membership card of the opposition  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in his Apoi Ward 2 of Ese-Odo local Government Area of the State. This is preparatory to his formal defection to the opposition party today, at the State office in Akure. Nonetheless, the deputy governor‘s defection to the PDP appears to have heightened anxiety among party leaders, especially governorship aspirants, as he was said to have single handedly nominated the chairman and all the members of the committee to conduct the party‘s governorship primary in the state. A chieftain of the PDP who roots for an aspirant told a select team of journalists, soon after Ajayi‘s event at Kiribo, his hometown yesterday, said It was a welcome development that the deputy governor was coming to the party. He said, “But one thing is clear; the NWC will have us to contend with if they accept his proposals on the primary committee and go ahead to deliver him as they have plotted in Abuja. However speaking after his resignation from his former party, Ajayi disclosed that he would not resign his position as the deputy governor of the state.  We Are Not Following  You To PDP– Dep gov‘s Kinsmen But Ajayi‘s defection to PDP, suffered his first reality shock yesterday as majority of the members of the APC in Ese Odo local government area refused to follow him to the PDP. Secretary of the APC, Ese-Odo local government chapter, Ajayi’s own local government chapter, Hon Tob Loko, dissociated himself and his people from what he described as “…betrayal of leadership and attempt to undermine the government.“ Loko said he rebuffed the monetary and material entreaties offered by the defecting Ajayi to lure the unwilling members of APC in his local government chapter to follow him to his new party. Loko told Agboola Ajayi that himself and other good members of the APC in the local government who had tolerated him for this while will not join him in his way to political destruction. In a related development, a former Head of Service of Ondo State, Mr Ajose Kudehinbu came hard on the embattled deputy governor of the State, Hon Agboola Ajayi, saying he is the least qualified to rule the state. The defection of the deputy governor, came some hours after a video emerged where he accused the state Police Commissioner, Bolaji Salami and his team of restraining him from going out of the government house in Alagbaka, Akure. Reacting, the PDP told the APC and the Nigeria Police to stop fighting a lost battle, as nothing can stop the imminent mass defection from the fizzling APC to the PDP across the country. The PDP was reacting to a viral video clip on social media which saw an encounter between the Commissioner of police in the state and the deputy governor. The PDP in a statement by its national publicity secretary Kola Ologbondiyan said Saturday’s „despicable attack“ on Ajayi, „by the APC, using the Ondo State commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami, has further spurred Nigerians in their irrevocable determination to abandon the sinking APC and move into the PDP. But a statement by the senior special adviser to the Ondo State Government on  Special Duties and Strategy, Dr Doyin Odebowale, dismissed claims that the deputy governor was harassed in anyway by security at the government house. The SSA while reacting to the video clip trending on the social media, said at no time did any security operative prevent the deputy governor from leaving the Government House as conveyed in the edited video. Odebowale said, „It was he who beckoned to one of his aides to do the recording. I was there. The Chief Security Officer to the Governor of Ondo State had called my attention to some strange human and vehicular movements around the Guest Chalet occupied by the Deputy Governor at around 9:45pm, almost 3 hours after the commencement of the curfew in the State, on the 20th June, 2020. “The Governor’s Special Task Force was about leaving the Government House for enforcement. I instructed the Officer-in-Charge of the place to ensure that nobody was allowed to leave the premises unchecked. The Deputy Governor was NOT anywhere in the premises at the time”.  