In this interview with CHIBUZO UKAIBE, commissioner for Information and Orientation in Ondo State, Donald Ojogo, speaks on the intrigues ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primaries in the state. The APC will hold its primaries in July and some members of the party are already agitating for direct primaries. It seems the body language of the governor is calling indirect. What is the situation of things in that regard? First and foremost, we’ve not come out as a government that we are opposed to direct primary; neither had the governor expressed aversion for same. We’re not afraid of any mode of primary. And I’ll want the public to know too that the noise being orchestrated by those in the Unity Forum for direct primary is to put out a narrative that Mr. Governor is opposed to any direct primary. In fact, we’ll even prefer a direct primary. So those who are making noise about direct primary are only wasting their time. The truth of the matter is that there are no two situations that are the same. Somebody made allusion to the situation in Lagos State. Everybody stepped down for a particular aspirant then and it was a two traffic contest between the incumbent governor and the then governor. For those who clamour for direct primary, the message to them is that Governor Akeredolu is more prepared for any mode of primary than those who clamour for direct.  Are you saying the governor is not scared of direct primary? Scared? Does it not sound preposterous that in a camp of very deceitful governorship aspirants or governorship hopefuls of about six or seven who cannot put their heads together that the only slogan bringing them together is direct primary. It’s laughable and that is unfortunate. You can’t put something on nothing. What is the basis for their clamour for direct primary? They are irreconcilable, contradictory, with lethal interests against one another. These are people who cannot come together. In the camp of Governor Akeredolu, our case is different. We are not on the same pedestal with these persons with usually contradictory and mischief laced interests. But we are not bothered, but one thing is very important, we are not going to take any issue with levity, no opponent is worth being overlooked. We’ll not underrate anyone even as we wont be bothered by every of their antics. Surprisingly, none of them has come out to repudiate the performance of the Governor. That itself is a great relief. It is agreed that Governor Akeredolu has performed; so what else is required.  Is the governor considering option B peradventure he doesn’t get the APC ticket, will be move to another party? That your question is absolutely needless. It means you have already concluded otherwise. We should not be talking about plan B. We don’t have anything like plan B, plan A and even plan C. All we know is that we are going into the primary of the APC to win and going to the election of October 10, to defeat whoever will be presented by any party. So, we have nothing like plan B. We can’t discuss plan B, there is no basis for us to even discuss plan B.  There are speculations that there is a Cold War between the governor and his deputy with the plan by the deputy to dump APC for PDP. What is your take on this?  I don’t know if there is a cold war. If at all there is, it is not abnormal in politics, it is not unusual in politics. And as far as governance is not affected adversely, those of us who are working under them have not seen the reason to believe that there is a cold war. We do not believe that there is any cold war, we don’t think so. Whether the Deputy Governor is going to PDP? I lack the competence to answer that question. I’m not in his mind, I’m not in his heart, I’m in APC and I do not think I would want to subscribe to rumours that he is going to PDP. If actually, you have also considered them rumours why don’t you wait and see that he has actually moved to PDP before we confirm that these things are real. So, I do not want to believe in those rumours but the along line you have said, I also hear them as rumours. I don’t want to believe that it is true. Even if it is true, it is not within my competence to either confirm or deny.  Is the governor picking another running mate? I also do not know. I lack the competence to know if the governor is picking another running mate; and why so, if at all, ask yourself. Mr. governor does not believe that a winning team must be changed. He, Akeredolu is the winning team. But he also does not think that he has the power to stop anybody who does not want to belong to the winning team; he doesn’t have the powers to force anybody to stay put.  The governor is said to have lost majority of lawmakers hence his inability to carry out the alleged impeachment of his deputy? The governor is not interested in impeaching or removing anyone. He’s not interested. That is not even his business. He believes that whoever wants to leave his government can leave at any time. He will not raise a finger to push anybody out. If the governor is having enough majority, a comfortable majority that is more than two-third in the House of Assembly and he has no problem dealing with them, then why must he go-ahead that they must impeach someone?  At what point did the governor and his deputy part ways? I do not know, and I dont want to know. But I can say that the governor in the history of Nigeria and Ondo State, in particular, is the only governor that entrusted so much power in his deputy much more than any other person. In the history of Nigeria, I can say that the office of the deputy governor of Ondo State, I’m not talking about the personality but the office of the deputy governor became more powerful and more influential from 2017 till date under Akeredolu. And if there are issues the public sees in the realm of loss of confidence, distrust, and disappointment, culminsting in a cold war, according to you, we need to know why because I also don’t know at what point something went wrong and there shouldn’t have been any reason for anything to go wrong because since Akeredolu came on board, the office of the deputy governor became more powerful than it was. And if actually, they have parted ways, it will be unfortunate and only betrayal of trust and confidence, it could have been the reason.  Recently, N4.3Bn belonging to the Ondo State government was found in a secret account of a bank. What is the true position of the matter in light of an allegation that the governor’s son was paid  N430M consultancy fee from the money? You alleged that the Governor’s son collected N430 million as consultancy fee from the N4.3 billion. Where is the evidence that he collected the money? The truth of the matter is I know with the viciousness of the opponents of Governor Akeredolu either within the APC or outside is so fierce to the extent that if they had gotten a piece of single evidence that the Governor’s was collecting one naira from Ondo State, they would have been flying it. Let them come out with the evidence that the governor’s son collected N430 million. And, I want to tell you that the N4.3 billion couldn’t have been paid into expenditure account but into revenue account.  Who and how was the money discovered? Let me give you the background of the N4.3 billion crisis. Who discovered the money? The money was lodged since 2008 or 2009 even before the advent of the immediate past government. The Bank hid it from the immediate past government. But immediately this government came on board, somebody in government was informed that the money has been laying in the bank. The people went ahead through due process to find out what was actually wrong and they discovered that the sum of N4.3 billion was in the Bank for over 10 years without even the knowledge of immediate past government. First, what the government decided to do, I mean officials of government, what they decided to do was that they had a running battle with the Bank as they insisted that the interest on the money must be calculated for keeping the money that long without the knowledge of government.  But with no intention to defend the bank, if your money is in the bank and you didn’t write that the money should be traded with, the bank couldn’t have done business with your money on your behalf to generate interests for you. It was just docile, laying fallow in an account. So, if the money was there and not interests had accrued, what was the basis of keeping the money there belong the period of discovery? So moving the money to the banks was punitive enough for the bank in question. So, on all those papers you see flying about the money, was it paid into a private account? It was the same government’s accounts. It was put into government’s properly managed accounts.  What your reaction on how the State Assembly reacted to the matter? What the House of Assembly did was not out of place. But it was not the House of Assembly that discovered it. When the money was discovered, what the Ministry of Finance did was to transfer the money to the ministry of Budget and Planning to be incorporated in the 2019 budget. But by the time the money was discovered in 2018, the 2018 budget had already been prepared and passed by the House of Assembly but it still reflected the financial statement of the Accountant-General. By 2019, the money reflected in the 2019 budget under inherited fund and it was duly appropriated for by the House of Assembly. The House of Assembly discharged its constitutional responsibilities but the source of inspiration for some, just a few, about five or six of members of the House of Assembly that it was not appropriated for, that source goofed. He wrote a badly scripted piece for five or six of Assembly members to act. And that was the reason they goofed. I can tell that majority members of the House of Assembly were not happy about that false alarm that was raised. And I’m also happy to say that I do not need to make further explanations other than adopting the statement that was made by Rt. Hon. Speaker that some fifth columnists wanted to take advantage of that little gap in communication On one or two occasions, the House of Assembly also came out to acknowledge the fact that some persons outside the House were trying to use that issue to create some problems between the executive and the legislature, but those persons goofed. Government didn’t spend the money without legislative appropriation. I want to say emphatically and fearlessly that those who think they can use very spurious and unsubstantiated issues to blackmail the governor and the government of Ondo Stage because of their ambitions have failed and they will continue to fail. I can tell that Mr. Governor has a minimum of 20 members of House of Assembly who are solidly behind him. Those few five who are against Aketi may have their reasons and it is their right not to believe in the aspiration of an individual. So, it is the noise of the minority. There can’t be a better thing for democracy than what they are doing. I want to use this opportunity to appreciate the House of Assembly for their steadfastness. They have displayed enough statesmanship. Under the leadership of the Speaker, they have resisted several attempts by these over-ambitious individuals to rock the boat. Those who are standing with Mr. Governor are still standing. If you look at the level of viciousness and the ferocity of the attack on the person of the governor and the executive arm, if they were having the majority, I can tell you today that they would have commenced impeachment proceedings but because they do not have it and they go all around to tell the world that yes we have the majority. They do not have the majority. So, whoever is flaunting that he has the majority members supporting him in the House of Assembly is only spreading falsehood, it is perception hype.  Don’t you think that the governor should be bothered with the number of his Kinsmen from Owo seeking to unseat him? The plethora of aspirants from Owo. It is good that they are coming out but the joy of the multitude coming from Owo is that it only creates the impression that somebody from Owo will still remain governor but not in the manners of their desires. 