Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue on Tuesday inaugurated the State House of Assembly Service Commission. Ortom, while inaugurating the commission in Makurdi said, it was to ensure smooth administration and running of the House including recruitment, promotion and discipline of staff. He enjoined members to be guided by the extant laws governing the commission and also charged them to be committed, conscientious and patriotic in all their dealings with the staff and the public. He thanked the lawmakers, particularly the Speaker, Mr Titus Uba for the expeditious approval of the commission members. He listed members of the commission to include, Dr Sylvester Atachin as Chairman, Mr Benjamin Dowgo, while Mr Terseer Tsumba, Mr Avine Agbom and Mr Ezekiel Adaji will serve as members. “As pioneers, you have the task of laying the foundation on which future the commission members would build. “You have been appointed based on your previous experience, competence and adherence to the doctrine of fair representation. “It is important to note too that your appointment is a four-year mandate, which may only be renewed once. “Let me emphasis that the commission cannot afford to function as an island, but shall have a harmonious working relationship with the National Assembly Commission, the State Civil Service Commission and the leadership of the House among others for optimal results,” he said. He expressed happiness that a milestone has been achieved during his tenure as governor of the state and under the leadership of Uba as speaker. “It is my belief, therefore that the autonomy of the legislature is for administrative convenience and will not stop us from continuing to work together in harmony. “As a matter of fact, it should accentuate the mutual respect and co-operation between the two arms of government for the overall good of Benue people and the nation,” he said. Atachin thanked the governor for finding them worthy of the appointment and pledged members  unflinching support for his administration. (NAN) 