Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade, Thursday applauded the leadership and members of the state House of Assembly for their steadfastness, patriotism and dedication to parliamentary duties since its inauguration last year. In his congratulatory message signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Christian Ita, to the 9th Assembly on its anniversary, the governor noted that the state legislature has so far performed excellently through robust engagement and dutiful discharge of its lawmaking and oversight functions, thus contributing immensely towards changing the narrative of governance in Cross River State. Of particular importance, Ayade noted, are the people-oriented laws which are the product of sound legislation by the members and leadership of the Assembly, which he said are testimonies of forthrightness and consistency of direction. “Since the inauguration of the 9th Assembly last year, the House has given unalloyed support to the other two arms of government, especially the executive arm  without compromising its independence. There is no doubt that honourable members of the current Assembly have the interest of their constituents and the entire state at heart considering the laws they have passed so far,” Governor Ayade noted. He expressed profound gratitude to the lawmakers for demonstrating legislative sagacity during this trying times occasioned by the COVID-9 pandemic, stating that members of the Assembly have been an integral part of the epic fight against the global pandemic, a feat that has positioned Cross River on the global map as a COVID-19-free state in Nigeria. “The legislative backing we have enjoyed from the House in the past one year has seen us attain the enviable status as a COVID-19-free and state”, he stated. Governor Ayade implored the state Assembly to sustain the legislative tempo by enacting more people-oriented laws that would assist the state government to ensure good governance, constructive policies and programmes targeted at wriggling the people of the state out of poverty. He continued: “With the foundation laid within the past one, the journey for a four-year term has just begun. We must spare no effort in building an industrialised Cross River that will continue to provide jobs and put food on the table of the ordinary man. This should be our common ground in governance if we must leave behind indelible mark on the sands of time for posterity to know that Cross River once witnessed a government that did its utmost best to transform the lives of the citizens through the right decisions and policies that were pursued rigorously with consummate exactitude. “Once again, I enjoin our honourable members who are the representatives of the people and the closest to them at the grassroots to continue to mobilise them to show more understanding and support to the government as we work hard to make Cross River State a better place”. 