Indications emerged on Friday that moves to suspend the Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu and others from All Progressives Party (APC) in Ekiti state have commenced. The presidential aide alongside Dr. Wole Oluyede, Hon. Oyetunde Ojo, Chief Akomolafe,Engr Ayo Ajibade, Bunmi Ogunleye and Ben Oguntuase are being considered for suspension from the party over alleged anti party activities. The aforementioned members of APC in the state were alleged to have on behalf of other aggrieved leaders of the party instituted a legal action against the validity of the ward, local government and State Executives of the state chapter of the party. The case filed at the Federal High Court in Abuja, it was gathered, had twice been mentioned in court and adjourned to July 6, for further hearing. Ojudu, had last week accused Governor Kayode Fayemi of running the affairs of the party as his personal business, saying all internal mechanisms towards resolving all issues had been frustrated by the governor. He also alleged that Governor Fayemi-led administration has not done much in terms of governance since 2018 when it came on board. An impeccable source revealed on Friday that executive members of Ojudu’s  Ward 8 in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital were invited by the State Working Committee (SWC) led by Chairman, Mr. Paul Omotosho to the party secretariat and were instructed to commence the suspension process. The source said, “The chairman while addressing the Ward executives said he was sent by the governor to instruct them to sack Ojudu from the party. Expectedly , we did not agree with it because this is a man that has been contributing to this party for years here. We, the executives, said we cannot do that to one of our strongest members. ” ‘’We told them to tell us his offence ,they could not convince us and we insisted we will not do it but they can go ahead at the state level of the party to do whatever they like. As far as Ado ward 8 is concerned, Senator Ojudu has not done anything to warrant suspension.” The meeting, however, ended in a deadlock, but the source said that the ward executives have been invited again for another meeting on Monday “where it is believed they will be pressured to carry out the suspension.” When contacted, Ojudu said he was informed this afternoon (Friday) that the State Working Committee has started the surreptitious moves to suspend him. “Yes, I have been told that they are making moves to suspend me. They have called the ward executive and started pressuring them to sign my suspension, which they resisted”, Ojudu added. Meanwhile, the Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Ade Ajayi has denied the reports of the moves to suspend Senator Ojudu, calling on members of the APC to disregard it. “I heard about it but it is not correct and I want our people to disregard the report. We will invite the ward executives to tell us where this is coming from and we will know what to do,” Ajayi said.