The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has donated food items and medical consumables to Akwa Ibom State Government to support the fight against COVID-19 pandemic in the state. Receiving the items on behalf of the State Government, the Chairman of COVID-19 Management Committee and Secretary to the State Government, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem expressed appreciation to the interventionist agency for the kind gesture. “On behalf of His Excellency, the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Udom Emmanuel, the leader in this fight of COVID-19 contagion and the people of Akwa Ibom State, I express our appreciation to the management of NDDC for this solidarity to the Government and people of Akwa Ibom State,” Dr Ekuwem stated. He said the donation by the commission will go a long way to complement government efforts in cushioning the socio-economic effects of the pandemic in the lives of the citizenry. The food items donated included;1,500 of 50kg bags of rice, 411 bags of beans, 387 bags of garri, 128 numbers of 25 litres of palm oil, 2,615 cartons of mimee noodles and 1,150 cartons of biscuits. Medical items were 77 cartons of sanitiser, 93 cartons of dettol,1,164 cartons of toilet roll, 46 cartons of toothpaste, 25 cartons of toothbrush, 155 pieces of inhaler, 42 sets of crutches as well as 42 sets of wheel chair. Presenting the items to the State Government on Tuesday at Government House, Uyo, the NDDC Acting Managing Director, Prof. Kemebradikumo Pondei said the relief materials was Akwa Ibom share of the Agency’s support to the nine Niger Delta States aimed at reducing the sufferings faced by people as a result of measures put in place by government to curtail the spread of COVID-19. Pondei, who was represented by the Director of NDDC, Akwa Ibom State Office, Elder Obot Udoette said the second batch of the donation was in addition to the first consignment of palliatives donated earlier in support of government’s efforts in the fight against the spread of the disease and commended the Udom Emmanuel led-Administration for the proactive steps taken in containing the pandemic in the state. “The State as we know has stood out in this fight by recording an outstanding success.I heard in the news recently that the NCDC and WHO representatives visited the state and declared that Akwa Ibom State has a world class isolation centre,” Udoette stated.