Many unemployed graduates, as well as their parents and guardians, are bound to heave a sigh of relief following the announcement, by the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, that enrolment into Batch C, of the N-Power programme, will commence on June 26, 2020. This is coming against the backdrop of the concerted effort by the ministry to resolve some of the knotty challenges that have dogged the implementation the programme. Besides, It is gratifying to note that the two underlying issues, the exit dates for batches A and B participants and the issue of outstanding payments have been substantially sorted out. As a matter of fact, the only issue left to be resolved, as admitted by the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, during last Tuesday’s press brief of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, is the outstanding allowances to 12, 000 participants, out of 500, 000 beneficiaries. The minister’s admission was a bold demonstration of transparency, given her earlier position that all the beneficiaries had been paid. What cannot be dismissed is her explanation, that the disconnect was created by the migration, from the original platform in use, to the Federal Government’s IPSSIS platform. These are indeed familiar problems in Nigeria and until recently customers of banks suffered untold disruption each time any of the banks embarked on any type of upgrading or change. Be that as it may, we can take consolation in the knowledge that the issue is being resolved. It is cheery news that the 500, 000 graduates of batches A and B of the N-Power Programme, since it was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2016, under the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) will now exit into entrepreneurship schemes  on June 30 and July 31.To appreciate the significance of this development, one needs to understand the rationale for the programme in the first place. As clearly stated from the beginning, the Buhari Administration initiated the N-Power “to reduce youth unemployment by providing a structure for large scale and relevant work skills acquisition and development. In addition, its core outcome was to be linked to fixing inadequate public services and stimulating the larger economy. Thus, while there has been some predictable mischief among some critics of the program, there is no denying that, in some cases, apprehension caused by the delayed exit of the beneficiaries has been genuine and justified. That the minister and her team have successfully dismantled the roadblocks that had posed a huge cog in the wheel of progress; obstacles that effectively undermined the attainment of the lofty objectives of the scheme, hold her up as a tenacious and focused strategist whose often subdued countenance should not be misjudged for indolence or weakness. If anything, it is obvious that she is a calm and calculated manager who understands how to effectively deploy men and materials to achieve the vision and mission of the Buhari Administration. With the imminent enrolment of 300 graduates under Batch C, the Administration will be on course, in its pledge to empower Nigerian youths with life-long skills in order to become solution providers in their communities both locally and internationally. Little wonder President Muhammadu Buhari commended the programme in his Democracy Day broadcast on June 12, 2020. Appreciating the great efforts put in by the Ministry, President Buhari said “our Social Investment Programme has continued to be a model to other nations.” Obviously, the minister and her team deserve a pat on the back for the decisive steps taken to ensure that Batches A and B exit the program. It is a known fact that many of the participants never wanted to exit the programme, perhaps, due to the inherent benefits attached to N-Power. This has been one of the major challenges facing the scheme. However, the truth remains that the programme was not intended to be an open-ended avenue for people to colonise endlessly while denying others what, in local parlance, has come to be known as “dividends of democracy”. So the minister was right when she asserted that the imminent enrolment of Batch C participants is in in furtherance of the President’s vision of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty, by creating opportunities that will enhance the productivity of the Nigerian youths for entrepreneurship. In retrospect, it is regrettable that, despite the immense benefits of the programme which was initiated with all the best of intentions, the huge problems that were later to be inherited by the minister, the first to occupy the position, were not really anticipated or provided for. Be that as it may, it is reassuring that the Buhari administration, with Minister Sadique Umar Farouq as the arrowhead, has been able to unhinge that protracted lock-jam, and now pushing for a sustainable template. Obviously, this could not have been possible without the patience, diligence and dedication of the minister and her team. It is, therefore, pertinent for Nigerians to be patient. The need to support and encourage those at the driving seat, as they strive to do a thorough job, cannot be overemphasized. Yet, even as the minister’s effort is acknowledged, it is also hoped that the mistakes of the past have been taken care of. As the saying goes, once beaten, twice shy. It will be a sad day if, after this time out, Nigerians wake up again to tales of delayed payment or inadequate plans for the exit of Batch C beneficiaries on completion of their programme. From all indications, there is need for greater  synergy between the Ministry and various stakeholders including state governments, the organised private sector and other development partners whose input and support form integral parts of this novel development architecture in the history of Nigeria. For maximum success, it is imperative to now mainstream all these stakeholders, into the new implementation mode of the scheme, even as the Batch 3 participants are being enrolled. The National Directorate of Employment (NDE) model whereby participants are put through mentorship in life skills as artisans, professionals and entrepreneurs should be deliberately cultivated to upscale the competences and confidence levels of the N-Power graduates. With such synergy, it will be very easy for the graduates, to gain requisite entrepreneurial skills necessary for transiting to either employers of labour or highly needed skilled manpower in the local and global markets. In addition, the ministry should incorporate regular capacity-building seminars for peer group review by the participants within contiguous areas. Such for should also be used to attract successful entrepreneurs, professionals and leaders who would mentor the participants, not only in their various areas of specialisation but on citizenship issues. Overall, it is indeed noteworthy that the n-Power programme is well on course. Despite the huge interest, by both admirers and adversaries, in the performance of the ministry, the minister and her team should not be discouraged. Public service is akin to living in the dust bin: every conceivable thing can be dumped inside it. What matters is to remain focused, to be able to make a difference and overall, to impact on lives. I want to say, without any fear of contradiction, that the imminent enrolment of Batch C, of the N-Power programme may be seen as one little step, but it is in reality, a giant leap towards sustainability of the programme.