In the wake of the effects of the COVID 19 pandemic across the globe, Korea has donated food items to 300 households at the Piwoyi community in Abuja. Piwoyi community hosts the Nigeria Korea Model School (NKMS), a $15m multimedia basic education learning center funded and established by the Korean government in collaboration with the Nigerian government. Ambassador Lee In-Tae says the palliatives delivered through KOICA, Korea’s agency responsible for aid administration to developing nations, aims at cushioning impact on families made economically vulnerable by the pandemic. Commending the federal government’s intervention efforts to relieve less privileged Nigerians, Lee In-Tae urged for greater solidarity to defeat the virus. Reading from Korea’s example where collective freedom over personal gain were prioritized among its citizenry, and the safety and kindness to its neighbours over isolation promoted, yielding the incredible feat of a national election amidst the pandemic, the ambassador notes, “Korea is transitioning even though total victory over the virus is yet to be attained.” “Our idea of the protection of our neighbours extends beyond our shores. We extend our arms in brotherly solidarity to the people of Nigeria.” He continues, “The people of Piwoyi have shown great commitment to the development of their community. They have shown how community partnership and effort and can be harnessed by government towards development as a good host to NKMS.” Reiterating the value of nurturing ties between both countries, In-Tae says Korea aims at improving collaboration with Nigeria that will yield more benefits and strengthen relations among their citizenries. Opened in 2018, the NKMS is a model for the development of a multimedia public basic education system in Nigeria. Last year, the school held a training for a 120 FCT public school teachers towards the dissemination of its educational outcomes. Same year, the FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu urged Korea to replicate the model school across the six geo-political zones in Nigeria.  