All is now set by a digital marketer/ Social media Influencer Mr. Kelvin Akparanta otherwise known as Kelvinkul to begin an academy where over a hundred young school leavers will be trained on digital marketing and mock radio broadcasting in Cross River. Aparanta disclosed while fielding questions from our correspondent in Calabar yesterday while reacting to insinuations making the rounds that his company Box411 lacked what it takes to impact the requisite skills to young people who may want to go into digital marketing, social media marketing and others. He  stressed that the academy when fully operational, it will help several youth acquire knowledge in the area of broadcasting, graphics design, content writing/development in the various area in the media Sphere so as to reduce the rate of unemployment which has been a major problem in our society. When asked to comment on the amount to be paid by trainees as tuition, Kelvinkul  stated that the training will be done at free of charge stressing that training the youths to acquire such basic skill was a way of paying back to the society which according to him he had been a beneficiary. “I will train them at a free of charge fee because as it is the only way of giving back to the society and helping people realize that the media is the new oil. “If we have people of like minds, we will train people and that will help reduce the rate of unemployment in our society. “Our plan is to have a mock radio station where trainees will learn how to talk on radio, read news, and learn radio production “We will have a mock digital marketing office where trainees will have to use the mock brand to learn. “We are looking at purchasing equipment, paying resource persons, settling the rent for the place we will use, running logistics etc. “We are looking at a budget of about N2.5m.  So far, we have put in proposal to well-meaning Cross Riverians to support us and on our own we can raise half of the money from our jobs. When asked to through more light about Box411, Akparanta said, “Box 411 officially got registered in 2018, and I have been opportune to push two brands Box411 media – A Branding and Digital Marketing/Advertising agency  and Kelvinkul – A brand strategist, Talent Manager and business man. “Box411 handles corporate image branding and Digital Marketing while Kelvinkul deals with brand strategy, graphic design and entertainment. When asked to mention at least one or two artist under his brand over the years Akparanta said, through one of his brands Kelvinkul he has trained and promoted young, talented minds like MC Koboko and international Boy who are now making waves in the city of Calabar and beyond. Akparanta stated that apart handling jobs for Hit FM, FAD FM and Sparkling FM Calabar, he has handle jobs for Miss Africa Calabar and Big Brother Naija BBN too amongst others. I can also teach people on how to use the social media platform to improve their business sales. Akparanta advised youths to be focus at all times stressing that  they can still make it to the top if they remained determined adding that where one resides is no barrier to hitting it big. When asked to speak about his awards even won, Akparanta said, “In 2015, while I was blogging, I won the best music blog of the year from Paradise Music Award. “I also won another award from COOL FM, Lagos still in 2015. I was also awarded the Media Personality of the Year in 2018 from the South-South People’s Award.