With COVID 19 pandemic affecting many businesses, leading to delayed salaries, Nordica Fertility Clinic has launched two new products, to encourage more couples to access fertility treatment. The managing director, Nordica Fertility Clinic, Dr. Abayomi Ajayi, during the Launch of the two products, Nordica Flex Pay Payment Plan and Nordica Xclusive, said the pandemic has created a new world order, where innovation and customer satisfaction are critical to business success. It is on the back of these two critical issues that Nordica has developed the two new products which are a direct response to the new challenges being thrown up by COVID-19, says Ajayi, adding that “while the world is focused on COVID-19, we need to keep our eyes on couples who are fertility challenged. “In the last 17 years, helping couples complete their families has been at the heart of all we do and today we are expanding access to fertility care for couples across the key sectors of the economy.” Speaking on Nordica Flex Pay Plan, the managing director said fertility treatment all over the world is a high cost ticket item. “In the USA, the average cost of an IVF cycle has been put between $10,000 to $15,000, for the basic treatment without any add-on treatments and drugs. In the UK, the average cost for basic IVF with own eggs can range between £4000 to £9000. While when using donor eggs it can range between £9000 – £12000. Embarking on your IVF journey is much more affordable in Nigeria and we can safely say that the treatments available are comparable to some of the high profile clinics anywhere in the world. To help many more people access fertility treatment, Ajayi said Nordica introduced the flex pay plan, which is an instalment payment plan which allows couples to save towards having babies of their own. With very easy payment options, couples who qualify for the plan, stay focused on achieving their goal of childbirth. The Flex Pay Plan will allow couples to set a target for themselves. While they are on the plan, they will have access to some of our premium services leading up to the final treatment required. I implore couples to take advantage of the plan to complete their families. The Nordica Xclusive Service, according to Ajayi is designed for the extremely confidentiality focused clients who may have opted for their treatment abroad. “In the face of travel restrictions and the hazards of COVID-19, seeing a premium local alternative that offers flexible appointment-only services with the aim of giving them extremely personalized service. Couples who desire this level of world-class service can latch onto Nordica Xclusive,” he added. 