A new survey has revealed that about 258 million widows now face untold hardship across the world. This is even as COVID-19 is imposing new challenges on women and exacerbating the numerous other difficulties they already face in their daily lives. Amidst the alarming rise in the figures, women are also leading the health response with women making up almost 65 per cent of the health care response against COVID-19. At the same time, women are also shouldering much of the burden at home, following school and child care facility closures and longstanding gender inequalities in unpaid work. Addressing a press conference to mark International Widows Day yesterday in Abuja, the executive director, Women, Law and Development Initiative (WOLDI), Ms Hauwa Shekarau, decried the alarming figures of women being exposed to hardship, saying the COVID‑19 pandemic is harming health, social and economic well-being worldwide, with women at the centre. Shekarau noted that the coronavirus pandemic and the attendant lockdowns and economic closures that are afflicting the world today have led to untold hardship on women most especially widows. She said most women don‘t have family support, healthcare, pension or even basic necessities to support themselves and their children. She stated: “Aside the pandemic, most widows around the world have been subjected to diverse forms of harmful traditional practices, victimisation, discrimination and abuse. “These vices are regularly on the increase, especially in developing societies such as Sub-Saharan Africa and Nigeria in particular. The voices, needs and experiences of these Widows are often suppressed and absent from government and societal policies that are likely to impact on their survival.’’ To alleviate the hardship on women, she called on the federal government to address the social stigma that has led to exclusion, and discriminatory or harmful practices against women to ensure that widows rights and needs are enshrined in international and domestic laws in line with the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) and the convention on the rights of the child. Shekarau further said that the group is ready to welcome every case of discrimination against widows and their children, adding that our doors are always opened and ready to listen and fight for their rights.  Include Widows In The COVID-19 Response Plans – UN Meanwhile, the United Nations’ secretary-general, António Guterres, has called for the inclusion of widows in the COVID-19 response plans. Guterres who made the call in a message on this year’s International Widows Day marked annually on June 23 stressed the need to include support for widows’ immediate needs in fiscal stimulus programmes He said, “There is a need for governments to include support for widows’ immediate needs in fiscal stimulus programmes which for instance through access to cash transfers. “This year’s International Widows Day takes place as the number of deaths from COVID-19 continues to rise in many places, especially for men.’’  Widows Play Roles As Fathers, Mothers – Lawyers Also, the African Women Lawyers Association of Nigeria (AWLA) eulogised widows for being steadfast in playing dual roles as fathers and mothers to their children. The AWLA coordinator, Mrs Cordelia Eke, in a statement issued in Lagos yesterday, said widows need to be supported, adding that they play the role of both men and women. “AWLA felicitates with the special category of women known as widows. Today we salute your courage, strength and resilience in the face of the challenges faced on the demise of your beloved spouses,’’ she said.  Plight Of Widows In Nigeria, Pathetic – CLO In a related development, the chairman of the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) in the South-South Zone, Chinedu Karl Uchegbu, described the plight of widows in Nigeria as pathetic. Uchegbu who disclosed this in a telephone interview with LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt, said the majority of the widows suffer because they are not educated. He said, „The plight of widows in Nigeria is pathetic. Many of them are uneducated while others lack the skills to be self-reliant. Most time, the psychological torture that they experience compounds the trauma of their husband‘s demise that leads to depression and related health problems. “One of the biggest challenges confronting widows in Nigeria is how they are treated by their in-laws. Their in-laws confiscate their late husbands‘ property. “Even human rights activists are often helpless because husbands fail to use their wives or children as their next-of-kin.“  WANEP Expresses Concern Over Increasing Rate Of Sexual Violence Similarly, the West Africa Network for Peace-building, Nigeria (WANEP-Nigeria), has raised the alarm over the increasing sexual assault and rape of women and girls in the country. In a statement signed by the national coordinator, WANEP-Nigeria, Ms Bridget Osakwe, entitled: ‚Urgent call to end gender based violence and protect the rights of women and girls in Nigeria“, yesterday in Abuja. Osakwe said, “The recent cases of rape and sexual harassment of women and girls are an expression of the deeper systemic disregard for women as widely reported by the media resulting in the death of the victims have sparked outrage across the country. “The rape and murder of Mrs Queen Igbinevbo, a pregnant woman in her home in Edo State on 20 May, 2020. The rape and gruesome killing of Vera Uwaila Omozuwa, a 22-year old Microbiology student of University of Benin in a Church in Edo State on 27 May, 2020. “The rape and murder of Barakat Bello, an 18-year old female student of the Department of Science Laboratory Technology (SLT) Federal College of Animal Health and Production in Ibadan, Oyo State on 1 June, 2020; and the gang rape of a 12-year old girl in her home at Ajah, Lagos State on 4 June, 2020, amongst others.” She called on the state to implement transformative strategies that are people-oriented and focused on addressing the root causes of gender-based violence. They also called for improved security with attention on women and girls and enacting laws for a strong national response that supports victims and survivors of violence. She noted that the steep increase in gender-based violence became noticeable with the outbreak of COVID-19 and the “Stay-at-Home” directive imposed by the federal government as part of the measures to curb the spread of the disease. She added that most women and girls at this time were confined at home with their abusers with little or no information on what to do and how to access social services. She commended the 25 State governments that have passed the Child Rights Law, he also called on the 11 State Governments that are yet to domesticate the Federal Child’s Rights Acts including, Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto, Yobe, Jigawa and Zamfara states to do so immediately to protect the rights of children particularly girls. She said, “Gender-Based Violence is a global pandemic that affects 1 in 3 women in their lifetime. The issue is not only devastating for survivors and their families but also entails significant and social-economic costs”. Osakwe said the increasing prevalence of violence against women and girls in the Nigerian society is a deliberate attack, ingrained discrimination and injustice which highlight a form of structural violence. NGO Calls For Proper Legislation To Protect The Rights Of Widows A Jos based NGOs, Hope for the Widows said it was doing everything humanly possible to stop the abuse and exploitation of widows by promoting their rights and calling for stronger legislation. Its executive director, Serah Ambrose, said, “The Hope for the Widows is working with both the State House of Assembly and other relevant government agencies to ensure proper legislation that will punish whoever abuse or maltreat widows in the society”. She urged widows to report cases of maltreatment and abuse to the Ministry of Women Affairs and NGOs with a focus on women‘s rights with the view to seek redress whenever their rights are trampled upon and not to keep silent. Mrs Agwama Agatha, a widow for five years, told our correspondent that the assets she inherited from her late husband were taken away by her in-laws, adding that she and her children were left with nothing. “The culture in Nigeria that subjected widows and their children to an untold hardship is totally unacceptable.’’ Agatha added that her husband‘s relatives even demanded for her late husband‘s ATM card and other documents.  Widows Grieve Over Neglect, Deprivation Decrying hardship and deprivation, Mrs Mercy Anukam, a widow in Imo State, said life has been horrible and unbearable and full of grief since the demise of her husband. Anukam said she finds it difficult to feed or pay the school fees of her five children. She said, “It is from one form of hardship to the other as I try to cater for the needs of my children alone without anyone readily available to support her in this direction.’’ She also decried failed promises from her family members who promised to assist her to train the children to university level. Mrs. Anukam lamented that when the chips are down, ‘’no one would be available to assist. I am left alone to bear my cross.’’ On her part, Joy Osundu, another widow lamented that her husband’s gratuity for over ten years has not been paid by the state government. She said, “As I speak with you my husband’s gratuity for over ten years has not been paid by the state government. All we hear every day is a series of promises upon promises. Today they will instruct us to bring identification slips, tomorrow BVN and next tomorrow, tax clearance. I have gone through hell in pursuit of what rightfully belongs to the family’’. Also speaking, the director, Development Dynamics, Dr. Jude Ohanele, advised the federal government to enact laws that will protect effectively the rights and privileges of widows. Ohanele who is a human rights activist said when this is done life will become meaningful for widows who seem hapless and helpless in the society. He stressed that only a few individuals and Civil Liberty Organizations have soft spots for widows as they should be looked up as vulnerable species requiring regular assistance from the government and wealthy citizens. He charged the widows to form a formidable union that would be able to fight for the rights and privileges indicating that individually they are not likely to achieve much in this direction without cohesion. Speaking to LEADERSHIP, Mrs. Ihunaya Okechukwu, a mother of five from Umuokpara, who said she lost her husband at the age 35, said widowhood is an experience she will not wish even her worst enemy. She said, „My husband died just when our marriage was beginning to stabilize and it was not easy raising the children as a petty trader. Thank God that today I can proudly say we have come out of the woods.“ Okechukwu said her greatest challenge was when her in-laws attempted to compel her to consent to marry her late husband’s brother which she said she bluntly refused. Also, Mrs Angnes Amaechi, a teacher in a public school in the state capital, Umuahia, narrated how her mother-in-law kept tormenting her for being responsible for the death of her husband, who was a commercial bus driver. Amaechi said she now has peace of mind since she relocated to the state capital, adding that she goes home to visit her two little daughters. She said most of the challenges widows face emanate from the ignorance of their rights and believe in settling the matter traditionally so as to avert incurring the wrath of the elders of their community.  