A group, Obaseki/Shaibu Mandate Forum, said the defection of Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shuaibu, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was the tight strategic move ahead of the September Governorship election. National chairman of the Obaseki/Shaibu Mandate Forum, Chief Nathaniel O. Momoh stated this while congratulating the Obaseki for his official declaration of membership with PDP. The Forum considers the move as one that was long in coming following the poor handling of his aspiration by the Adams Oshiomhole led All Progressives Congress. “We believe this is a positive step in the right direction and a clarion call on members of the forum to double our efforts to ensure his victory at the polls. “We salute his consistency, courage and patience in everything he stands for with the ultimate goal of making sure Edo’s interest is jealously guarded. “We in the Obaseki/Shaibu Mandate Forum are elated over the new political party identity of the governor and call on all Edo people to stand by the Governor irrespective of tribe or Creed. “And keeping with our resolve to move with the Governor to work with him irrespective of the platform he chose to actualize his ambition and his dream to make Edo great. “It is critical that all Edo people stand with Obaseki in his new political party especially as it offers Edo state to have him in a platform for the Edo people to make him that choice for continuity in the development of Edo state.” Obaseki/Shaibu Mandate Forum holds the view that a second term for Obaseki is another opportunity for a consistent development across Edo state. “Again, we state that support for Obaseki is support for Progress, development and advancement to all parts of Edo state just as it is a support against the plot to enthrone a godfather, whose role in politics is to de-emphasis development and run a reward for bad governance. “We also want to say again that we congratulate our ever pragmatic Governor for his decisive step to seek his political fortunes in the PDP. “I hereby plead with us to join others to work with him in his new party, the PDP.”