Stakeholders within the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) under the auspices of APC Young Stakeholders (AYS) called on party leadership to head for emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting and convention if it is serious about resolving the current crisis rocking the party This is as they also challenged party leaders and founding fathers to rise up and salvage the APC from the various crisis rocking it. Speaking at the national secretariat of APC on Sunday, coordinator of the group, Mr. Ife Adebayo on Sunday at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja expressed concern over the drifting in the party and the barrage of litigations over the leadership of the party by various interest groups. The group declared as worrisome the barrage of crisis the party have gone through in the past few weeks and lamented that those who ought to have nipped the crisis in the bud have “shockingly, either refused to or seem unable, for reasons that we can’t simply understand”. Adebayo who was flanked by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Social Investment, Ismaeel Ahmed and other leaders of the group, said they were forced to lend their voice to the ongoing crisis rocking the party. According to the group, “we can longer sit and watch our great party disintegrate into fragments. “Our party’s name and reputation that was heralded with so much hope and enthusiasm just a few years ago is being dragged into the news media every day in ridicule or all sorts of negative headlines,” the group complained. Aside from calling on leaders of thoughts, the group called for an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party to table and discuss all pending issues in the party, including the convocation of a National Convention as required by the constitution of the party as soon as feasible “to ratify, reject or amend any law, structure or issue as agreed by it”. Proferring further solution to the party crisis, the call for the revalidation and new registration of members so that the party will have a harmonised register to enable it properly hand the party back to the people. This, they argued would help to ensure easy conduct direct primaries or congresses without the controversies and drama that usually comes with it. According to Adebayo, “Nigerians still believe in this our great party and have trust in our government to make things right. Let’s do our part to make sure that we reignite that trust and confidence through a proper institutionalization of the party. All hands must be on deck to ensure this happens. “We will continue to ensure that our party is always on the right path, as we will ensure that it is institutionalised for the benefit of generations to come”. The group advised that the party cannot go into the forth coming governorship elections in Edo  and Ondo States in petty squabbles, insisting that, “We cannot go into those contests with a divided house. The painful cases of Zamfara and Rivers where judges were allowed to be the new electorates is still fresh on our minds and we cant afford for those kinds of situations to repeat themselves”.