The Oba of Benin, His Royal Majesty, Omo N’Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare 11, has threatened to place curses on those using his name to hurl insults on President Muhammadu Buhari and the former governor of Edo state, Comrades Adams Oshiomhole and claiming to have his authority to do so. Angered by a recent video trending on social media anchored by one Eranomigho Edegbe, hurling insults on Mr President and the former governor, the monarch warned that if the accuse and his cohorts refuse to repent from acts tarnish the image of the respected traditional institute the Oba may be forced to invoke ancestral curse on them. A statement signed by the secretary of the Benin Traditional Council, Frank Irabor, said the Oba strongly condemned the malicious video describing the those behind the video as disgruntled elements who are not happy with the cordial relationship between the Palace of the Oba and the Presidency. The Benin Chief stated that the monarch and his subject’s unequivocally love for Mr President is unparalleled as the relationship they share date back to the immediate past Oba of the kingdom, Oba Erediauwa. According to him, Mr President was always very nice, warm, respectful and accommodating to the late monarch and has extended same to the current Oba, Part of the statement reads: “We wish to state unequivocally that our love for Mr President is unparalleled as the relationship shared date back to the days of His Royal Majesty, Oba Erediauwa (of blessed memory), the immediate past Oba of Benin. This relationship was further strengthened when Mr President headed the Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF). It added that, “In our avowed stance of non-partisa ship, we are in constant prayers that His Excellency’s desires are fully manifest in Edo State for the benefit of the Benin Royal Family, Edo people and, the nation as a whole. Thus, our prayers and support for Mr President is enormous. On other individuals such as the former governor of the state who was painted in bad light in the said video, the Traditional Council said, “We wish to state that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has always been respected not just the traditional institutions in Edo State, but also the Palace of the Oba of Benin. His affection for our father who adopted the Comrade as a son is well known. This relationship was also reinforced during his tenure as Governor of Edo State.” Exhorting the business guru, the palace scribe said, “Captain Hosa Okunbo is an illustrious son of the Palace of the Oba of Benin, who at all times has worked in support of the Palace as a son of the Oba of Benin, thus, there can be nothing but goodwill and positive prayers for this distinguished son of Benin kingdom.” Describing the video initiators as disgruntled elements, he said, “These utterances and behaviour of Eranomigho and his cohorts show that they are not happy and comfortable with the cordial relationship between the Palace of the Oba of Benin and the Presidency. “Furthermore, it shows that some disgruntled elements like Eranomigho have deep animosity against Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Captain Hosa Okunbo. “The video under reference, and all such made in similar vein should be seen for what they really are, as they seek to propagate ‘fake news’, misinformation, disaffection, and misrepresentation for their own selfish and mischievous intentions. While asking the general public to ignore the claims of the video, Frank said, “We use this medium to sound a note of caution to the general public to totally disregard and discountenance  the statements made in the said video and to further warm that this attempt and similar attempts to bring the Palace of the Oba of Benin and the revered institution of the Benin monarchy into disrepute shall be met stiffly within the parameters of the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the traditional processes of the Benin kingdom.” Calling on initiators of the video to repent or face the consequences, the Palace scribe said, “Eranomigho and his cohorts are hereby reminded that there is an ancestral curse on anyone who attempts to tarnish the image of the Oba of Benin and the ancient Throne of Benin kingdom. “The Benin Traditional Council hereby demands an unreserved apology from Eranomigho in other to avert the consequences.”