Marbays TV is one of the fastest growing online TV’s in Nigeria and owned by Mariah Olasehinde, a broadcaster. In this interview with JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH, she spoke on her experience in broadcasting and other issues. Can you tell us about yourself? My name is Mariah Olasehinde I was born 42 years ago in Surulere Lagos. I attended Air Force Primary School Victoria Island. Aunty Ayo Girls High School Obalende. After Secondary School I gained Admission into the University of Abuja where I bagged a B.A degree in Theatre Arts. I graduated in 2001. I also obtained a Masters degree in Public Administration from Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Ogbomoso, Nigeria. I am a broadcast Journalist with over a decade experience in Journalism , I am the CEO of MARBAYS Communications Ltd. Owners of  MarbaysTv Online and presenter of Know Your Representative on Tvc News. Can you tell us about your Education? I served with NTA Channel 10 Tejuosho, Lagos . In  addition to my qualifications above and in order to pursue my passion in Journalism i went to the F.R.C.N school now  National Broadcast Academy Lagos, where I did both Basic & Intermediate presentation courses. I have worked with DBN TV, NN24TV and TVC NEWS as an Anchor, Reporter and  Producer. I joined TVC NEWS as a  Reporter  because of my  Tenacity & hardwork i was deployed to cover the Presidency – Office of the Vice President as the State House Correspondent. I covered the beat passionately that someone said whenever he watches the VPs report he knew it would be my name on the byline and i laughed. Covering that beat was one of the best thing that happened to me. I am grateful to God and the people he used to make it happen. God will not fall from heaven to send you helpers, He will set your path right for Favour after you must have paid your dues. I must confess Divine Grace found me In July 2019 this Tenacious Respectful, Generous, Empathetic, Hardworking & Focused Wall breaker bowed out of TVC NEWS to start her own production Outfit -MARBAYS COMM.LTD owners of MARBAYS TV online – How did you build up Marbays  TV? Hmmmmn this is a big question, after I resigned from TVC NEWS I didn’t plan starting MarbaysTv but I was convinced in my spirit that I wasn’t working for anybody again, I will start an Independent production and move on. But as I kept consulting and praying I decided to start an online platform, thats how I  registered the name MARBAYS COMMUNICATIONS LTD. I thank God Almighty for the Privilege of a new beginning. One of the stories that got peoples attention when I started was a story on  high demand of Condom during the lockdown and I wanted to sample my acceptability. As soon as I posted the story to all my phone contacts the reception was very encouraging” oh Mariah you have started your own blog thats beautiful.” I must confess the kind words I got from family, friends and colleagues  pushed me to do more, and they keep coming daily. Starting my Programme Know Your Representative on TVC NEWS is a dream come true and am grateful to God for that. Know Your Representative the idea was birth by a colleague of mine, we got talking and she said ” Mariah lets try this programme, its very educative and informative thats how we put pen to paper and to the glory of God after crossing so many hurdles the programme is on Air. KNOW YOUR REPRESENTATIVE is a thirty minutes programme that captures the untold stories of the good work of Nigerian lawmakers in their constituencies.  The unique selling point of this programme is to sell the unsung developmental projects of every lawmaker. Now that the pandemic is here, we are beaming our searchlight on Lawmakers who have shared palliatives in their constituencies. What is your motivation? The word of God motivates me and has kept me till date, the woman on the street who sells but doesn’t know where the next meal is coming from motivates me. I remind myself and tell my children that see those children selling for their parents on street you are not better than them but we are only privileged to have the little we have so we should always be grateful because Tables can turn. So when I see such people I remember my humble background. I have gone through a lot in life so when I push so hard and I get words of encouragement it endears me to do more because I am motivated. God has blessed me with very few family and friends that believe so much in my dream. Do you have any words of wisdom? When Life gets blurry adjust your focus. I found this quote when I was passing through some challenges and it has helped in reshaping my thoughts. What are your achievements? For me my marriage is an achievement. I have heard many people say marriage is not an achievement but for me it is because staying in marriage for over 14 years and still counting, is a big one for me and I give all glory to God. If marriage is not an achievement why do we celebrate those who have stayed 40,50,60 and even 5years? My family is my greatest achievement every other thing is secondary because after all you have achieved at the end of the day there is only one place to  return to thats your home and family, the reason why we should work hard to keep our home safe. Take the lockdown as an example government didn’t say stay at work or stay anywhere “Laughing”. The slogan is Stay Home and Stay Safe. Anything one cherishes and don’t want to lose can be one’s achievement. Who are your mentors in the industry? My mentors, my late mum, now I realise why she was trying to shape my life then as a teenager, you know as a teenager if you have strict and disciplined parents you want to say they are wicked but growing up now, I am most grateful for the lessons I learnt from my mum. On the Job my mentors are Mr Babajide- Kolade Otitoju, Mrs Seun Olagunju I love the way she carries herself on the News and her Presence, Mrs Abike Dabiri- Erewa, Aunty Comfort Okoronkwo, Orlaedo Mbiwe, these are women that have inspired me on the Job . I have a few mentees to who look up to me. How did you became a broadcaster? I have always admired the tube. Although I studied Theatre Arts, you know I told you I served with NTA Channel 10 Tejuosho so during my service year there is this programme for Youth Corps members. I am sure the Producer Ebuwa saw in me that I could present, so she allowed me and other corps members to anchor the programme from there Aunty Comfort Okoronkwo also picked interest in me and allowed me present her children’s party programme. She was so supportive, those days if you find yourself on the tube you are lucky on NTA for that matter. After my Service year, I joined DBN Tv in Lekki as an Anchor, Reporter from there I moved to NN24Tv as a Reporter/ Script Writer , from NN24 I got employment with TVC News as a reporter,  here I am today as the CEO of MARBAYS Comm. Ltd. How do you manage work and family? Managing work and family is not really easy but from the way God created us , Women are multitasking. The first two or three years of marriage can be tedious especially when you start having children but with proper planning and a good spouse things will fall in place. Now my children are grownup ,its counselling time, at this stage i talk to them always and we have bonded well. You see managing both is not child’s play and again managing resources comes with it, that is when there is no money its pretty difficult you have to do practically everything yourself but if there’s money, you can outsource some things to people who wants to help out that way my burden is reduced What are your best moments? Party time. I like to party especially with a Live band. My 40th birthday party is one moment I can’t forget in  a hurry. Quality time of Praise and Worship. I am a lover of God ooooh I love to worship my maker. My trip to Paris Eiffel Tower that place is beautiful with lots of activities. My wedding day and whenever I meet a need I feel proud of myself. Time with my husband too especially when we have those little misunderstandings and we get to sort things out when you look backwards we both laugh it off. Mariah Olasehinde has interviewed both the high and low in the society, she is always willing to develop and motivate others to achieve targets. What are your challenges? Starting MARBAYS TV was a major challenge. You know life is in stages. Overcoming betrayal and you know what they say about it, betrayal hurts when it comes from a close person, your ally. Running a business now at this time is challenging, facing criticisms from those who mean well and those who don’t the backstabbers, you know what, I take them all in and work on it. In times of challenges, God has always shown himself after relying on my own wisdom or people and things don’t work out. God shows just like that and everything is sorted. 