Electricity consumers in the country have lamented the outrageous hike in the monthly electricity bills given to them by the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC). Protesting the increase which was reflected in the new bill brought to each household in March and sighted by LEADERSHIP Sunday, Nigerians also expressed dissatisfaction over poor electricity supply. LEADERSHIP Sunday’s survey revealed that some of the bills were increased between 40 and 90 per cent or more, but the energy charge per kilowatt has not increased. For electricity consumers in Apo, Dutse, most worrisome has been the new method employed by AEDC officials to cream off huge sums of money from them. The customers alleged that since March this year, AEDC officials had made it a routine to compel customers to pay outrageous estimated bills from the old bills they were previously issued. The customers also alleged that whenever they demand for a proper bill to enable them pay, AEDC officials would decline and disconnect them. They said those who complied to avoid disconnection were never issued any proof of payment and were forced to go through the cycle over and over again. A resident of Apo District, Austin Sunday, said he had been demanding the monthly bills but AEDC refused and instead disconnected everybody because they would not pay from their old bills. Even when they sought clarifications, AEDC officials, often hostile, would not offer one. Again, Sunday complained that what he was paying as bills were evidently higher when compared to the simple appliances he uses, especially with the highly erratic nature of electricity supply in the area. He said, “What is happening here concerning electricity supply is complete exploitation, and all the people have their stories to tell. “It all began in March when they came and demanded that we pay a highly-inflated bill in spite of all our complaints. They used to bring bills in the range of N70,000 to N120,000. “That March, prior to the take-off of the capping policy of the government in April, when officials of AEDC came, they asked us to clear our outstanding bills. And the amount they were requesting from us each time they came was huge and not commensurate with our consumption. “Many of us here are using simple home appliances such as light bulbs, fans, TVs, and the supply is so erratic that we see light  only occasionally. The worst is that they came and disconnected us for over a month, and now even as we continued paying, they keep saying that we have outstanding bills. “Now, bills in the range of N70, 000, N80, 000 to N120, 000 are coming to a compound of four to five people who use nothing other than simple home appliances”. Another customer, James Noble, shared the same story line, even as he expressed worry about arbitrary disconnection of people in the area over outstanding bills, even when they were making effort to pay. “And it is not as if we enjoy long hours of power supply. Some weeks, you may see light (electricity) for like once or twice, yet the bills, which they usually bring in the middle of every month, keep going up,” he said. Opara Christopher, one of the residents of Apo-Dutse, gave his own angle to the issue, saying AEDC officials had not been bringing monthly bills to them, but had  been coming to collect money and leaving them  wondering what actually they were supposed to pay. He stated: “For three to four months now, we have not seen any bills, but they have been asking us to pay the one they tell us, including part of our outstanding. “They would come, ask us to gather a certain amount of money, which is quite on the high side compared to the amount of supply we get, and when they have collected the money, they would scribble the transaction on a paper and give us. Since we are not given the bill, we don’t know how much our bill actually is. But we keep paying to the officials that come”. Abdul Gwantu, a resident of Uke in Karu local government of Nasarawa State, also narrated his ordeal to LEADERSHIP Sunday. Gwantu said his compound of six tenants was getting bills of N8,000 to N10,000 until March, which they were paying, but the bill jumped to N17,000 for March. His words: “This shocked us because we know we only use simple appliances that every average family uses, and our power supply is the off-and-on type. “We did not even know that the worst was yet to happen. Subsequent bills that we received were even more than that. Please the authorities should come to our aid”. A shop owner at New Nyanya in Karu local government, Magret Ekoja, also recounted her ordeal, saying she was running the shop at a great loss due to the epileptic power supply in the area which had made her resort to fuelling her generator “even as I continue to pay electricity bills for the shop and my residence every month.” An industry watcher, who spoke to LEADERSHIP Sunday on condition of anonymity, however, said the power situation all over the country is similar to the cases tendered by the complainants. “I think these people complaining don’t know that it is a general problem. Residents of most parts of Nigeria are victims of such cases in terms of electricity supply. What we need is a holistic approach that will engender a total overhaul of the system,” he said. On his part, Obasi Okoruwa, a public commentator, said there were still a lot of gaps to be addressed with regards to the performance of AEDC in terms of its relationship with customers. “If we have to look at it generally, there is a backlog of unresolved issues that have to do with consumers’ dissatisfaction with AEDC. Until lately when the regulator (NERC) gave notice for their intention to review the operational license of some DisCos, most of them had been too reckless in their dealings with their customers. “I think that the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission should begin to look into some of these complaints,” he said. Another public policy analyst, Dr Magnus Ihem, described the level of performance of the DisCos in terms of customer services since privatisation as poor. “For instance, they have not been obeying Sections 80, 81 and 82 of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act of 2005; that is, on consumer protection and licensing performance standards. Specifically, there is exploitation and fraud in collecting reconnection fee that is contained in that Act,” he added. However, AEDC has dismissed all the allegations, saying it was not in the practice of the company to disconnect people who are paying their current bill plus part of their outstanding or collecting money from customers without referring to their electricity bills. AEDC’s general manager, Public Affairs, Oyebode Fadipe, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the company’s primary focus was customer satisfaction, and where there are complaints such as the ones being put forward by customers here, “it is usually investigated to ascertain the veracity of the claim and resolved.” He, therefore, urged the affected customers to look for the AEDC customer care centre within their locality where they would listen to their case and address it as appropriate. Fadipe said, “They should go with any receipt or document left with them by those who come as AEDC officials to collect money from them for proper identification. “That is why we have customer care centres everywhere. Once, they get there, all these allegations of crazy billing, unwarranted disconnection, and collection without bills, among others, will be looked into and handled as appropriate”. Following the failure of most DisCos to meter a tangible population of their customers and the controversies that have trailed the estimated billing being used for unmetered electricity customers in the country, the industry regulator, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), had in February this year approved the capping of the amount to be paid by electricity customers across the country under the estimated billing system with effect from April 30, 2020. According to an order repealing existing billing regulations of 2012, NERC stated that all unmetered residential and commercial (R2 and C1) customers shall not be invoiced for the consumption of energy beyond the cap stipulated in the Order according to designated DisCos. A statement posted on the commission’s website then explained that those classified as R1, who consume no more than 50kw/he of energy per month, shall continue to be billed at N4/kwhr and a maximum of N200 unless amended by an order of the commission. For consumers under AEDC, N24.30/ kwhr was approved for R2 (above 50kw/hr) consumers, and N37.39 for C1 (single & 3-phase) consumers. And in what could be described as a step further to ensure compliance with the capping policy, NERC swung into action on Tuesday by issuing a notice, threatening to sanction seven DisCos over their failure to comply with its Order 197/2020 on capping of estimated billing. NERC gave the indication about the enforcement notice through its Twitter handle, @NERCNG. The order was to ensure consumers in the two categories, who do not have electricity meters installed for them by the DisCos, were not disconnected from the electricity supply grid. It listed the affected DisCos to include those in Benin, Enugu, Eko, Ikeja, Kano, Kaduna and Port Harcourt. The DisCos were given 14 days beginning from June 4, 2020, to explain why they should not be sanctioned over their alleged non-compliance. However, a public notice issued by the same NERC earlier, which stated an upward review in the prices of pre-paid meters to be purchased by customers under the Meter Assets Providers (MAP) scheme, an earlier initiation of NERC itself, has been greeted with opprobrium from industry stakeholders who questioned the goodwill and fairness of the commission in addressing the wide metering gap in the country. In a release by the commission’s chairman and CEO, Prof. James Momoh, electricity consumers desiring to acquire meters are now to pay N44,891.16 and, when 7.5 percent VAT is added, N48,258 for the single-phase meter, while consumers who use three-phase meters are to pay N89,062.33, VAT included. According to the order from NERC, the new price is effective June 1, 2020. Before the development, a single phase meter sold for N36,991, while a three-phase meter was pegged at about N68,000 under the MAP scheme. One of those who condemned the development is the national secretary of the Network of Electricity Consumers Advocacy of Nigeria (NECAN), Uket Obonga. In a statement he posted on social media, Obonga said, “The decision to increase meter prices remains callous, insensitive and a clear demonstration of incompetence by the leadership of the commission,”  urging a return to the status quo with immediate effect if the wide gap in metering must be bridged. Speaking with our correspondent, the executive director, Research and Advocacy at the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), the umbrella body of DisCos, Barrister Sunday Oduntan, said that stakeholders in the industry were at the moment making concerted efforts to come up with modalities that would entrench transparency, efficiency in the system.Oduntan said the power sector was facing myriad of challenges and the players were interested in working with the federal government and the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to see that a conducive environment that would erase losses incurred by investors and ensure a stable supply of electricity was achieved soon. On the part of the DisCos, he said they had always desired to provide seamless services to customers but in most cases were constrained by industry- wide challenges. “We will not want to do anything that will disrupt the system, because we are stakeholders and we have always stressed the need for efficiency in the system, so no deliberate intention whatsoever is contemplated to ridicule a process that is calculated to end the country’s energy crises,” he said. Meanwhile, local meter producers have called for the cancellation of the current Meter Asset Providers (MAP) initiative. Chairman/chief executive officer, Momas Electricity Meters Manufacturing Company Limited, Mr Kola Balogun, told our correspondent that the MAP initiative as presently structured, cannot guarantee speedy closure of the country’s metering gap. According to Balogun, the Credited Advance Payment for Metering Implementation, (CAPMI), came about due to the slow pace of customer metering by the DisCos, as well as the high level of complaints received from customers and dissatisfaction with the current estimated billing practices. He explained that CAPMI provides a platform for willing customers to pay the cost of the meter into a dedicated account jointly managed by the DisCos and meter vendors/installers and once payment has been effected, the customers would have their meter installed within 45 days, by vendors/installers accredited by NERC. The federal government decided to wind up the system after it claimed poor performance in meeting its target. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the NERC notified the DisCos, through a letter, that between November 2013 and June 2016, only about 500,000 meters were deployed by the 11 DisCos within their networks, with less than 35 per cent of that directly done by the DisCos. As such, the electricity distributors were given a deadline of November 1, 2016 to wind up the CAPMI system. The minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, said that the DisCos performed badly with meter deployment even after collecting monies from consumers. A report submitted by a metering committee headed by Barr Bamidele Aturu stated: “It should be recalled that the CAPMI initiative, which was instituted in 2013, was designed to assist the DisCos in providing alternative financing options for reducing the very dire metering gap that was estimated to be above 50 per cent.” But Balogun expressed concern that even with its slow pace then because of some lapses, it was far more promising and implementable than the MAP system. He said that apart from much burden the MAP system placed on consumers, electricity customers were additionally encumbered by the recent review of meter unit cost by NERC. According to a circular ref: NERC/MAP/20/28/139, titled: ‘Review Of The Unit Cost Of End-Use Meters Under The Meter Asset Providers Regulation’ effective from June 1, single phase meter goes for N44,896.17 against N36,991.50, while three phase meter, is now N82,855.19 from previous N67,055.85. This, according to the regulator, was in response to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s changes in foreign exchange and applicable rates available to importers of meter components and or fully assembled meters through the investors and exporters forex window. Balogun, however, viewed this review as creating more challenges to an already sluggish MAP implementation which is responsible for DisCos not being able to meter consumers.