According to Housing Development Advocacy Network (HDAN), the Federal Government of Nigeria’s projection of 300,000 housing units per annum will remain a wishful thinking unless it resolves some existential problems at the core of the sector. In a statement signed by  Festus Adebayo, Nigeria needs to stop paying lips service to housing development. The group believes that private sector stakeholders and reliable investors will only participate in government projects when they can perceive real ambition and the political will to match action with words. The statement stated that Nigeria has to speed up current interventions and must also introduce more if the housing deficit must be reduced drastically. Due to many years of policy summersault, the group believes that it is very expedient to act fast and with palpable determination. While lauding the Federal Government’s plan to deliver at least 300,000 homes every year, the group advises them on certain strategies that can make this possible.  First is that they must get the private sector to be involved in decisions for which their resources of time, finance and goodwill will be expended. “There must be due consultation and every party must be clear about what their unique responsibilities are,” they said. They must also work on removing the bottlenecks in the transaction dynamics by getting the land administrators (36 States and FCT), to ensure Ease of Approvals, Title Registrations etc. Especially the adoption and domestication of the Model Mortgage and Foreclosure Law in their Sates and FCT. Furthermore, the statement reads that “there should be a recapitalization of FMBN to enable mortgages to be created, and in so doing refinance Family Homes Funds and other Developers including Federal Ministry of Works and Housing (FMW&H) whose funds are massively tied up in Estates across the Country.” The group advised the government to commence a process of working with professional bodies and organisations including NGOs to ensure a high  level of professionalism and diligence in their operations and processes. Inability to work with professionals, as against political contractors  has been a real threat to housing development in Nigeria, the group said . HDAN pointed out  that the government should restructure the National Housing Delivery Architecture by ensuring that roles and responsibilities are assigned, and adhered to by  stakeholders. “The roles of state government through its Housing Corporations cannot be neglected. The government should forestall Federal Ministry of Works and Housing direct housing construction. To this end, theFederal Housing Authority (FHA) must be restructured to deliver rent to own houses across the country.” The government should, according to HDAN, commence massive artisanal training programme that will ensure availability of skilled workers for the construction of the houses. They should incentivize the use of local building materials, and the creation of backward linkages between building materials manufacturing and construction. 