Senator Abba Moro is representing Benue South senatorial district in the Senate. In this interview with RUTH CHOJI, the former minister states that, funds set aside for NASS renovation is not necessary  for now and also spoke on sundry issues.  Some Nigerians have criticised the way the Federal Government is handling COVID-19. What do you think? COVID -19 is a pandemic that has surfaced accidentally without anybody preparing for it. Nigerian government rose to the occasion and is still trying to contain it. They have followed all the protocol handed down by WHO. I think the task force on COVID-19 should be headed by a  professional because it is ridiculous to watch the person  addressing Nigerians, that is not a doctor. The person heading the taskforce is not a medical personnel. We need the best heads in the medical profession  in the task force. The Federal Government has also found itself in serious predicament because the pandemic proved our medical sector is in shambles. We have heard issues of Lassa Fever and other deadly diseases, but  COVID-19 took everybody unawares.  There are fears that the pandemic may have devastated Nigeria’s economy. Do you harbour such fears? It is true because our economy is in a mess. It is at standstill. The economy  was at the verge of recession before COVID-19 completed the work. No international or domestic flight, no work, nobody is putting in anything. The president submitted a reviewed budget to The  national assembly.  It was reviews downwards.  The budget was reduced by just 10 per cent and some are of the opinion that, the 10 per cent reduction is not enough. What do you think? At the moment, nobody is concerned with whether it is enough but the reality on ground. We don’t have the resources.  What is the reality on ground? Our reality and desire is that the pandemic reduces soon, so that we can have something. Within the short policies  of the Federal Government, the pandemic is on the increase and we are losing people in the Senate.  What advice can you give the Federal Government on how to stop the infection? We need flexibility and also there is a need to resume economic activities especially interstate movement. Many of it is stranded and this is affecting the economy. We must enforce other protocols like washing of hands, no shaking and others. We cannot continue to be afraid of death from COVID-19, else people will die of ‘hunger virus’. We must also address Nigerian penchant for disregarding laws and rules. Federal Government has revealed that all the loans they collect is to invest in the economy …. Finance experts have said their parts but, we in the chambers have our reservations.  The Senate considered a lot before approving the loans. Yes, there are fears that the loans are becoming huge, but there is a need to exercise caution.  The PDP caucus in the Senate seems to be docile except for Sen Abaribe. Is it that they have been cowed? People can say that because they don’t know the dynamics of governance. you contribute to issues when you are permitted by the leadership to. Sen Abaribe represents the collective sensibility and he has greater opportunity of speaking out than others  because he is the minority leader.  Many Nigerians believed that the senate leadership is a stooge in the hands of the executives. What is your take on this? We have a system that is inter- dependent of each other. Of course the opposition will have their say but the majority will have their way.  Billions earmarked for the national assembly complex renovations have drawn lots of criticism. What is your take on this? It is part of the process. There is no doubt that the Senate building requires some renovations, but I am not versed with the nitty gritty of what it will take to fix the complex. But there are holes in the Senate chambers that need to be fixed. Having said that, I don’t think  the funds set aside for the renovation is necessary now given the circumstances we find ourselves.  Moving way from  the senate, are you worried with the  spate of killings taking place in some parts of the country? It is very worrisome. Last week I was in my constituency and a community in Obi local government was attacked by suspected herdsmen. I listed a motion which was overtaken by more national debate. Within the same week, there was a militia attack in Agatu, another flashpoint. Nine lives were lost. Southern Kaduna has become the epicenter of constant attacks by militia and herdsmen. Plateau, Niger, Taraba, Zamfara and the rest are not spared.  You will want to think that Nigeria is on the precipice of  war. If urgent steps are not taken,  things might get worse. These killings have become matters of importance  and if we don’t raise them, people will think we are not working. Our security system needs urgent overhauling. Senators are begining to ask that, we come here and raise motion but what are the results of these motion? Even the request for assistance from NEMA has not been addressed. Months after the attack, nobody has been arrested. The pathetic situation is that you hear of numbers of people moving from one state to another in trailers. A situation where over two hundred persons hide in a trailer that was supposedly conveying cows, you begin to ask yourself why people will move to a place where they have no work or homes. The whole thing  is a sign of security failure.  Given the opportunity to advice the Federal Government on how to stop these killings, what will it be? By now, Nigeria should have developed a proper intelligent gathering system that is proactive and reactive. By now we should have defined  the nature of attacks, reasons and also a comprehensive dossier of flash point. Rather than reacting to attacks, we should have been proactive in stopping attacks. The number of one minute silence we have observed to these people is more than the number of steps that has been taken to stop it. I think that as a country, we must find out why these killings keep reoccurring with impunity? The Federal Government must step up action by providing logistics and additional security operatives to stop these killings.  Going back to politics,  with the crises in Edo and Ondo APC, what is the PDP doing to harness the fallout? That is exactly what is going on. You can see that the Edo Governor has crossed over to our party. Many will come from Ondo. The APC is doing macabre dance towards self destruction. We are happy about it but, that is not how democracy runs. It is a sad commentary on Nigeria’s democracy because parties are supposed to protect its members not destroy them. APC and its leadership will soon realise that what they are doing to their members will soon boomerang on the party. Should Oshiomhole as national chairman of the APC engage in this avoidable fight? In proper democracy, a sitting official is given right of first refusal, but they are not doing that. For the PDP, I can tell you that we have put our house in order. Definitely PDP will take from APC what they have destroyed for themselves. The two states are patently PDP state. What happened in the last election was sad. The system was manipulated right from Benin, results were manufactured and dumped in. PDP won clearly in all the wards and local government. Perhaps this is nemesis that  has caught up with them.  Coming back to you, what have you done for your people since the beginning of the lockdown? I have  ensured that my people access palliative to cushion the effect of the pandemic. I have also  worked with the Federal Government on the release of grains from strategic reserve for distribution to Nigerians. I have distributed essential items to the people and also helped the people to access funds from the CBN to the tune of N24m to be distributed across the senatorial zones.