The minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed has canvassed the need to mobilise local savings which she said was capable of reflating the economy post COVID-19. Ahmed who spoke during the inauguration of the National Savings Strategy Working Group in Abuja at the weekend, urged members of the group to develop easy instruments that are safe to be able to attract ordinary Nigerians to key into the strategy. The terms of reference of the group include: To study the National Savings Strategy Paper and advise the federal government on the feasibility of the proposals or with recommended changes; to advise on ways and means of mobilising and channelling corporate and individual savings to accelerate domestic capital formation to support entrepreneurs and enterprise development in the urgent task of diversifying the economy and the deepening of the capital market. The group is also expected to draft a National Working Paper that outlines a detailed roadmap on the implementation of the National Savings Scheme to be submitted for approval by the Federal Executive Council. She said, “let us not forget the average Nigerian that wants to save and does not have huge sums, we need to develop easy instruments that are safe to be able to attract them. Look at creating retail savings scheme to allow these Nigerians to save quickly by being able to enter and exit without unnecessary rigours. “We need to mobilise local savings to reflate the economy, increase productivity by creating new enterprises and ensure that existing ones also thrive.” She expressed optimism that ongoing efforts to review the Masterplan to align the assumptions and projections with current realities, would redefine the road map for stakeholder participation in the Nigerian Capital Market. In her remarks, acting director-general of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Ms. Mary Uduk, said the SEC launched a 10-year Capital Market Masterplan in 2015, a market wide strategic blueprint that had the buy-in of all stakeholders, aimed at making the market deeper, vibrant and more effective. Uduk said the implementation of the initiatives in the 10-year Master Plan will transform the Nigerian market, facilitate the diversification of the economy, encourage savings and create wealth. According to her, this will no doubt grow investors’ confidence, improve the depth and breadth of the market in terms of product offerings, engender market integrity, and contribute to the country’s economic growth. Uduk disclosed that the need to establish a National Savings Strategy was outlined in the Master Plan as one of the key strategies to enhance capital formation by mobilising domestic funds for investment to drive rapid economic growth. She said it envisaged the deliberate provision of risk capital as venture capital and private equity that are naira based and more committed to the long term prosperity of Nigeria, as well as create a buffer to the instability created by foreign investors. Also speaking, chairman of the Working Group, Mr Fola Adeola said savings is one of the fundamentals of highly developed economies and pledged the readiness of the Group to help drive the Nigeria economy. 