Global exchanges are seeing increase in green and sustainable products in efforts to rebuild the economy amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. This was highlighted during the Capital Markets in a Pandemic webinar hosted by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), recently. The event featured a panel discussion headlined by the CEO, NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema; CEO, World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), Ms. Nandini Sukumar; CEO, London Stock Exchange (LSE), Mr. Nikhil Rathi; and CEO, Luxembourg Stock Exchange (LuxSE), Robert Scharfe. The speakers discussed topical issues such as the digitisation of stock exchanges, emerging asset classes, market liquidity and the critical role of exchanges in supporting their economies, especially during a crisis. Speaking to the importance of business innovation amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, CEO, NSE, Mr Onyema noted that, “At the brink of the crisis, we received requests from investors seeking clarification on the Exchange’s business continuity plans and our ability to keep the market open. “This was clarified early enough as details of our robust response to COVID-19 was communicated to all stakeholders and we have enjoyed seamless remote operations since. This is, however, possible because of our commitment to digital transformation which began several years ago and continues to evolve with today’s emerging trends.” Onyema highlighted some of the positive results recorded including the growth in returns in the equities market with the NSE All Share Index returning month on month gains of 8.1 per cent and 9.8 per cent at the end of April and May 2020 respectively; increased participation of domestic investors in the capital market; strong performance in the fixed income market; and impressive returns in alternative investments such as the NewGold ETF. He added that the NSE has recorded over N218 billion in corporate and government bonds even during the pandemic. In light of the changing business environment, the panellists went further to address some of the changes the pandemic has triggered in economies and capital markets. One of such is the noticeable shift in attention to social bonds and ESG related issues across asset classes. CEO, LuxSe, Mr Scharfe noted, “Over the last few months, we have seen the green bond market shift quickly towards social bonds. We have seen over $20 billion raised in response to COVID-19. This is an indication that investors are interested in these types of investments and I think this is just the beginning of the shift for shift ESG investments from a niche asset to the mainstream.” Onyema stated that, “At the Exchange, we have a robust sustainability agenda.  While we have focused on the “G” in ESG, creating governance based indices and heightened awareness on governance imperatives, we have also worked with several stakeholders to address the “E” by creating green bonds in support of projects with strong climate credentials. “The COVID-19 pandemic is now forcing us to set our sights on Social Bonds as a way of raising capital to support new or existing projects with positive social outcomes.”