The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has released a total of N1.25billion to Benue State government, Aso Savings and Loans Plc and International Energy Insurance Company Limited from  recovered funds. This is contrary to false allegations that recovered funds were diverted by the EFCC officials and their cronies. A source at the EFCC told LEADERSHIP that the said N1.25billion was later recovered by the EFCC, following detailed investigations and tracing of the funds from different bank accounts. Recall that the Commission launched a massive investigation following the receipt of complaints from petitioners, who alleged that huge funds were fraudulently diverted from their original purpose. The Commission subsequently released the diverted funds to Benue state government, Aso Savings and Loans and the International Energy Insurance, sequel to their letter of requests. A breakdown of the funds showed that the Commission recovered N275.47million from members of the Benue State House of Assembly during the first term of incumbent Governor Samuel Ortom and later approved the release of the money to the Benue state government, sequel to its letter of request dated October 17, 2019 with Ref No: MOF/S/GEN/310/Vol.1/165/203. On the Aso Savings and Loans Plc, the EFCC was able to recover a total sum of N700million and has so far released N400million to the insurance firm, following its letter of request dated July 31, 2019 with Ref No: Aso Legal/2019/400. It was further gathered that the remaining balance of N300million is being processed by the Commission and will soon be released to the Aso Savings. Regarding the recovery made on behalf of International Energy Insurance, a total sum of N450million was recovered by the EFCC while the sum of N350million was released to the insurance firm. The insurance firm had requested for the release of the recovered funds in a letter dated September 20, 2019. The EFCC source also disclosed that the remaining N100million is being processed and will be released to the insurance firm shortly. The special assistant on Media & Publicity to the acting chairman of the EFCC, Mr Tony Amokeodo, who confirmed the development, however declined to give further details on the matter.