…Says He Want A Stronger PDP Barely one hour to the commencement of the Peoples Demoncratic Party, PDP, has primary, one of the frontline governorship aspirants, Barrister Kenneth Imasuagbon, on Thursday bowed to suffocating pressure and stepped down for Governor Godwin Obaseki. Leadership however learnt that the educationist was said to receive a phone call from a former President and other senior citizens before he took the decision to step down. He attributed his stepping down from the Edo Governorship race to his desire to build a strong and united Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the State. Imasuagbon who stated this while fielding questions from newsmen in Benin, had on Thursday morning stepped down his aspiration to support the incumbent governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki who joined the party last week. He said though it was a painful decision for him and his supporters across the state and beyond, but he refused to be “a spanner in the clog of the party.” According to him, “It is a defining moment for the party and the Country. It is painful for me to submit my 16 years of trying to be governor. “However, I needed to take it because of the unity of the party, because of the Nigeria nation as a country. The country, the party is far above me, the pressure was much. I cannot be spanner in the clog of the party. “The struggle is not about me anymore but about the Country, Edo and Obaseki himself is doing very well. So I have decided to step down for him and support him. “Obaseki has assured me that all my dreams for the state, he will work on it; that he will tackle the issue of hunger, that he will identify with the weak, address the challenges on our roads, built more schools and make the people happier. “Obaseki is a fine gentleman, there can only be one captain at a time.  I have always known him from afar. Humanity demands that a man who has done well should be supported, though he was distracted by APC. Imasuagbon said it was good the governor took the decision to leave APC when he did and noted that his political future is with God just as he expressed hope that PDP would emerge victorious in the September 19 poll. “PDP will defeat APC with a landslide and I will lead the attack,” he boasted. 