The presidency yesterday berated the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) over disparaging comments it made
against the current administration on its handling of the security situation in the country. The presidency also cautioned the youth groups against feeding the media with unreasonable ideas capable of undermining the government. In a sharp contrast to claims by the coalition, the presidency said no government had done more to entrench
the tenets of democracy and freedom of speech in Nigeria than the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. The CNG had on Monday criticised the government over growing insecurity in the Northern region and called
on the federal government to implement sweeping measures. The youths urged President Buhari to immediately relieve the service chiefs of their jobs, threatening to mo- bilise citizens for a demonstration until the government is completely shut down if killings in the region do not stop within 14 days. Apparently responding to the coalition, the presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, in a statement insisted that
the current administration had done more to curtail and beat back terrorists more than any other government in
Nigeria ever did. According to Shehu, President Buhari had repeatedly declared that the current administration was fixing the ailing state to hand it over to the youths. He, however, observed that it would amount to a grave mistake for a coalition group of otherwise promising northern youths to dissociate themselves from Democracy Day commemoration and, in effect de-cognise democracy as a chosen system of government. Shehu explained that Nigeria recognises Democracy Day because for many decades since independence, the
fight for the right of Nigerians to choose their own government was not complete, noting that a prominent citizen of the country, Chief MKO Abiola, died trying to do just that. “When independence was won, and then swiftly replaced by unelected government, it was not much of a change.
“For the challenges Nigeria faces today, lack of universal suffrage or lack of elected politicians is not one of them.
“We are facing severe hardships because of the coronavirus pandemic, and we continue to face the challenges posed by the Boko Haram terrorists. He argued that the fact that the CNG is freely able to transmit its unguarded comments to the media in the hope they
will be widely reported is a testament to the freedom of expression and media liberty that exists in our country today.
“Equally, the fact that the government is issuing this statement in response to the puerile message is a testament that today Nigeria is a country where disagreements can be aired publicly through the press, not through less gentlemanly methods used in the past. “Yet when groups such as the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) put out statements claiming that Democracy Day holds no purpose and the government somehow wishes for the northern states to be struggling, it is embarrassing not for the government but for the group, its members and their sponsors. “For a start, if the group dared to issue such a comment under non-democratic system, they would have met a swift and harsh retribution from a dictatorial government. They should thank their stars that we are operating a truly democratic government where the rights of free speech are guaranteed and protected. Shehu argued that no government has done more to foster democracy and freedom of speech in Nigeria than the current administration.
“We hope that CNG will consider the facts and reconsider the unhelpful and inaccurate message their statements contain when issuing them in the future,” he added. Nigeria Fully Capable Of Dealing With Banditry, Terrorism
In a related development, the presidency has assured Nigerians that the nation’s armed forces are fully capable of dealing with the challenges of banditry and terrorism, urging more patience as the military takes appropriate
steps to block gaps being exploited to unleash mayhem on innocent citizens.
President Muhammadu Buhari had approved a joint military and police operation specifically targeted at combing Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Zamfara and Sokoto states to rid the areas of bandits. In a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu, the president assured that surveillance would be improved, with more night vision aircraft already deployed under “Operation Accord,’’ which was launched three weeks ago. “Nigeria’s military has displayed its capabilities in the past and will show it again by dealing with the current challenges,” the president stated. President Buhari, however, appealed to the people of Katsina Sta- te to be patient and supportive of the ongoing military operations in the state, while sympathising with those who are bereaved, injured and lost properties to the bandits. The president also admonished that taking to the streets for protest could distract the military operati- ons, urging Katsina indigenes not to give up on the military that has a strong track record of quelling cri- ses once given enough time. “The major forests in North Western Nigeria have been identified as home to the bandits in the regi- on. The operation will clear all the- se forests,’’ he said. NAF Aircraft Destroys Bandits‘ Camps In Katsina Meanwhile, the Air Component of Operation HADARIN DAJI has again destroyed some armed ban- dits’ camps in a forest in Katsina State south of Birnin Kogo along
the Katsina-Zamfara boundary area. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, said the air strikes were executed on 15 June 2020as part of missions under the subsidiary Operation ACCORD after Human Intelligence (HUMINT) reports as well as series of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions indicated that some clusters of huts in the area were being used as mini-camps by members of notorious armed bandits’ gang led by one so-called „Adamu Aleiro“.
„Consequently, the Air Component dispatched a force package of Nigerian Air Force (NAF) attack aircraft and helicopter gunships to engage the area, leading to the destruc- tion of three of the targeted camps, some of which were seen engulfed in flames. “Several of the criminals were also neutralized in the process,“ he said.