The director-general, National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC), Otunba Segun Runsewe, has said that African culture has great respect for the sanctity of human life. Runsewe madethe assertion during a memorial organised by NCAC in honour of George Floyd yesterday in Abuja. He said: “We are a peaceful, loving and God-fearing people that detests violence. This is why we are joining the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission to ask for justice for the late George Floyd and to propagate the message of peace all over the world.” According to him, it has become very necessary for Nigeria to join the over 17 countries in Africa to organise memorial for the black American that was murdered in cold blood by the Minneapolis police in United States of America (USA). Recall that George Floyd who was killed while being arrested by the police in the USA and was buried on Tuesday. Meanwhile, in a tribute by the chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, noted that “as a black person, this is a fight we must fight, the DNA of an African runs in you. As a black person, you must aspire to come back to your motherland where you can freely breathe. As a black person, you should think of coming back to Africa/Nigeria to invest in an environment where you can freely breathe as a black person, come back to your home where you will be shown love.” Earlier, a minute silence was observed in memory of George Floyd and all the other black African heroes all over the world who have suffered violent attacks and even death on account of the colour of their skin. This was followed by two brilliant drama presentations titled: “I Can’t Breathe” and “Our Hearts Toughened”; that touched the heart of everybody. The event ended with admonition from Runsewe who said: “We believe that all men are created equal and have inalienable rights among which are rights to life, liberty and pursuit of happiness from Africa to USA, Latin America, Asian, Europe and the Pacific, we say let justice flow; let love reign and let there be peace. 