As Nigeria marks 21 years of unbroken democratic rule today, telecommunications company, Globacom, has urged the people to use the occasion to dwell more on things that will entrench peaceful co-existence and unity in the country. Globacom, while giving the admonition in a goodwill message issued to mark the nation’s Democracy Day, also gave kudos to Nigerian compatriots for keeping the faith as the nation’s democracy continues to evolve, adding that irrespective of differences in tribe, Nigerians should bear in mind that there is power in diversity. The telecommunications firm also called for support for the various levels of government in their bid to advance lasting policies which will impact citizens’ quality of life and further the development of the country. Globacom noted in the message that, “June 12 is a watershed. It stands for a series of events which gave us new heroes of democracy in the 90s.  We must remember that some of our fellow compatriots laid down their lives, paying the ultimate sacrifice before the country’s democracy stabilised. “In order for the labour of Nigeria’s heroes of democracy not to be in vain, we must ensure that the federating units of this great nation unite and work assiduously towards maintaining the peace and mutual co-existence that we have enjoyed since we returned to civil rule in 1999.” Globacom reiterated that, “the only everlasting honour that we can give to the fallen heroes of democracy is to keep that unity intact and ensure that we harness our human and material resources towards building a truly nation.” Maintaining that there could never be development in the absence of peace, the company averred that Nigeria is a nation of vibrant, diligent and hardworking people who are making laudable footprints anywhere they find themselves across the globe. “We should therefore determine to sustain the territorial integrity of the country no matter what it takes,” Globacom opined. The company also enjoined Nigerians to support the government and its agencies to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. “As we strive to lift the nation to greatness, let us unite to chase out Covid-19 from Nigeria by following the guidelines given by the World Health Organisation as well as the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)”, the company stated. Such guidelines include “constant washing of hands with soap under running water, using of alcohol-based sanitisers and maintaining social distancing.”