Berger Paints Nigeria (BPN) Plc has posted a revenue of N1.078 billion for the first quarter, ended March 31, 2020 despite the inclement operating environment. Also, the company has set up Berger Swift Painting (BSP) to deliver quicker, neater and smoother painting to fur globalise its operations. The revenue was 35 per cent above the N797.622 million posted in the corresponding period of 2019. The company ended the quarter with profit before tax of N97.8 million and profit after tax of N67 million. The company said it expects an improved performance going forward following the launch of Berger Swift Painting, which is expected to carve a niche for BPN’s service delivery and upscale the company’s competitive edge.
As an innovative and customer-focused company, Berger Paints is to deliver quicker, neater and smoother painting in the most efficient and effective way with the use of mechanised and advanced tools. Market watchers said that the Swift Painting, the first of its type in Nigeria, is expected to carve a niche for the company’s service delivery and upscale its competitive edge. They also believe that the new service will enhance customers’ satisfaction and comfort.
Speaking on the breakthrough, managing director and chief executive officer of the Company, Mr Anjan Sircar explained that the new service was born out of the company’s ingenuity and constant quest for innovative products and services. Describing Berger Swift Painting as a revolution, Sircar noted that the company had always been on the forefront of trail brazing in products and service delivery. “Berger Swift Painting is a new concept in the Nigerian Painting Industry. The concept is expected to revolutionise the Industry in Nigeria. Berger Paints Nigeria Plc is the first paint company to offer this novel service in Nigeria. The new service will completely change the process of painting in the country. “It will ultimately make project execution quicker, neater and smoother. You do not have to worry about paint spillage or dusts on the furniture, there is on-site support to help move and cover your furniture to ensure your space remain neat. Berger Swift Painters are well trained, well kitted and safety conscious. “They follow all hygiene protocols to ensure safety of lives and properties. This is more apt at this period of Covid- 19 Pandemic. The painters will properly sanitize their hands and use appropriate nose masks,” said Sircar. Apart from havoc posed by substandard products in the Nigerian Paint Industry, prolonged duration of painting, dusty environment while painting and poor finishing are other challenges faced by customers. The introduction of Berger Swift Painting Service will solve all these militating challenges by delivering quicker, neater and smoother painting. The new service from BPN’s stable is expected to bring Nigeria at par with the Western World in the area of quality service delivery.