The Defence Headquarters has said that no repentant Boko Haram Terrorists combatant who has been reintegrated into the society will evade arrest if he reneged on the pledge. The Coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche stated this while briefing journalists on the armed forces of Nigeria operations particularly the Operation Safe Corridor which is tasked with the Deradicalisation, Rehabilitation and Reintegration (DRR) process of ex- Boko Haram Terrorists combatants . The Coordinator noted that as part of the DRR process , the ex-combatants are administered an oath of allegiances to be of good conduct. He said the National Identity Management Commission being one of the 17 agencies involved in the DRR process captures all repentant combatants on its data making it easy for them to be traced in any unfortunate incident. “The Operation Safe Corridor has put in place measures to fill the existing gap in the system that gave rise to the menace” “Gleaning from the concept and conduct of Operation SAFE CORRIDOR, it is not a process of assembling raw repentant ex-combatants to inject back into the society by the Military. Rather, it is an international best practice for conflict management backed by relevant laws with the concurrence of key stakeholders such as international organizations and MDAs among others. “Since its inception in 2016, OPSC has admitted 893 ex-combatants for the Programme out of which 280 including 2 Chadians have been successfully reintegrated back into the society through their respective national and state authorities. “Presently, there are 603 of them undergoing the DRR Programme and would be graduating by July 2020” he said He said the Operation has recorded successes contrary to views of critics. “The Operation is a success story as feedbacks from those reintegrated are positive. A particular one in Bama who learnt barbing as a vocation has successfully empowered 4 locals and is happily married with children” Also the Coordinator Operation Safe Corridor Maj Gen BM Shafa reacting to critical views alleging neglect of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and providing succour to their aggressors said the federal government is concerned with the needs of the victims and the perpetrators as well. He said the repentant Boko Haram Terrorists combatants are given a second chance at life just as the IDPs are being catered for.