The Savannah Center for Diplomacy, Democracy and Development has urged federal government to devise realistic strategies to combat the spate of banditry and insurgent activities in the north-west and across the country. Addressing the media, the Acting Executive Director of the SCDDD, Ambassador Sani S. Bala, while noting the increased activities of bandits and insurgents have stretched the Nigerian Armed Forces thin, says security agencies ignoring the affected communities will further exacerbate the situation. “Media report indicate that in some instances, the bandits spend hours ravaging the communities without any response from the police or other security agencies,” says Bala. Present consequences of government’s strong intervention in the unrest, the center noted include ‘barbaric killing of innocent women, children and the elderly and the increased displacement of people, now seen about neighbouring towns of affected communities. Bala warns that with commercial farmers forced to abandon their farms in the north-west for fear of being kidnapped or killed by bandits now poses a greater threat to food security in the country. “There is a clear indication that Nigeria is going to face serious food shortages this year,” he adds. He adds that rather than wish away the agitations by youths of these communities’ government should be more responsive by devising a more proactive and realistic approach to fighting challenges posed by bandits and insurgents. “We acknowledge the efforts being made by the security agencies … government should dialogue with the leadership of the demonstrators to douse tension and forge mutual understanding on how to fight the bandits and put an end to their senseless actions,” urges the Acting ED. To youth demonstrators the center calls for patience and to exercise their rights within the limits of the law. “We appeal to the youths to ensure that they employ lawful means in expressing their grievances and should not resort to violence. They should give government the chance to respond to their grievances; issuance of ultimatums and threats will only compound the problems,” cautions the center. 