Recent developments as it concerns the preparation for the forthcoming governorship election in Edo State leaves no one in doubt of the generally accepted saying that in politics “there are no permanent friends nor permanent foes, only permanent interest.” This is more apt when one considers the predicament of the incumbent governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, who was disqualified by his own hitherto political party, the ruling All Progressive Party (APC).
It is no longer news that Obaseki is now out of the party, as he strives to achieve his dream of a second term bid. But what is, however, very interesting is that the man who many had perceived as a gentleman, at least, having earned a living throughout his business career as a stockbroker, can also swim in the murky waters of Nigerian politics. For those not familiar with the tradition of the capital market where Obaseki practiced and retired before he was invited to his hitherto “political party” by the former national chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, stockbrokers are called “Gentlemen of the City”, a title they earned and are so proud of, just as the lawyer will proudly call himself a learned person while the rest of us are only educated because of the assumption that a stockholder’s word is his bond. By implication, a stockholder whether practicing or former is believed to be a man of integrity whose yes is yes and no means no. This is the class where eminent personalities like the late Gamaliel Oforitsenere Onosode, indeed belonged. However, in politics worst still in the Nigerian situation, gentility or integrity appears to have become a very scarce commodity, hence those who hitherto paraded themselves as gentlemen of the city changes their colour when they get involved. While one is not out to question or place a verdict on the decision of the APC to disqualify one of its own seen by many as doing well, one cannot but submit that what is currently at play is no longer the interest of the Edo people but personal interest of those at the central stage of the game. The real issue of concern here includes questioning the rationale behind the do-or-die politics in Nigeria. When will our political leaders become gentlemanly enough to honour their words? When will they for the sake of integrity quit the scene and be counted as gentlemen, when it seems that the system which brought them up is no longer in agreement with their convictions?
When will our politicians become persons who are convinced of an ideology and will stay and defend their ideological convictions even at a time when it doesn’t suit their interest? Of a truth, one can’t stop wondering why a trained and respected “gentleman of the city” will be considering dining and wining with his hitherto perceived foes. The thought of Obaseki leaving the APC, a party that brought him from obscurity to the limelight to join the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) just to secure a second term ticket makes any right thinking mind wonder if he is still a “gentleman of the city” that he used to be when he was a stockbroker trading stocks on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). How time and politics change people in Nigeria. This perhaps is why many Nigerians argue bitterly on conduct in Nigeria’s political terrain. The turn of events in the Edo politics reminds one of the Italian politician, Benito Mussolini, who became the fascist dictator of Italy from 1925 to 1945. History has it that Mussolini, who originally was a revolutionary socialist, forged the paramilitary fascist movement in 1919 and became prime minister in 1922.
Called “Il Duce” (the leader) by his countrymen or simply “Mussolini,” he allied himself with Adolf Hitler during World War II, relying on the German dictator to prop up his leadership. Critics of those sympathising with the cause of the incumbent governor, point to how Obaseki allegedly humiliated APC chieftains after he emerged as governor. They also argued that even Comrade Oshiomhole and others who believed on Obaseki’s integrity and paved the way for him to emerge the candidate of the party in the first place were not spared of his sudden change of political tactics. Party faithful are still shock over how his relationship with Oshiomhole quickly gone sour considering that the governor served as his special adviser for eight years before he succeeded Oshiomhole against all odds. The unfolding scenario in Edo has made some stakeholders in the state to begin to compare Obaseki as the Benito Mussolini of Edo, arguing that the governor and the deputy governor, Philip Shuaibu, had hidden agenda from inception. Those in this school of thought believe that the governor and his deputy were out to work against the ruling APC in the state as they intend to build an empire devoid of confrontation and correction. Going back to 1845, Benito didn’t just emerge an autocratic ruler; he stylishly won the facist heart by loyalty. Working according to his suspected plan, the governor and his deputy are alleged to have betrayed the trust of not just the APC members but that of Comrade Oshiomhole, the man who paved the way for them to stardom. Oshiomhole, perhaps, was carried away by the governor’s brilliancy as his economic adviser and vouch for him considering his intelligence more than his loyalty. The question many people have asked is if Obaseki had any ulterior motive, why did he
that constitute the legislature even when all the members were from the APC? The situation got worse when all the committees set up at the national level to mediate in the state crisis, at least, to rescue the party failed. At a point, the National Assembly considered taking over the legislation of the state affairs with a view to salvaging the right of the people to be represented. At present, more than half of the state is not represented in the lawmaking process even though the members were duly elected. At the peak of the battle, Oshiomhole nearly lost his office when the governor in connivance with some aggrieved governors under the platform alongside other members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) used every instrument at their disposal to remove him as APC national chairman. When Oshiomhole won that battle and the governor didn’t move towards reconciliation, it was clear that he would run into trouble, which indeed occurred. However, the Appeal Court affirmation of the suspension of Oshiomhole on Tuesday was the climax of the battle initiated by Obaseki, the fruits of which he did not wait to enjoy by his hasty resignation and rumoured defection to the PDP, the same day the judgement was delivered. The traducers of Obaseki also accused him of attempting to bring down all perceived political enemies and the opposition. They cited the unwarranted attack on Captain Idahosa Okunbo to buttress their claims. The Edo State-born oil magnate and trained commercial pilot, Captain Okunbo, came under serious attack in the media recently by persons suspected to be agents of the Edo administration due to speculations that he intended to join the governorship race under the platform of the APC. Okunbo became a target of those sympathetic to the governor’s cause simply because of speculations that considering his personality and goodwill among the people of the state, Oshiohmole was prepping him as a better opponent to Obaseki. But Okunbor did not pick up the APC’s form for expression of interest. He had earlier cleared the air when Okunbor publicly disclosed that he had never nursed the ambition of becoming Edo governor. When the curtain drew close on nomination by parties for aspirants for the Edo governorship election, Obaseki is hurriedly courting the PDP for its ticket announced on national television after a visit to Presidential Villa on Tuesday that he had resigned from the APC. In a response to his decision, the APC accepted his resignation and wished him well in his new found home. There are, however, worries that the governor may not get the PDP’s ticket and if he does, whether he could win the governorship election in September on his new political platform? This analysis chose not to focus on the Oshiomhole factor in the entire crisis based on the recent verdict of the appellate court.