The Acting Surveyor General of the Federation, Surv. Taiwo Adeniran, has stated that Nigeria requires about 265 Continuously Operating Reference Stations (CORSs) to monitor the country and generate adequate Geospatial data for effective planning and economic prosperity. Revealing this to LEADERSHIP in Abuja, the Surveyor General said based on studies carried out, a master plan regarding where and where to mount the stations within the required distance range was drawn, indicating that the giant of Africa, with its vast geographical space, would require about 260 to 265 COR Stations cover the entire country for adequate and accurate geospatial data. “But what we have now is far too few, I think about 17, and as such we cannot generate any geospatial data or information near our potentials,” he lamented. According to him, other countries like South Africa that have already the facility, up to their coastal lines, are making huge money out of Nigeria in exchange for the required geospatial data. Surv. Adeniran noted that to have this number of stations across the country requires huge investment in terms of fund as it entails several associated responsibilities such as providing constant electricity supply, ensuring that the stations are accessible even as a lot of them will be located in the bush or far remote areas, ensuring clear horizon so the masts are not eclipsed by forest vegetational canopy or high tension wires, but positioned to communicate directly with satellite, ensuring security to avoid vandalism and consequent disruption of service among others.
He said what is required is for government is to muster the will in funding the project of surveying and mapping in the country, since the development and prosperity of any nation is tied to the information it has about its enviromental potentials, adding that about 2½ per cent of Nigeria’s annual budget may be required in this regard. Surv. Adeniran who was very appreciative of the interest of President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who oversees the affairs of the Office of the Surveyor General of the Federation (OSGoF), in the geospatial project said his office was already working on some projects aimed at bringing up to standard the country’s surveying and mapping system to the socio-economic advantage of the country. “For instance, we already have Climate Change Division and a Department of Geodesy in view of the global warming effect which will enable OSGoF monitor basic weather conditions and feed NIMET with accurate information, and we are also working on flood impact assessment system” he said.