There is growing apprehension over the spending of COVID-19 funds in the states, with some Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) calling for accountability in the disbursement of the said funds. This is coming just as the governors managing the crisis in the states have said that they will ensure accountability in the spending of the funds donated by Nigerians and the federal government. The inability of some state governments to give account of funds donated by private firms, individuals and federal government in the fight against coronavirus has raised many unanswered questions. Stakeholders have expressed worry over the failure of some states to create an accountability framework from inception to account for all the funds being received. In separate interviews with LEADERSHIP, they also called for total accountability of the utilisation and distribution of funds while urging government to record and pro-actively publish all distributed funds so that impartial and objective verification can be carried out. The executive director, Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), Idayat Hassan, said despite the fact that states did not receive equal support, there should be no excuse for lack of accountability. She said, “One, the federal government is not clear on the COVID-19 spending itself, so what do we expect at the state level where there is so much opacity? It is also good to put it in proper perspective, that the states did not receive equal support. So we can’t compare the support received by Lagos and Kano to what Jigawa or Ekiti received. However, that should be no excuse for lack of accountability. The problem is states did not create any accountability framework from inception to account for funds received “However it is not too late to build trust with citizens. The governors are by now aware that the only challenge to the COVID-19 response is a lack of trust and previous history of corruption. I do hope they take the bull by the horn and immediately account for the resources before the ICPC or EFCC land at their doorsteps.” Also speaking, the executive director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC)/ Transparency International, Musa Awwal Rafsonjani said in times of global public emergency, proactive measures to ensure judicious utilisation and distribution of funds are needed more than ever, adding that inclusion of media and other accountability entities in the Committee would compel transparency and accountability in the utilisation and dissemination of funds. He said, “At this critical juncture, Nigeria cannot afford the mismanagement and misappropriation of public and donated funds. “While we monitor with keen interest response of various authorities to commitment of the federal government towards alleviating impacts of the newly pronounced lockdown in some states, we demand sincere effort to ensure relief materials and other financial and material assistance are deployed accordingly to citizens irrespective of their socio-economic status with holistic and transparent strategy to adequately appropriate relief package to citizens at the grassroots level”. Rafsonjani observed that ongoing developments had further revealed the government’s inadequate preparedness and capacity to mitigate impacts of the pandemic and other national emergency with existing poor national storage capacity for food and other basic needs to respond adequately. He further called on the states, federal government, relevant authorities and anti-graft institutions to ensure proper accountability in the utilisation and distribution of the donated funds. “All distributed funds need to be recorded and pro-actively published so that impartial and objective verification is enabled. We also call on the civil society, media and all well-meaning citizens to constructively monitor and report progress as events unfold.” Adding, he said, “Any money, any material or anything that has to do with COVID-19, we demand for full accountability of it. Unfortunately both the federal government and the state governments have collected donations, contributions, loans and also used public money in the name of palliatives and coronavirus, but unfortunately neither the federal government or state governments has been able to give out information to Nigerians on how this money has been used and where and when or what facilities or equipment, or palliatives are given to Nigerians. “Hospitals are not being upgraded; they are still in the situation they used to be; the facilities are not being improved because some wicked public officials are interested in using the COVID-19 issue to enrich themselves. This is why they are not able to publish the expenses on how they have used the money they collected both at the state and federal levels.” On his part, the executive director of Yiaga Africa, Barr Samson Itodo, charged citizens to continue to raise questions on funding for COVID-19 as part of efforts to hold government to account. According to him, „This is the dark side of the government‘s response to the pandemic. Citizens need to continue to raise questions on funding for COVID-19 as part of efforts to hold the government to account. Government owes Nigerians an explanation for the spending and sources of income. It will be crass irresponsibility for our political class to make a fortune out of a misery that has claimed lives and left over 14,000 people infected.“ In Imo State, the governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma has not left anyone in doubt of his determination to check the spread of the raging global coronavirus pandemic in the state. Apart from establishing a number of isolation centres and equipping them with necessary medical facilities to contain the spread of the virus, he has also provided and distributed many modern functional ambulances to these centres. Chairman of the Taskforce on COVID-19 in the state, Prof. Maurice Iwu and his team are indeed, working round the clock in this direction and the lockdown coupled with the curfew imposed in the state have tremendously assisted to contain the spread. Although the chairman of the COVID-19 Taskforce, Professor Maurice Iwu, declined to give the exact figures so far injected in the onslaught against the pandemic, a highly placed source at the corridors of power confided in our correspondent that the state government had so far spent over N500 million. The source who would not want his name in print said: “My brother, it is difficult for me to give you the accurate amount the government has spent in the fight against the COVID-19. Either get in touch with the chairman of the Task Force or the state Accountant General for this, but I doubt if they will oblige you because, as you know, the state government would not want to do anything that will elicit public outcry. The government has spent a lot and is still spending”. Further enquiries revealed that over 50% of the money came from government coffers while some public spirited individuals, corporate bodies, organization and Industries assisted and even donated hand washing plastic buckets, soap and sanitizers. Speaking to our correspondent, an aide to Governor Hope Uzodimma Chief Iwunna Obikwere said that the state government is losing sleep over the presence of the pandemic in the state and that funds being channelled to tackle it had led to the suspension of the execution of some projects. In Bayelsa State, the COVID-19 committee confirmed that the sum of N238million was received from donors to support the state government in its efforts to curtail the epidemic that has recorded over four deaths in the state. Attempts to speak with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health and the deputy chairman of the State COVID-19 committee, Dr.Inodu Opoku, failed as he refused to answer inquiries from our correspondent. But in a pictorial chart made available by the acting chief press secretary to the governor, Mr. Dan Alabra, the state government has received cash donations of N238 million from corporate organizations and private persons. In the chart, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and Sterling Bank emerged the highest donors of N100million each,followed by the United Bank of Africa with N28.5million. Also listed as a donor is the immediate past governor of the state, Hon Seriake Dickson, with N10million. In Borno, the government said it had expended a total sum of N201 million on COVID-19 containment and related issues since the outbreak of the pandemic. According to the state‘s commissioner of health who is also the chairman, High Powered Response Team for the Prevention and Control of COVID-19, some of the funds were spent on logistics and equipment such as new testing laboratories. In Sokoto State, the commissioner for health and chairman, state task force on COVID-19, Dr Muhammad Ali Inname, has said it was too early in the day to start thinking of accounting for monies spent on the ongoing fight against the pandemic. Dr Inname however said his committee was very prudent with whatever that has come to them. In Benue State, the Action Committee on COVID-19 could not give the exact amount spent so far in tackling COVID-19 pandemic, but an insider who told our correspondent on condition of anonymity that the Committee is still spending money, so it is after the pandemic is over that they will be able to give the exact amount spent. In tackling the COVID-19 pandemic in Benue State, Governor Samuel Ortom first of all set up the Action Response Committee on COVID-19 which at its inception was headed by the Commissioner for Health and Human Services Dr Sunday Ongbabo. Governor Ortom noted that N76 million was already released to the Action Committee on COVID- 19 and a Hilux vehicle to facilitate its operations. After a while the governor also announced the release of additional N100 million to the committee. In another instance, Governor Ortom while commending the State Action Committee for a job well done also announced the approval of additional N50 million to enable the committee do more. In Taraba State, while the commissioner for health, Dr Innocent Vakai, who also doubles as the chairman of the Action Committee against COVID-19 Spread,   did not pick his phone to confirm how much the committee had spent on containing the virus in the state. His committee member and commissioner for information and orientation, Barr Danjuma Adamu, told our correspondent that the information can only be obtained while the committee is briefing journalists at the usual press briefing. In Lagos, in a bid to show transparency and accountability in the management of funds and donations in the state which, the state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu recently released the names of individuals and corporate organisations that donated to the state government towards the fight against the pandemic. The donations, which are in cash and materials such as hospital items, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), ambulances, respirators, isolation facilities and food items to support the vulnerable and the needy during the period of lockdown, were acknowledged by the governor in a widely circulated advertisement published in some major national newspapers. Giving hints on expenditure so far, the state commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi said efforts to flatten the curve of coronavirus pandemic in the state were still on, saying it had conducted over 16,000 COVID-19 tests so far at the average cost of N40,000 to N50,000. In Plateau State, the government has spent the total of N20,320,000 on testing COVID- 19 patients. Relevant government officials, however, declined to give the total figure of the amount it had spent on containing the virus. The state governor, Simon Lalong said so far a total number of 2,032 people had been tested for COVID-19 in the state, adding that each test costs the government N10,000. He pointed out that the state government was still spending money on the COVID-19 pandemic because it is not yet over. . In Kaduna, the state government has commended individuals, firms and agencies that had made  cash donations amounting to  N641 million to its COVID-19 fund as of last month. Muyiwa Adekeye, special adviser on Media and Communication to Governor Nasir el-Rufai, had recently expressed deep appreciation to First Lady  Aisha Buhari for donating food items as palliatives to low income earners and vulnerable people in the state. LEADERSHIP learnt that BUA Group, United Bank for Africa (UBA), Bank of Industry, Nigerian Breweries and others made cash donations, while Dangote Foundation, Flour Mills, Olam and Nestle have provided support in kind. Also, government appointees including the governor and civil servants have also donated part of their salaries to the fight against the pandemic in the state. In Kwara, the state government has so far received N230m  cash donations  in its efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. However, as at the time of this report, the actual amount the government had so far spent on containing the deadly virus could not be ascertained. All efforts to get the figure from the spokesman of the state‘s technical committee on COVID-19, Rafiu Ajakaye who is also the chief press secretary to the state governor proved abortive. But the state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, had hinted that the state had not spent a dime from the N230m cash donations, saying that the situation will remain like that until the state House of Assembly gives a legal backing to spending the funds. The BUA Group‘s chairman, Abdulsamad Rabiu, donated N100m to the state’s campaign against COVID-19 pandemic, a few weeks after he initially donated N1bn to some frontline states, including Kwara, for the same purpose. In Niger, last week, the Secretary to Niger State government  (SSG) and chairman of the state‘s Taskforce on COVID-19,  Alhaji Ahmed Matane, told the state assembly that the task force had expended N795 million to fight coronavirus. The state House of Assembly had invited the SSG to explain why the affairs of the taskforce was shrouded in secrecy and carried out without some members of the task force. The SSG also disclosed that the state had not received any money from the federal government for COVID-19 activities. According  to Matane,  N410 million was expended on palliatives, N85 million on electricity subsidy, while the remaining amount was expended on logistics of taskforce members, movement of patients from the local government centres to the isolation centres, providing water, allowances for volunteers, security operatives, front line workers and some members of the task force. The chairman of the COVID-19 task force in Niger State said that N290 million was expended for medicals  like  Personal Protective  Equipment (PPEs), drugs, capacity building for health workers,  communication and travelling for health workers. On money received so far as donations, he added that the task force got N47 million from individuals and corporate organisations. In Ekiti, though there is not much information about the actual amount Ekiti State Government had so far spent in the fight against coronavirus, the state has, however, received millions of naira, food items and medical equipment in donations from individuals and corporate bodies. When called to speak on how much the state had spent to contain the spread of the disease in the state, the Commissioner for Health, Dr (Mrs) Mojisola Yaya-Kolade did not pick calls put across to her. As at May, 2020, the state government disclosed that it has received a total N631 million from the Covid-19 Response Resource Mobilization Committee set up to raise and manage funds and projects to aid the government‘s fight against the spread of the virus in the state. The said amount, according to the coordinator of the State COVID-19 Taskforce, Professor Bolaji Aluko, was raised by the committee from 535 Ekiti sons and daughters. In Rivers State, the Civil Society Situation Room on COVID-19 has said it will be unfair to ask the state government to account for funds spent when the fight to lower the curve of the pandemic was still on. Media secretary of the group, Comrade Green Isaac, who disclosed this while speaking with LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt, said civil society will be able to probe into how much was spent by the state government after the fight might have been won. Isaac said, „Well, as at this moment, we cannot say that the Rivers State government has spent so so and so amount of money. We are still lurking up our fingers and hoping that after this whole thing, we will be able to poke into how much the government has spent.  FG to inject N2.3trn into economy to tackle post-COVID-19 recession Meanwhile, the federal government has settled for a stimulus package of N2.3 trillion to mitigate the effect of a foreseeable post-COVID-19 recession. LEADERSHIP gathered that funding for the incentive would be accessed from multiple sources in a one-year economic sustainability plan. The N2.3 trillion stimulus package option was arrived at after the four different options to stimulate the economy and reduce the effect of a likely economic recession presented by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo-led Presidential Economic Sustainability Committee (ESC) were considered. A document of the economic recovery plan tagged, ‘Bouncing Back: Nigeria Economic Sustainability Plan’, sited by our correspondent yesterday quoted the committee as saying that “with no stimulus, i.e., if the federal government simply stick to its 2020 budget, the economy will decline by minus 4.40% at best. On the option of just going for a N500 billion stimulus package, it said the economy will decline by minus 1.94%, just as it settled for third the option which suggested that with a stimulus of N2.3 trillion, the economic decline will be lower at minus 0.59%. There was also the last option which suggests that with a stimulus of N3.6trillion there will still be negative growth but only of -0.42%, but the option was dropped for reasons that were not explained. In drawing its conclusion, the federal government decided that “given our limited fiscal space and the scale of our economic challenge, the federal government has opted for the stimulus package of N2.3 trillion”. It said it will obtain the resources for the stimulus from Special Accounts as follows: N500 billion and N1.11 billion from Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) structured lending as well as portions of the resources to be obtained from external bilateral/multilateral sources, and N334 billion and other funding sources, N302.9 billion. The government said the time-tested approach to fighting a recession is a stimulus package, adding that “the size of the stimulus package will usually determine how shallow or deep the recession would turn out to be.” The Economic Sustainability Plan aims to “mitigate the effects of a deep recession, while ensuring social stability and addressing long-standing economic vulnerabilities” as envisaged in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) the government said. Justifying the decision, the federal government said, “While a stimulus package is a good start, we recognise that merely spending without increasing production will only fuel inflation. “We therefore need a simple but big vision that focuses on retaining and creating jobs and increasing productivity.” The Economic Sustainability Plan which will last for one year focuses on achieving mass employment and mass domestic production, which are not dependent on importation or foreign exchange expenditure. The committee is also of the view that in a situation where non-oil revenues are sustained at the lower level projected in the revised budget estimates, the total allocations to FAAC for the rest of the year would then be around N485 billion a month. This time last year, total allocations to FAAC was N669.9 billion monthly. The 19-man committee said the best way to beat the triple problem of very low foreign exchange, huge unemployment and negative growth is by focusing on Mr. President’s mantra: ‘to produce what we eat and eat what we produce.’ Other signature programmes recommended by the committee include mass social housing, using local materials, installing solar power in five million homes, and providing assistance to daily-paid and self-employed workers, including petty traders, artisans like bricklayers, vulcanisers, and electricians as well as commercial drivers and barrow-pushers. Many businesses have suffered severe losses due to the lockdowns and have had to decide on laying off staff. The federal government said it has developed a strategy to ensure that as many as possible do not collapse and are able to retain their staff. The committee’s mandate was to develop a clear Economic Sustainability Plan in response to challenges posed by the COVID-19 Pandemic; identify fiscal measures for enhancing distributable oil and gas revenue, increasing non-oil revenues and reducing non- essential spending, towards securing sufficient resources to fund the plan; Propose monetary policy measures in support of the Plan; Articulate specific measures to support the States and FCT among others.  Saudi Arabia Considers Cancelling 2020 Hajj Saudi Arabia is reportedly considering canceling the 2020 hajj exercise due to the coronavirus pandemic. The cancellation would mark the first time in modern times that Muslims didn’t travel to the holiest of Islamic cities during the five- to six-day pilgrimage held at the end of July. Over two million Muslims make the trip each year. “The issue has been carefully studied and different scenarios are being considered. An official decision will be made within one week,” a Saudi senior official told the Financial Times. Health concerns have led to the cancellation or delay of major events worldwide, including the Olympic Games in Tokyo and, possibly, the Super Bowl. The Saudi government acted fast to institute a lockdown after the first case in the country was confirmed on March 2, but cases have spiked recently with the easing stay-at-home orders. There have been more than 3,000 daily cases reported over the last six days while at least 893 have died from the virus, according to Johns Hopkins data. The Financial Times reported that officials are considering allowing a small number of locals to perform hajj under strict public health measures. However, head, public affairs, National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), Fatima Sanda Usara, insisted that no official decision has been taken on the 2020 Hajj by the Saudi authorities. Chairman of NAHCON, Alhaji Zikrullah Kunle Hassan, recently admonished Nigerian intending pilgrims to accept whatever decision taken by the Saudi government as the will of Allah, noting that the religion of Islam places more value on life than any religious rites, while also assuring that the commission was taking great steps to ensure the welfare of pilgrims whether the 2020 Hajj holds or not.  Clinical Trials Underway To Evaluate Plasma Of Recovered Patients As Nigeria joins the global community to commemorate this year‘s World Blood Donor Day, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said clinical trials are underway to evaluate the effectiveness of using plasma from the blood of recovered COVID-19 patients to reduce the severity of illness among people infected with COVID-19. It expressed concern that in the COVID-19 pandemic, the supply of safe blood is at risk. „Regular blood donation drives are being postponed, and stay-at-home orders and fear of infection are preventing donors from accessing services,“ the global health body said. It worried that disruptions to the global supply chain also put countries at risk of shortages of critical supplies and equipment needed for blood donation and transfusion. WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti, who made the call yesterday in her message to mark the 2020 World Blood Donor Day (WBDD), said that safe blood was a critical resource in severe infant anaemia, postpartum hemorrhage and trauma care. She also said that safe blood was vital in surgeries and the treatment of malaria, sickle cell disease, thalassemia, inherited blood disorders, and AIDS. Noting that clinical trials were underway to evaluate the effectiveness of using plasma from the blood of recovered COVID-19 patients to reduce the severity of illness among people infected with COVID-19, Moeti said this approach was used by Guinea in the Ebola epidemic in 2014, prior to the availability of Ebola vaccines and therapies. He continued: „This World Blood Donor Day, I urge governments, in collaboration with blood donor associations and nongovernment organizations, to increase investment in blood transfusion services in line with WHO guidance. „On 14 June every year, the African Region joins the global community in celebrating World Blood Donor Day, because blood donors give the gift of life, and more lives will be saved if more people volunteer to donate blood on a regular basis. “This year we are calling on people to give blood and make the world a healthier place” because by regularly volunteering to donate blood, we can all contribute to solidarity and saving lives“.  Resident Doctors Begin Nationwide Strike Today Meanwhile, the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) is set to commence its nationwide strike as the 14 days given the federal government by the association to meet its demands elapse yesterday. National President of NARD, Dr Aliyu Sokomba, had threatened last week that „consequent upon the 14 days ultimatum duly served the Federal Government for indefinite strike action, in accordance with the resolution of the Ordinary General Meeting of the Association on the 29th of May 2020”, resident doctors, medical officers below the rank of Principal Medical Officer (PMO) and House Officers across all the federal and state hospitals in Nigeria will embark on a total and indefinite strike action today. It listed the demands on which the ultimatum was predicated to include provision of grossly inadequate appropriate Personal Protective Equipment for all healthcare workers, immediate reversal of the illegal disengagement of all 26 resident doctors in Jos University Teaching Hospital, and the payment of all salaries owed them in keeping with provisions of the Medical Residency Training Act. Others are universal Implementation of the Medical Residency Training Act in all federal and state hospitals and ensuring pay parity among doctors of equal cadre, immediate implementation of the revised hazard allowance and payment of the COVID-19 inducement allowance as agreed with by the federal government and healthcare workers three months ago. Others include the provision of funding for Medical Residency Training in the 2021 Appropriation bill, payment of all arrears owed members in federal and states tertiary health institutions, arising from the consequential adjustment of the National minimum wage, stoppage and immediate refund of all illegal, unjust and callous cut in salaries of members by Kaduna State and other state governments. But the minister of Health, Dr  Osagie Ehanire, had said that the grievances of NARD was being addressed. Ehinare said, “On the issue of welfare and allowances to frontline health workers, conversations have been held with the Ministry of Finance, agencies and health-related associations. „Complaints on availability of PPEs have been addressed with supply of materials to States and Federal Medical Centers.  The disengaged Resident Doctors at the University of Jos Teaching Hospital have been recalled by the Board of Governors” indicating that the Federal Government has been working to resolve the grievances that the health workers may be habouring.“  Infected Doctors, Other Health Workers Not Up To 82 – Rivers Govt The Rivers State government has said the number of medical doctors and other health workers who tested positive for Coronavirus in the state were not up to 82, as claimed by the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA). NMA chairman in the state, Dr Obubelebara Adebiyi, had while addressing journalists last Friday claimed that 20 medical doctors and over 61 health workers in the state have tested positive for Coronavirus. Adebiyi insisted that the ugly development is due to the non-provision of personal protective equipment (PPEs) for medical doctors and other health workers in the state. But, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt yesterday, the Commissioner for Health, Professor Princewill Chike, said the data provided by the NMA did not match the PCR laboratory data or the numbers on the national data repository of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).  FCTA Shuts Jabi Lake Mall Over Naira Marley‘s Show Meanwhile, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) ministerial task team on COVID-19 has closed down the popular Jabi Lake Mall for violating the presidential task force’s ban on public, social gatherings and the dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed as part of measures to contain the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic in the nation’s. Speaking to journalists men in Abuja after sealing the mall, leader of the ministerial enforcement task team on COVID-19 restrictions, Ikharo Attah lamented that despite many warnings from the presidential task force and the FCT Administration on guide lines to operate, the management of the Jabi Lake mall chose to encourage and permit a concert by their customer, Naira Marley, and also conducting business activities beyond the normal hours allowed by the authorities. He further disclosed that the administration has secured a judgement from a mobile court headed by Magistrate Idayat Akonni who sat in the Mall’s premises in Jabi to seal up the Mall for two weeks for default of the COVID-19 protocols. Attah explained that the seal up order was necessitated by the unlawful and embarrassing event at the mall Friday night. When asked if the FCT administration plans to declare Marley wanted, Attah noted: “He flew in to Abuja Friday from Lagos and returned back same day to the nation’s former capital city. We are convinced that the Lagos state governmentt which in recent past had unpleasant experience with the artist will do the needful since he also breached the interstate travel ban which applies to Lagos State”.