Chairman of Ikwerre local government area of Rivers State, Hon. Samuel Nwanosike, has tasked the media to explore provisions of the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act, to monitor governance at the third tier level of government. This is as he said the Regulation and Control of Grazing Activities In Ikwerre LGA By-Law, 2020, which has become effective in Ikwerre local government area, was aimed at establishing a cordial relationship between cattle owners and farmers in communities in the area. Nwanosike, who spoke with newsmen at Isiokpo, near Port Harcourt, as part of activities marking his second year in office, said with the FOI Act, the media will be able to know when those at the helm of affairs in the local government areas are working and when they are not working. The Council Chairman stated that the Regulation and Control of Grazing Activities In Ikwerre LGA By-Law, 2020, which he recently assented to after it was passed into law by the Legislative Assembly, was not meant to with hunt cattle owners in the area. He said: “We are an agrarian community, we are peasant farmers. We depend on what we get from our farms. The cattle rearers have had a very good relationship with our people lasting for over 100 years. There had not been disputes. Not until these modern day when we had that people from other parts of Africa invade our local communities in the name of cattle rearing. “So, we sat down with security agencies and looked at the issues bedeviling us. We called the attention of the cattle rearers and the communities, including the farmers and land owners and we sat together and proffered a win-win solution. “We brought a framework that will guide cattle grazing in our communities. The grazing by-law was not intended to step on any toes. It is purely a win-win situation for owners of the cattle and the host communities.” Nwanosike stated that the local government council created vigilante groups in order to boost security in the 12 communities that make up the local government area, so as to complement the efforts of Nigerian security agencies. The Council boss said communities in the area, which were hitherto haven for criminal activities including kidnapping, armed robbery and cultism, are now now experiencing peace. He said: “We did not just go into instituting vigilantes on our own, a by-law was properly passed by the 8th Legislative Assembly to give us the backing to create community policing, which is even recognized by the laws of Nigeria, to help security agents who are over-stretched with issues of insecurity in this nation. “Virtually all the 12 communities and 13 wards in Ikwerre local government area are involved in the community policing. I can assure you that it is a worthwhile venture because it is yielding results.”