Despite the current deadline extension in the recapitalisation exercise of the insurance industry to September, 2021, there are moves by most insurance brokers to only give their risk businesses to insurance companies that have fully or mostly recapitalise by December 2020, LEADERSHIP can exclusively reveal. Recall that the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), had last week, extended the deadline for insurance recapitalisation exercise from December 31st, 2020 to September 30, 2021 in a segmented recapitalisation deadline. To this end, insurance companies will have to meet 50 per cent of their paid-up share capital by December 31, 2020 while completing the remaining stake by September 30, 2021. However, investigation shows that brokers are rooting for operators who must have fully recapitalised by December 2020 to place the juicy insurance contracts for 2021 in their possession to them. And with most big players certain to have fully recapitalized by December, 2020, there are insinuations that these juicy insurance contracts could be heading their way, while the low capitalised firms will lose out. Findings show that brokers were looking for well capitalised insurers who will be able to pay claims as and when due and companies that will exist beyond September 2021, as they fear some of the illiquid underwriters might not scale through the recapitalisation hurdle. A source said: “Brokers are saying, they will only reckon with underwriting firms that have fully capitalised by December, 2020 to do business with. This will invariably means, smaller firms who may not have fully recapitlised then, will not be allowed to underwrite risk businesses that comes through the broking arm of the industry. Most of these businesses are renewals and if any operator lose such account now based on this development, it may be difficult to gain it back.” About N150 billion insurance premiums came through the Brokers’ channel into the insurance industry, in the last financial year. Speaking to LEADERSHIP in an exclusive chat, the executive secretary, Nigerian Council Of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) urged low capitalised operators who might be nursing this fear to always be positive. He said, there is no unified agreement among brokers on this development, but that individual broker will always do what will give him or her the best result. To him, “People should focus on the moment and stop bothering themselves on what will happen in 2021. Live for the moment and do the right thing because we don’t have absolute power on what will happen tomorrow. Nobody predicted coronavirus in 2020, yet we are battling with it now. Prior to now, most liquid firms have always been the one writing most of the juicy accounts. Companies should concentrate more on how to recapitalise before the deadline, which is the primary focus and stop bothering on matters they have no control over. Nobody would deny any company business because it has not fully recapitalise by December, 2020, there is no written document to that effect.” He charged operators to always be positive in whatever circumstances they find themselves instead of always seeing the negatives in every situation. In an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP, the Chairman /CEO, Achor Actuarial Services Limited, Dr. Pius Apere, said, placing of insurance business with a particular insurer is subject to market forces, integrity in claims payment, among others, adding that,  the big underwriters have always been the ones taking the larger chunk of risk businesses in insurance industry. Moreover, he stressed that, the statement “Insurance companies that failed to satisfy the required minimum paid-up capital by the end of 31st December 2020 may restricted on the scope of business they will transact” in the recent guidelines on segmentation of recapitalisation introduced by the regulator on 3rd June 2020 have its implications for the small-size insurance companies. The above statement, he said, may create the risk of selection effect, that is, the insuring public including brokers would select against the insurers with low capital base during the next business renewal cycle. “This is because the insuring public would prefer to do business with insurers that have already met the phase 1 of the segmented recapitalization requirement (50% of required minimum paid-up capital for insurers) or already fully recapitalized in the run-up to the business renewal period. The fear of an insurer being restricted to write a class of business in the near future would make the insuring public to be cautious in dealing with small size insurance companies,” he pointed out. Saying that, it is expected that not all insurance companies (particularly the small-size insurers) will be able to meet the 31st December 2020 phase 1 segmented recapitalization deadline as mandated by NAICOM, he added that, there is need for the regulator to introduce a mandatory default (merger/acquisition) option, as plan B, for such insurers (if they have not already put in place such a plan) in the run-up to 31st December 2020. This, he stated, was to avoid the last minute disqualifications by 30th September 2021 that would affect the smooth transitional recapitalisation process. “It should be the responsibility of the affected insurers to have the merger/acquisition plan in place to secure the confidence and trust of the insuring public. The so called restriction of scope of business such companies will transact, to be imposed by the regulator, may not be far-reaching enough to build the insuring public’s confidence not to select against them,” he emphasised.  