The chairman of Oilserv Limited,  Engr. Emeka Okwuosa, has described the participation of indigenous and engineering firms in the execution of $2.8billion Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) pipeline project as a demonstration of the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration Commitment to implemention of the Nigerian Local Policy. He added that the development would create huge value to the nation’s economy as well as the oil and gas industry. Oilserv is leading a group of indigenous and international engineering firms in the construction of the 614 kilometer gas pipeline project which the President Buhari will flag-off today. Engr. Okwuosa who commended the president for the initiative added that the project when completed will lead to the realizaton of the country’s long held dream of building the nation’s biggest domestic gas transmission infrastructure. In a press statement made available to Leadership, the chairman of Oilserv said the concept of the infrastructure is to provide the much needed stimulus to domestic industrial growth. “The president, by the flag off  of this project at Ajaokuta, Kogi State, would be turning to reality some of the nation’s long term economic aspirations of, boosting domestic energy infrastructure, deepening the local gas market etc “This project will also signal the finest hour so far for the Nigerian Content Policy  goals,” he stated. Oilserv is expected to construct 200km gas pipeline from Ajaokuta to Abuja. Part of the statement reads, “The pipeline which was conceived to connect demand from the northern part of the country with supply from the south would be the biggest infrastructure development in the country’s recent history. It will also mark a significant shift in the nation’s energy policy; from revenue targeted export programmes to development focused domestic supply programmes. “Significantly, the $2.8 billion project will break through on the 30th of June after seven years of rigorous processes that morphed from policy conception through implementation strategy designs, master-plans and solid implementation programmes. Perhaps the biggest value to the economy is the participation of indigenous engineering firms led by pipeline giant, Oilserv Limited, in the delivery of some of the phases of the project.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC),  has said that the project will significantly curb gas flaring in the Niger Delta and guarantee better air quality in the oil producing region. Adding that the pipeline project which was conceived to connect demand from the northern part of the country with supply from the south would be the biggest infrastructure development in the country’s recent history. It will also mark a significant shift in the nation’s energy policy; from revenue targeted export programmes to development focused domestic supply programmes.