The proposed June 21 date for the resumption of operations by domestic airlines is no longer be feasible, the federal government has said. This was revealed by the minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, who was reprsented by the the director-general of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority , Capt Musa Nuhu at a Presidential Task Force on COVID -19 briefing in Abuja yesterday. According to him, “the civil aviation authorities, despite pressure from all quarters, will not approve the start “until we are sure and we confirm that we are ready to start in a safe, secure, organised and efficient manner. To do otherwise is disastrous for all of us. “ If we open the industry when we are not ready, and we are guilty of spreading coronavirus, God forbid, we have any incident, I believe the government will come hard on us and it is going to be counterproductive and disastrous for the industry . “ We are not too far , we are close but there is a need for timing to ensure that we are ready , positively , absolutely ready to start work. .”Captain Nuhu further said the authorities have been holding talks with airlines, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, and other stakeholders, and added that feedbacks have been received and concerns are being addressed. The proposed June 21 date for the resumption of operations by domestic airlines is no longer be feasible, the federal government has said. This was revealed by the minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, who was reprsented by the the director-general of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority , Capt Musa Nuhu at a Presidential Task Force on COVID -19 briefing in Abuja yesterday. According to him, “the civil aviation authorities, despite pressure from all quarters, will not approve the start “until we are sure and we confirm that we are ready to start in a safe, secure, organised and efficient manner. To do otherwise is disastrous for all of us. “ If we open the industry when we are not ready, and we are guilty of spreading coronavirus, God forbid, we have any incident, I believe the government will come hard on us and it is going to be counterproductive and disastrous for the industry . “ We are not too far , we are close but there is a need for timing to ensure that we are ready , positively , absolutely ready to start work. .”Captain Nuhu further said the authorities have been holding talks with airlines, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, and other stakeholders, and added that feedbacks have been received and concerns are being addressed.