The minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola has disclosed that 10 federal roads which are to be concessioned under the first phase of the Highway Development and Management Initiative (HDMI) of this administration would attract a capital investment of N163.323bn. According to a statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday, Fashola made the disclosure in his presentation on Public Private Partnership (PPP) on Highway Development and Management Initiative before the joint National Assembly Committee on Works recently. “Ten roads are to be concessioned under the first phase of the HDMI, namely: Benin – Asaba, Abuja – Lokoja, Kaduna – Kano, Onitsha – Owerri – Aba, Shagamu -Benin, Abuja -Keffi – Akwanga, Kano – Maiduguri, Lokoja – Benin, Enugu-Port Harcourt, Ilorin-Jebba,” he said. “The total length of the federal road network is 35,000km, but the proposed project in the first phase will cover a total lenght of 2.275km. “The project will attract a capital investment of N163.323 billion at a cost of about N16 billion each, in addition to about 23,322 jobs that would be created.” Explaining further, the minister said investors are expected to provide streetlights, toll plazas, rest areas, and weighbridge stations. The minister explained that private sector engagement in the development and management of roads is a way of overcoming funding challenge which has hindered road development in the past. He said HDMI was created by his ministry to manage and develop the federal road networks, with the objective of attracting sustainable investment and funding in the development of road infrastructure and to maximise the use of assets along the right of way. He said HDMI was broken into two categories, namely: Value Added Concession (VAC) and unbundled Assets Approval (VAA), adding that the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, (FMWH), Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission,(ICRC), Bureau of Public Procurement, (BPP) and Special Purpose Vehicle Concessionaire were the defined stakeholders to provide the regulatory framework in the implementation. Earlier, chairman Senate Committee on Works, Senator Adamu Aliero, who co -chaired the Joint Session with chairman, House Committee on works, Honourable Buba Abubakar, stated that it was imperative to engage private sector partnership to tackle the bad roads in Nigeria as government alone cannot bear the burden of fixing them. He said the Public Private partnership reduces the financial burden of government thereby allowing funds to be utilised in other relevant social economic sectors. Senator Aliero assured the minister of the support of the National Assembly and promised to provide legislation that will strengthen and protect the laudable investment initiative.