Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has called on people not to shy away from the testing and treatment of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) as it is not a result of any wrong doing and can be gotten by anyone. Wike made the call Monday while receiving a donation of three Covid-19 Life Support Ambulances from the management of Bua Cement Company at Government House, Port Harcourt. The governor appreciated Bua Group for identifying with Rivers people and restated the state government’s commitment to creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. He said, “You have shown you are part and parcel of Rivers State and i want to sincerely commend you. You have shown a difference with your willingness to support Government to save lives.” “We appreciate those who have come to make sure lives are saved and transmission is reduced. We are committed to making the business environment easy for our people.” Wike also revealed the Bua Group had previously donated One Hundred Million Naira (N100,000,000) and a truck load of Four Thousand (4,000) cartons of pasta to the State Government. Presenting the ambulances on behalf of Bua Group its Executive Director, Mr Kalifa Isiaku Rabiu thanked the state government for making Bua’s operation swift in the state. Rabiu said: “I want to assure you that Bua group was committed to supporting the State and the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” He further explained that Bua was donating the ambulances in addition to their previous support. In his remark the Rivers State Commissioner for Health, Professor Princewill Chike, who gave an overview the management of Covid-19 in the state, explained that the state government was taking care of 250 personnel in its Covid-19 team. Chike stated that 3434 samples have been collected, 3084 tests have been carried out, 1056 people have tested positive, 584 people have been discharged, and 38 people have died. He said the number of tests would increase further as the state’s testing capacity is about to be boosted with the addition of four more machines to the five presently operational in the state. 