Unity Bank Plc has said the Covid-19 pandemic may have slowed down its talks with investors, assuring that it is on course with its recapitalisation plans, as it restated its commitment towards funding the agric sector in Nigeria. Speaking at a virtual press conference yesterday, executive director, Finance of the bank, Ebenezer Kolawole, noted that although the global pandemic has changed some of the programmes of the investors as well as the bank in the recapitalisation process, talks are still ongoing. “There are some investors that are supposed to come to Nigeria but they can’t come and there are some that we are supposed to visit, but we are discussing to the extent at which we can converse online  and where we need to exchange documents we are doing that. It (recapitalisation) is a journey and we cannot say a specific time.” Meanwhile it noted that agric sector takes up to 90 per cent of the loan book of the bank, as loan to the sector had grown from N32 billion to N102 billion by the end of last year. The bank had grown its loan books by 135.87 per cent to N104.02 billion in 2019 as against the N44.10 billion it closed in 2018. Kolawole noted that lending to agric sector is critical for the bank as most of its customers are in the agric production and value chain. “We increased the exposure to agric because that is our primary business. All the business we do are generally in the agric sector and therefore the growth in our asset is essentially from agric. “Over 90 per cent of our loan portfolio is in agric. If you look at the sector in terms of foreign exchange, in terms of providing import substitution of food, it is the future. “Therefore we are producing to feed ourselves and in terms of employment we are creating employment through the value chains which are just wide. So we believe that we are systemically important to the nation because of our interest in the agric sector even if we are not yet in that category. “We have created a niche in agribusiness. Our partnership with farmers association has given us a lot of edge in the last two to three years. Agic business is something that the government is laying emphasis on and even before the Covid-19 pandemic we have been a major player not just to the production side but across the value. Meanwhile he noted that in spite of the huge growth in loan book, the bank has been able to maintain a conservative non-performing loan ratio. “By virtue of the processes and the risk management process that we have entrenched in our risk acceptance model, the bank stands today at a conservative 0.9 NPL ratio. We took a proactive analysis on some of these obligors and even it has reduced below that now. We are the best in the industry. We have the most efficient risk assessment in terms of NPL ratios we are strong and better in that regards.” 