The Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) formed by the representatives of the two Principal Religions, Islam and Christianity in Nigeria on the 11th day of September, 1999, and the association having been inaugurated on the 29th day of September, 1999, guided by our divine revelations and the dictates of our CREATOR, determine within the context of our religions, to forge inter-religious harmony and concord within the confines of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to live in unity, harmony and peace for the welfare, security and prosperity of our peoples and our Nation under God (Preamble, Amended Constitution of the Nigeria Inter-Religious Council; 12th March, 2020). Based on this Mission and Vision, NIREC hereby contributes to the ongoing conversation of the DISEASE CONTROL BILL, 2020 as follows: 1. So many people have been reacting to THE HOUSE OF REPS “CONTROL OF INFECTIONS DISEASES BILL, 2020” AND THE SENATE “NIGERIA HEALTH EMERGENCY BILL, 2020”. We observe that the Control of Infectious Diseases Bill, 2020 is intended to repeal the Quarantine Act, 1926. The retention of such century old legislation in our statute books is one of the inadequacies of our legal system. The Bill, therefore, is long overdue given that a 1926 legislation cannot adequately take care of the current challenges. This is more so with the devastating effect of the COVID-19 global pandemic. Probably, the challenges experienced in the course of the fight against the deadly disease made those in authority to think of having a legislation that can meet the current demands in the shortest possible time. 2. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation had worked on sensitization, prevention and control of outbreak of infectious disease such as the present acute respiratory syndrome – coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV2). He has provided vaccines against polio, measles, tuberculosis, Lassa/yellow fever, typhoid, small pox, malaria etc. However, in the present COVID 19 pandemics, we suggest that any vaccine must first undergo intensive and extensive tests, regulations, production, before sale and application. Corona virus vaccine should not be made mandatory for any citizen under any condition. 3. It is not bad to make a law in an accelerated manner if there is urgent need. There was an initial fear that public hearing would not be conducted. Now that public hearing is expected, the fears associated with the Bill should be allayed. The legislators will be engaged on the intendment of inserting some provisions. Stakeholders and the general public can make their inputs and the needful may be done. There is nothing wrong in using the legislation of another country as a precedent. It is just a guide. That forms substantial part of legal drafting. It will only be wrong if the precedent is followed hook, line and sinker or it is just copied and pasted. Religious, cultural, political and other factors such as system of government must be considered. 4. There are also fears that so much power is given to the Director General (DG) of the NCDC which may be used to trample upon liberties of the citizens. Some of the powers include arrest and search without warrant, closure of premises, etc. The Bill should be meant to address challenges during public health emergencies such as the one we have now about COVID-19. Therefore, there is need to critically revisit Section 13, which empowers the DG to arrest and detain, for as long as he desires, any person whom he suspects to have an infectious disease, or to have recovered from one as this may be interpreted as an abuse of human freedom. We call for a rethink since section 37 of the 1999 Constitution guarantees citizens their privacy, their homes, correspondence, telephone conversations and telegraphic communications; and section 34(1) guarantees every individual “respect for dignity of his person”. 5. We recommend strict adherence to the internal mechanisms in the Bill to deal with abuse of powers. Section 3 (1) vests power in the President by order to declare a public health emergency. Section 3 (7) has given the National Assembly the power to pass a resolution annulling the order. Furthermore, the Bill gives right of appeal to the Minister by an aggrieved person on many decisions of the DG. Some of the sections that give such rights include Sections 16, 17 and 19 of the Bill. There are other internal mechanisms such as under Section 24 which is to the effect that destruction of building or things shall be upon a court order. Section 54 (2) (b) provides that any person aggrieved by a seizure under Section 54 (2) (a) may apply to a court which may affirm or disallow the seizure. Apart from the internal mechanisms, there is the constitutional safeguard of enforcement of fundamental rights open to any person that feels his rights have been, are being or are likely to be breached by any person or authority to seek for redress from the appropriate court. 6. We observe that there are provisions of the Bill which are likely to affect religious activities or sensitivities. One of such provisions is that of Section 12 of the Bill which deals with disposal of corpse. Another such provision is that of Section 19 of the Bill which deals with prohibition or restriction of meetings and gatherings. The NASS should avoid inserting provisions that do not take religious sensibilities or federal structure of the country into cognisance. 7. The House of Assembly and House of Representatives should take seriously the reaction of Nigerians to the Quarantine Act (Repeal and Re-enactment) Bill, 2020, which hurriedly passed through the first and second reading in just one day in the House of Representatives. Some legal luminaries have indicated that the Bill is literally copied word-for-word from a Singaporean Act. For some learned lawyers, the Bill sponsored by House Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, Chairman, House Committee on Health Instructions, Pascal Obi and Chairman of the House Committee on Health Services, Tanko Sanunu should be subjected to critical analysis. 8. Parents must not be forced to vaccinate their children at birth, when China, America and other Western nations more affected by Covid-19, have not done so. The resistance to the idea that the Minister of Health is empowered by section 15 of the Bill to declare as and convert any premises (whether public or private) into an “isolation centre” should not be taken for granted. Some people will reject as oppressive when without the authorisation of the Minister of Health, no one would be able to enter or leave such premises. Section 3(8) aids this by empowering the DG, NCDC, his officers or Police, to barge into any premises declared by the President to be a public health restricted zone without any warrant. This section runs violently foul of the provisions of section 43 of the 1999 Constitution, which provides that ‘every citizen of Nigeria shall have the right to acquire and own immovable property anywhere in Nigeria’. 9. Based on the above, the NIGERIA INTER-RELIGIOUS COUNCIL (NIREC) hereby call on the House of Assembly not to pass any bill that would not promote the common wellbeing of the citizens. There are other inadequacies of the Bill such as the appropriate court with jurisdiction to hear cases under the Bill notwithstanding the fact that there is no legislation by human being that can be perfect. The essence of public hearing is to have contributions from stakeholders. If after the public hearing, the Bill is acceptable by majority of Nigerians with the necessary modifications, then, the Bill may scale through. We are aware that unless there is any public health emergency, the powers of the DG may not be invoked for decades but without prudence, any good intention could be abused. His Eminence Alhaji Muhammed Sa’ad Abubakar (CFR), mni
The Sultan of Sokoto and President-General,
Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (SCIA)
CO-CHAIRMAN (NIREC) His Eminence Dr. Samson OlasupoAyokunle
President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN)
CO-CHAIRMAN (NIREC) Fr. Prof. Cornelius Afebu Omonokhua
Executive Secretary (NIREC)