… As Oba of Benin Warns Against Imposition And Forced Consensus Kenneth Imasuagbon, one of the three Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Governorship aspirant, Friday stormed out of a meeting called by some leaders of the party to prevailed on  him to step down for Godwin Obaseki, Leadership gathered. The meeting which was held at the Protea hotel early hour of yesterday came as Godwin Obaseki was formally declared for the People’s Democratic Party, PDP. Imansuagbon popularly referred to as ‘ rice man’ reportedly threatened  to sue the party for its blatant violation of established rules and provisions in the attempt to compel a ‘consensus candidate’ through the imposition of Godwin Obaseki. The PDP had already carried out its screening and set the date for a primary election before the entrance of Godwin Obaseki following his disqualification by the Screening Committee of the All Progressives Congress over discrepancies in his academic credentials – an issue first raised by the Edo PDP. The Governor has held a series of meetings with the national leadership of the PDP in Abuja where he perfected his defection plans. However, the other aspirants in the party, claiming disrespect and illegality, have vowed to fight the attempt by ‘Abuja politicians’ to deny them a chance to run a platform they contributed to its survival for a new entrant who has done nothing for the party or its growth in the state. Another aspirant, Ogbeide Ihama, in a campaign video released by his team, insisted that he is proceeding with his ambition, and will not succumb to pressure to step down for Obaseki. A visibly appalled Ihama recalled his 13 years in the PDP and declared to his spectators that “it is not our portion” to step down for a newbie, throwing jibes to the embattled Godwin Obaseki. Meanwhile, the revered Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II, in a recent Palace Press Release signed by Frank Irabor, the Secretary of the Benin Traditional Council condemned the “twin evil political vices of Godfatherism and consensus arrangement’. “Let everybody take note that the Palace is very wary of the imposition of candidates whom only certain individuals want but the majority of the people do not want. ‘Ghana Must Go’ politics should end in the State. Politicians should stop cashing in on the poor masses and exploiting them for their votes.” 