Amid controversy over the use of chloroquine for the treatment of COVID-19, the vice-chancellor of Chrisland University, Abeokuta, Prof Chinedum Peace Babalola, has disclosed that quinine could be a possible cure for the virus. The professor who stated this while addressing journalists in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, said, “Some of us believe that quinine will work even in severe COVID-19 cases because it is used to treat severe cases of malaria through infusion. One property of quinine is that it has the ability to get to where chloroquine cannot get to. “In the past we were using Chloroquine to treat Malaria, later when the parasite developed some resistance, we moved to Quinine and then combined therapy of Artermisine. “However, what I discovered working on quinine, is that the dose we use in Africa is quite different from the dose they use in the western world. That is so because of pharmacogenetic. We are not wired up the same way.” She noted that there was no need for the controversy surrounding the use of chloroquine to treat COVID-19. The VC said, “A few health institutions have used chloroquine and hydrochloroquine and found it to be effective even though there are still conflicting reports. “Chloroquine can gain entrance into the virus and stop its replication especially in the presence of Zinc. When taking with Zinc, it will penetrate and get to where the virus is and stop it from replication. “Chloroquine is actually used to treat what is called autoimmune disease. Till date, the western world still uses it a lot but we rarely use it in Africa. “In advanced countries, they use Chloroquine to treat autoimmune diseases. Coronavirus is actually an autoimmune disease that triggers off so many things that your immunity must begin to fight off. It becomes war and the body recognises the virus and releases chemicals to fight it off. It becomes what is called a virus storm”. The vice chancellor who is a Pharmacist by training said studies have however shown that chloroquine will only work at certain stages of the virus. According to her, there are about five stages of the virus and chloroquine can stay for a very long time in the body. She continued: “If Chloroquine is in the body, it will not allow the virus to get attached to the body and if the virus is already there, the drug will stop its replication. So at the pre-exposure, to mild or little bit of moderate stages, Chloroquine can still work but when the virus reaches moderate stages affecting the lungs, it cannot work again, you will need a drug that is more invasive, antiviral drugs and that is where quinine comes in. If you look at the cases in Lagos State, these antiviral drugs are used at this stage. ‘’You combine it with other drugs to fight pneumonia so before the cases become severe or degenerates, chloroquine can work.’’ The professor further noted that there are conflicting results concerning the efficacy of chloroquine on COVID-19 because almost 90 per cent of the cases the drug is used at the severe level when it was already too late. She continued: “A lot of things are already happening at this stage, there is coagulation, there is need for a ventilator, so chloroquine may not work at this stage. “We don’t even know if the ventilator works because when it gets to this stage, you have to be praying, it’s left for God to do his wonder.’’ She noted that the discouraging thing is that while some professionals are putting energy into this work of promoting the efficacy of chloroquine, some international community are releasing all manner of negative reports. She added: “My group at a time had to write a letter to the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the need for them to reduce the negative information that is being released about chloroquine, till date we have not got an acknowledgement. I believe all these noise about chloroquine not working is political. “You remember that when the WHO suspended chloroquine trials, the Presidential Task Force (PTF) was also quick to say it was aligning with WHO, but NAFDAC maintained its stance that it will continue with the trial. ‘’I actually sent a note to the DG of NAFDAC congratulating her for not shifting ground, so it is political. My group is in talks with Oyo State Task Force and UCH, Ibadan for Chloroquine trial.” In the last three months, nearly a dozen drugs for the treatment of coronavirus are have been undergoing clinical trials in China, just one remdesivir, an antiviral drug that was in trials against Ebola and the coronavirus MERS are in full trials in the US. Quinine is a bitter compound that comes from the bark of the cinchona tree. The tree is most commonly found in South America, Central America, the islands of the Caribbean, and parts of the western coast of Africa. Quinine was originally developed as a medicine to fight malaria. 