Experts in peace and conflicts as well as human rights advocates have urged the federal government to embrace the emergence of regional security in the country in the spirit of democratization especially in light of the shortcomings of the present security architecture to secure lives and properties of Nigerians. This is part of recommendations reached at the end of an online roundtable discussion held to highlight the likely implications of the emergence of regional security apparatus in Nigeria with specific focus on Amotekun in the South West region of the country. The roundtable was organised by the Centre for Peace and Development (CEPAD) of Veritas University, Abuja in collaboration with Rosa Luxemburg Stiftung. In the communique signed director, CEPAD, Rev. Fr. Dr. Innocent Jooji, the experts observed that with the rise in insecurity especially as it relates to the war against Boko Haram and banditry by unidentified gunmen, farmer and herdsmen clashes, the Federal Government of Nigeria has become incapable of maintaining security in the country. They concluded that there is therefore the need for some sort of complementary security support system, stressing that the emergence of Amotekun can be attributed to the inability of the Federal Government to provide adequate security of lives and property in the country, as well as the imperative for the state Governors to protect and defend their people against criminality. The experts recommended the Government should as a matter of national urgency, take steps to enlighten Nigerians on the Legal Framework of the security structure of Nigeria in view of the emergence of Amotekun which has come to stay. It states further, “we likewise use this medium to call on Government through the necessary agencies to create more awareness on the security policy of the country as well as create a clear outline on the working relationship of security agencies in Nigeria. “We also call on the National Assembly and the Judiciary to put in place a redress mechanism for instances of abuse which may occur by personnel of such regional security outfits. “We reiterate the need for relational policing that would encourage members of any community to know the security personnel that operate within their communities.” Discussants at the roundtable included former Secretary General, Organization of African Trade Union Unity (OATUU), Owei Lakemfa, and Executive Director, Center for Peacebuilding and Socio –Economic Resources Development [CePSERD], Elder Ayokunle Fagbemi. 