The national chairman of Peoples Democratic Party-PDP, Chief Uche Secondus had on Saturday at PDP headquarters in Abuja, received copies of popular award winning Publication, Attention Magazine. With Dr. Godwin Maduka, a Governorship Aspirant adorned on its coverpage, reactions are that PDP may have confirmed his candidacy under her umbrella, ahead of the 2020 Governorship elections in Anambra State. Secondus, Obaseki Receive Copies Of Attention Magazine Adorned By Dr. Godwin Maduka (Photos)
The PDP National Chairman, Chief Uche Secondus, endorsed the publication after flipping through pages of his daughter’s wedding which was also a reported content in the 100paged magazine. He then took amazing shots with Publisher and Editor in Chief of Attention Magazine, Mr. Alex Nwankwo, one of Nigeria’s most notable media personality and PR Strategist. Secondus, Obaseki Receive Copies Of Attention Magazine Adorned By Dr. Godwin Maduka (Photos)
The endorsement of Attention Magazine was a side event of the presentation of results and reports from the Edo state primary elections which was held few days ago, as well as the presentation of certificate to candidacy to Governor Godwin Obaseki, who few days ago decamped from the All Progressive Congress-APC, to join the People Democratic Party-APC, ahead of Edo state 2020 governorship elections. Secondus, Obaseki Receive Copies Of Attention Magazine Adorned By Dr. Godwin Maduka (Photos)
Some notable personalities who witnessed the endorsement of Attention Magazine by Uche Secondus was the Governor of Bauch State, HE Bala Mohammed, notable PDP executives, and other reputable personalities and media representatives. Few minutes after the Press Briefing at the PDP National Secretariat, Governor Godwin Obaseki also took photos with copies of Attention Magazine with Anambra state billionaire and aspirant for the 2021 Governorship elections in Anambra state. The recent edition of Attention Magazine was actually a spotlight on the amazing achievements and prospective intentions of Dr. Godwin Maduka to perform humbly and responsively as the next most qualified Governor of Anambra state, with regards to his pedigree and capacity.