There are indications that the crisis rocking the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) may soon be resolved, as President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday threw his weight behind the Chief Victor Gaidom-led leadership of the party. Consequently, the president will be attending the virtual National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the APC convened by Giadom today from the presidential villa. Giadom, a deputy national secretary of the party, had insisted that he is the acting national chairman of the party after the affirmation of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s suspension. But some members of the National Working Committee (NWC) while rejecting Giadom, adopted deputy national chairman of the party (South-west), Senator Abiola Ajimobi, as the acting chairman of the party. But hinting about the outcome of President Buhari’s intervention, presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, stated the president’s position on the leadership crisis, saying the president would always act in accordance with the law. According to Shehu, President Buhari received very convincing advice on the position of law on the crisis rocking the party. In a statement he issued yesterday, Shehu said, “The president has received very convincing advice on the position of the law as far as the situation in the party is concerned and has determined that the law is on the side of Victor Giadom as acting national chairman. “Because he will always act in accordance with the law, the president will be attending the virtual meeting Giadom called for tomorrow afternoon. “We urge the media to stop promoting manufactured controversies and to not give any further room for mischievous interpretations of the law on this matter”. He also confirmed that NEC meeting would be well attended by governors and leaders of the National Assembly. “In addition to the president, the Giadom meeting will, hopefully, be attended by our governors and the leaders of the National Assembly. A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had recognised Gaidom as the acting chairman of the APC after the Court of Appeal had affirmed the suspension of Oshiomole as the chairman of the party.  Progressive Governors Forum’s DG, Former Reps Queue Behind President Meanwhile, The director-general of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Lukman and former members of the House of Representatives under the platform of APC have filed behind President Buhari, asking him to set up a constitution review committee to address the party crisis. Specifically, Lukman implored leaders and members of APC to queue behind the president in the search for quick resolution to the leadership crisis bedeviling the party. He also called on them to support the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting scheduled for today as a means to return the APC to its 2013 orientation of inclusive and participatory politics. Lukman in a statement issued yesterday insisted that some drastic steps were required to restore order and sanity in party, describing the current crisis as show of ‘indignity’. He said, “With all the confusion as to who is our presiding officer, coupled with the fact that the most important structure that is saddled with the responsibility of convening meetings of all organs of the party is fractured and entangled in webs of legal cases, it is either the confusion is allowed to continue and eventual end with the demise of the party, or our leaders find a way to save the party.” Lukman said given such a situation, one would have expected party leaders to be united in saving the situation. The DG noted that while the party’s constitution has continued to gather dust somewhere in the archive of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), courts and judges have been entertaining themselves with cases requiring all manner of judicial pronouncements. He said, while with the approval of President Buhari a meeting of NEC has been called, it is left to be seen if the so-called leaders acting as blacklegs would undermine the moral authority of the president as the leader of the party. Lukman said, “All committed party members and leaders should rally behind President Buhari in support of the scheduled NEC to hold so that we are able to reset the APC back to its 2013 orientation of inclusive and participatory politics. To achieve that, the public debate should be about proposals to ensure that the NEC succeeds rather than attempting to throw up legal blockades!” Lamenting the current situation in the party, Lukman said, “Today, even something as basic as who is the presiding officer of the APC is in courts to the extent that we lost count of the number of cases involving more litigants, far more than the number of party members that aspired for the position at our last National Convention. “To demonstrate the irony of the kind of leaderless situation we found ourselves or we impose on ourselves, we are being told that our constitution disqualifies a Deputy National Chairman from acting as National Chairman with reference to the section of the country he comes from. Yet, we call ourselves progressives. “No need to look for anybody who is a reactionary with some of progressive leaders we have in APC. Our leaders have degenerated to pseudo-ethnic champions. Are we heading for a merger with Arewa, Afenifere, Biafra and all the known ethnic groups? “It is such a mess that almost every passing day, we just keep descending lower and lower. Not only that members get more and more frustrated, but also that Nigerians become more and more disappointed and some of our leaders with mandate to govern the country are daily being distracted. Instead of facing the business of government and strengthening the capacity of APC governments at federal and states levels to deliver on their campaign promises, it is a case of leadership conflicts all over the place. “Rather than have party leadership making efforts to resolve these conflicts, they become the major disputants and litigants. If the dispute turns out to be between these party leaders and elected functionaries of government, once the circle of election come, these functionaries should be ready to be thrown out no matter their records in government. Professors and all manner of clownish supporters will be recruited to defend and present actions of these party leaders as decisions of party structures and therefore reflective of the supremacy of the party”. On their part, the forum of former House of Representatives members, in a statement jointly signed by Hon Usman Balkore Mohammed, Hon Isa Ibrahim Bio, Hon Chidi Duru and eight others. The statement noted that a new reconciliation and membership committee should be set up to mend fences and expand the frontiers of the party to face future elections. They also urged the president to, as the leader of the party, ensure that the method of registration, documentation and retrieval in the party is upgraded. They said, “The new party leadership shall play the key role of watchdog to ensure that the government lives up to its campaign promises to bequeath enduring legacies and projects, besides holding it to account. Furthermore, it is imperative to reward loyal party members through patronage and appointments immediately, to calm tension, disaffection and dissident behavior. “The party should set up a constitution review committee to remove all ambiguities, strengthen its clauses, roles and functions of all organs of the party without delay, and if need be, specify sanctions for non-observance of those functions and requirements of law by the NWC. “Any national officer of the party must be appointed or elected on merit and competence, and must be someone with a national profile,  non-controversial, well- accomplished in private and public service or must have held the position of at least a Commissioner or its  equivalent in the state EXCO or membership of either the state or national assemblies”.   Ajimobi-led NWC To Boycott NEC Meeting Meanwile, the Senator Ajimobi-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC has turned down the invitation attend to the NEC meeting convened by Giadom. Describing the proposed meeting as illegal and unconstitutional, the Ajimobi faction, in a statement after a lengthy meeting yesterday night, said President Buhari was ill- advised on the convening of NEC. A statement signed by Hilliard Eta who is holding forth for Ajimobi and acting national secretary, Waziri Bulama, noted: „We wish to unequivocally state that members of the National Working Committee (NWC) believe that the President was offered wrong advice or blackmailed into lending his weighty office to the illegality of the National Executive Committee meeting purportedly convened by one Victor Giadom on 25th June, 2020. “We hereby respectfully implore Mr. President to kindly avail himself with facts of the matter regarding the impasse presently experienced by the Party so as to guide him in his assessment of the matter because we are sure that the President if properly advised, would come to the conclusion that the meeting convened by Chief Victor Giadom bothers on illegality and criminality. “The National Working Committee (NWC) regrets to turn down the invitation to the illegal and unconstitutional National Executive Committee (NEC) convened by Chief Victor Giadom. “We believe that attending such a meeting will amount to embracing illegalities and turning a blind eye to the infractions on the Constitution of our great Party“, the statement read.  Eta Cries Out, Says Thugs After Me Meanwhile, Hilliard Eta yesterday alleged threat to his life by people he described as political thugs operating from Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Speaking in Abuja, Eta who said he would file a formal complaint with the Nigeria Police added that some forces were planning to burn the APC national secretariat and lay the blame on the NWC on the grounds that it does not want Giadom to access the premises. In his response, the acting national chairman of the party, Victor Giadom urged Eta to report the matter to the Police, alleging that Eta might be nursing a plan to bring in thugs from Calabar, Cross River State, to achieve a sinister objective. Giadom, who reacted via a phone call, said that while he would not want to join issues with anyone, the ban on interstate movement does not make it possible for thugs to crisscross territories. 