Chief Executive Officer, African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) Nigeria Princess Gloria Akobundu, said mandatory meetings for Nigeria’s Second Cycle Review Process will be held on virtual platform June 16-19, in compliance to inter-state lockdown in the country and the need to conclude the process by December, 2020 despite the impact of COVID-19 lockdown. Akobundu said the Agency had been contacting various stakeholders within and outside the country for the required meetings of the Review Process so that December 2020 scheduled time for completion could be met. She is also the National Coordinator, African Union Development Agency- New Partnership for Africa’s Development (AUDA-NEPAD) in Nigeria. According to the statement signed by the Media assistant to NC/CEO, Abolade Ogundimu, other required meetings and engagements for the country’s Review Process have been held on virtual medium with the continental team and the outcomes were impressive. “The National Secretariat has scheduled virtual meeting with the National Governing Council( NGC) of APRM, with members from the six geo-political zones on Tuesday between 2-3p.m, while the meeting with State coordinators and Focal points of local governments to deliberate on their roles during the process proper comes up on Wednesday. The National Secretariat and NGC Chairman/ Adhoc Committee will be meeting with the Technical Research Institutes (selected Universities and Research Institutions in each zone) on Thursday to intimate them on their roles in the process. Also on Thursday, AUDA-NEPAD Nigeria, will hold virtual meeting with the Continental office on programmes scheduled to hold in the remaining part of 2020. Lastly, the CEO would on June 19 to give update on the three previous meetings to the Country Support Mission (assigned by APRM Continental) on preparation of the country for the process proper that would include town hall meetings and administration of questionnaires by stakeholders. “The Agency is fully prepared for hosting virtual meetings so that its engagement with various public can be insulated from physical lockdown in the country and around the world. “Our Information and Communications Technology (ICT) unit has been further equipped with state of the art gadgets to host seamless meetings with any size of participants. “Holding meeting on virtual meeting has become a ‘New Normal’ since the outbreak of COVID-19 globally and our Agency has been actively participating in several Continental and global virtual meetings. “We have been carrying along key stakeholders, especially within the country and they have been duly notified about the scheduled meetings,” she said. President Muhammadu Buhari had approved Second Cycle Review of the country in 2019 after 11 years of initial Review and it is expected to be completed by December. The Agency had been ensuring implementation of various programmes before the lockdown in order to make it a success. The programmes include: Meeting of the NGC and Broad Sensitisation/training session with various stakeholders on the Second Review Process in February 2020 when Continental delegates applauded the nation’s readiness. The Review Process would focus on four thematic areas of APRM namely; Democracy and Political Governance (DPG), Economic Governance and Management (EGM), Corporate Governance (CG) and Broad-based Sustainable Socio-economic Development (SED). The process would later include town hall meetings and administration of questionnaires that would generate reports with verifiable data from the six geo-political zones of the country, which would form the National Programme of Action (NPoA) of the federal government to deliver good governance. 