The national chairman of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) Chief Dan Nwanyanwu, has raised the alarm over fresh plots to remove chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, (EFCC), Ibrahim Mustapha Magu. Nwanyanwu who spoke with newsmen said the plot is orchestrated by former political office holders who are facing trial for corrupt cases. The Zenith party chairman who refused to mention names of those involved in the plot, alleged that millions of naira have being set aside to influence government functionaries and those very close to the president to facilitate Magu’s removal. “I am talking about the situation as it concerns one of the cardinal programs of President Muhammadu Buhari which is the anti corruption fight. Intelligence has reached us that there is an attempt and in fact that they have gone on to actualise this attempt by putting together hundreds of millions of naira, by those former office holders in the country with those that are facing trial and this huge sums of money they have put together is to be used to influence government functionaries and those very close to the president so that the one who has been driving this anti corruption fight, in the person Ibrahim Mustapha Magu would be removed as quickly as possible. “It would be recalled that there has been a lot of fight and struggles and our position as far as anti corruption fight is not just something we started today. We have been involved in it even before Magu was appointed. Even when the senate didn’t want to confirm him, we made our position very clear. So we have been in it and we are not new in it. Some of us have been tagged as friends of Magu, we are not holding brief for Mr Magu and the EFCC, the point still remains that we are doing this fight because of our country. You cannot steal from our common matrimony and expect us to be quiet. “Most of the people that held position in the past, in various states, liquidated their states. And we the citizens from those states could see where these funds were put in. Some of them are facing trials, some of them would have their trials commence very soon. But they don’t want it to happen and that has led them into putting heads together, putting funds together which they use in lobbying. So we are alerting the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari and the functionaries around him to beware of these unpatriotic criminals that have liquidated their states who are now getting ready to fight. Corruption is now fighting back again. “This is a man, if you listen to the President in his democracy day speech, acknowledged that over N800 Billion has been recovered by Ibrahim Magu in cash, properties worth billions of naira, jewelries and all those things have been recovered. They are available, the funds according to Mr. President have been ploughed back into the revenue of the nation for common good. “So this is a man that they still want to be removed because a lot of them are on the line to be charged to court any moment from now. We are alerting the president and those functionaries of government who are in romance with them to leave Ibrahim Magu alone. We are satisfied with the job he is doing. We do not need a fresh hand to come and learn on the job. Magu has seen it all and is prepared to touch those yet to be touched if given the teeth to bite. “Those of us who are around this anti corruption struggle, if Magu messes around tomorrow, we would be the first to say so. But they have been fighting him because Magu doesn’t do deals with them. Magu doesn’t compromise on this fight, so the best option is to get rid of him, remove him from office. They will fail. President Buhari cannot be deceived by unpatriotic Nigerians who are enemies of Nigeria. “You recall in one of the states,he just returned N5 billion to that state few days ago, part of the fund recovered from that former governor who came later to deny it. There is no time for denial, when you get to the court you deny it. The N5Billion returned to the state is not from the blues. It was from an account that was hidden for a purpose which has been found,” the party chairman said. He said persons like Magu should not be removed in a hurry, urging the president to as a matter of urgency send his name to the Senate for confirmation so that he will have more teeth to deal with these criminals who liquidated the economy.