Sokoto state government said it has uncovered about 1370 ghost workers from the state civil service hence saving no fewer than N1.647,657,430.86 billion from October last year to May, 2020.. Making the disclosure, the state commissioner of finance, Hon. Abdussamad Dasuki said aside the issue of multiple ghost workers, child workers and employment offer selling racket was being undertaken by some before The report as presented by the Committee on Harmonised Sokoto State Staff List as presented to governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal at the Government House was aimed at sanitizing the system and not to witchhunt anybody. Receiving the report, Governor Tambuwal, who applauded the efforts of the committee for saving that much for the state, also directed that the same exercise should be conducted simultaneously on local government staff in Tambuwal, Kware and Sokoto North local government areas of the state. He said the aim of the exercise is to harmonize the payroll system of the state workforce. According to him, on his assumption of office in 2015 while interacting with ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) in the state, he noticed that the state’s data base of civil servants was inaccurate. As a result, Tambuwal noted that his administration has since then introduced various methods to come up with accurate data in that regard. To ward off any misconception, Tambuwal said the exercises embarked upon was purely intended to sanitize the salary system were not directed at witch hunting anybody but to harmonise the civil servants payroll system in the state. This feat, he pointed out, has now placed the state among those leading system in the operation of automated payroll system in the country. In his address the out-going Head of Civil Service of the state, Dr Buhari Bello Kware said the state total staff strength is 29,583 as at 31 March 2020. The number comprise of 12,303 junior staff on grades level 01-06, 17,085 senior officers on grade level 07 and above; and 195 public/ political office holders . He said so many attempts were made in the past by successive administrations to ensure that a common, comprehensive and reliable data base of the state work force was evolved, but none succeeded until governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal assumed office in 2015. Since then, he added, a number of methods have been employed to deliver results based on the governor’s directives that Bank Verification Number (BVN) should be captured in addition to Biometric staff census up to the current payroll sanitization exercise. A statement by governor Tambuwal’s spokeperson, Muhammad Bello quoted the out going Head of Service, Dr Buhari Bello Kware as also commending the state Commissioner of Finance, Hon. Abdussamad Dasuki for his accomplishment of the task and other various reforms that are currently going on in the state financial/ economic sector of the state. Speaking on his part, the commissioner of finance, Alhaji Abdulsamad Dasuki said, in order to ensure transparency and accountability in the discharge of its duties, the ministry has created a website where all the verified pictures of the staff payroll will be posted on monthly basis. Dasuki also urged civil servants in the state to make it their personal responsibility to scrutinize, monitor and blow the whistle whenever anything suspicious is noted on the website.