The Hausa-Fulani community of Tingno, have demanded for compensation for the lives and properties destroyed in the recent violence attack, by the Chobo communal conflict in Adamawa state. Aliyu Tingno, the spokesman of the group at a press conference in Yola Thursday said, they requested for the unconditional and immediate release of those currently under detention by the state police command. Tingno accused the police of lopsided arrest, also demanded government as a matter of urgency, the resettlement be of the destroyed communities and losses incurred by the victims. “The attack on Hausa-fulani community of Tingno resulted in the death of 58 innocent souls, 47 corpses recovered, 60 persons sustained injuries and 52 persons discharged. “We called on security agencies to live up to their expectations of protection of lives and property without bias, particularly on the Tingno crisis.” The leader of the group added that, “there is no way the alleged Hausa-fulani culprits could  have attacked themselves, destroyed their properties by themselves, indeed this is amazing.” The state police command through its Image-maker, DSP Sulaiman Yahaya, assured that, the police is going to substantiate and investigate the allegations and make public it outcome. Yahaya, urged people to be cautious on never to allow personal interest to come into conflict with public interest. “The essence of making complaints is to make people take corrections where actions are not taken. “Whatever complaints made, the police have taken note of it and is going to investigate and made public the outcome. “The police would soon release emergence number to the communities for prompt intervention.” The police said any person involved, would be punished assuring that the CID is still with the figures of casualties and would be sent to the office of the  IGP and the state government. The police assured of adequate security to the area, as the rainy season for planting sets in. The crisis between Chobo and Hausa-fulani Communities occurred last month in Lamurde LGA of Adamawa state, left behind many dead and properties destroyed. The state government had constituted a judicial Commission of inquiry to unravel the immediate and remote course of the crisis in the state 