The Kaduna State Operation Yaki Unit of the Police Command said it has impounded about 144 vehicles, Tricycles and motorcycles for violating the lockdown Orders in the state. This was disclosed by the Operation Commander, SP Bala Kassim in an interview with news men in Kaduna. SP Bala said ” it was quiet unfortunate that people of Kaduna state have refused to abide by the 5: am to 8: pm lockdown order in the state which was started by the state governor, Malam Nasir Elrufai on a broadcast while announcing the ease down lockdown order with exception to schools and markets which he said its measures were still under review. “The lockdown which was ease down still applies in the state as the governor stated clearly that movement should be limited between the hours of 5:am to 8:pm every day.” In other to ensure full enforcement of the orders, the combined team comprising the Police, Air Force, Civil Defence, DSS, KADVIS, Kastlea, and Road Safety were on ground to ensure the enforcement of the order, as the first day of the exercise was spent reminding people on the existing order. He said. Giving the breakdown of the arrested violators, Bala said 100 vehicles, 36 motorcycle and 8 tricycles were impounded and they have been taking to the mobile court. He however said those who were on the essential service list were allowed to go while those were not have been charged to the mobile court situated within the vicinity. “I brought the mobile court to the premises of the operation Yaki in order to make things easy for the magistrate and her team considering the fact that the lockdown order has been eased down, presence of mass movement will make the court uncomfortable, this made me went through the commissioner for justice and appealed for the court to be moved into our premises which I feel has given them room to conduct their exercises peacefully as the environment will be conducive for them.” The operation commander being the team leader of the operation ensuring the enforcement of the lockdown order reiterated they will not hesitate to arrest whoever violates the state lockdown orders. We will do our best within the armpit of the law to ensure full compliance. He said.