Faith Johnson is from Sardauna Local Government area of Taraba State. The Mass Communication final year undergraduate with Taraba State University who doubles as a musician and teacher speaks with ANTHONY ADA ABRAHAM on her passion for music and how failed relationships pushed her into doing music. How has the industry affected your career as an artiste? As an upcoming artiste it’s been a thing of joy to have shared the stage with the likes of Boc Madaki, Classiq, Stylpus, and other artistes doing great in the northern part of the country.  What inspired you into the industry? What inspired me into music is seeing few performances from  the female artistes like Tiwa Savage Yemi Alade, Niniola, Sheyi Shey and lots more making waves around the globe and representing the continent, bagging awards because of their talents. Having the talent of singing, I saw me in them and had the conviction that it could be the beginning of great things for me in few years coming.  What’s your plans for the less privileged? I have not been able to venture into any humanitarian services due to the inadequate funds. But hopefully, when doors start opening, I am willing to contribute to humanity and put smiles on the faces of the less privileged.  Most artistes would say they don’t have challenge when coming up as an artiste, what about you? One of my greatest challenges I encountered coming up as an artiste is finance to be able to produce more songs, make videos, promote those songs. It’s not easy to be heard across the world without having a huge load of cash in your account. I believe in my delivery and I am sure the world would want to hear it. Like they say, talent is not enough, we need investors, promoters. Taraba State is backward in music today because people invest in hotels, cows and bulls rather than talents. And if the entertainment industry in Taraba State is well harnessed, it would pay within a blink of an eye.  Why do you think you can make it in this competitive industry? I stand out because my songs are outstanding and unique. I try to put in hard work and creativity to ensure that its stand out from anything people have heard of before now.  What are you working on now or promoting? My recent project is a single I titled “Talk” and will be dropping on the 10th of this month. It’s a bomb and people and fans alike should be read to catch the fever.  What gives you joy? Noting gives me joy like being on stage and entertaining people. I have had wonderful moment with my friends at school and also with my students when teaching. You should also know that aside being a teacher, doing music gives me extra joy that I can’t imagine.  Have you ever felt discouraged to give up music? I have had times when I felt like giving up. I mean how was my music career supposed to survive when people see artistes as jobless fellows who ain’t focus in life. But I was driven by passion to stand my ground regardless of the circumstances.  What about your love life…? I have had couples of failed relationships, in fact, a failed relationship made me realise my talent. So for now, I just want to focus on my music and see what the future holds for me.  What are the qualities you want in a man? I want a man who is honest, open, tolerant and understands me.  What can you say about the Nigeria music industry and it’s support to upcoming artistes? I must first of all applaud Davido, Mavins Record, Chocolate City, Olamide for their tremendous effort to ensure that Nigerian upcoming artistes are given a chance to explore their talents and also ensuring that they become the star they are created to be. There are more things that the Nigerian music industry can do for upcoming artistes like myself. They should give us a chance to showcase our talents in shows and also easy access to our music. By also allowing the world to watch our performances, it would go a long way in shaping our future in the industry.  If you are given opportunity to feature just an artiste, who would that be? Falz The Bad Guy.  Why Falz The Bad Guy? It’s a single not an album , I dropped an Ep last December. His music stands the taste of time and he’s a natural talent.  Tell us about the single. The song is titled “Talk” and it’s more of having a  conversation in a relationship. So when both parties air their views and feelings, the relationship grows; it more like a life experience (laughs).  Lots of relationships lack communication and understanding and that make it stagnant. We don’t say everything he says is correct, but we understand that communication is very important in a relationship.  Where do you hope to find yourself in the near future? I see myself sharing stage with the likes of Davido, Tiwa Savage, Teni and lots more.  