The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) said credit to the private sector has improved to N26.69 trillion in 2019 as against N18.72 trillion in 2015, while moderate improvement prime lending rate stood at 14.99 points in 2019 compared to 16.96 points in 2015. The director-general of LCCI, Muda Yusuf stated this in a release titled ‘Nigeria Democracy at 21’ sent to LEADERSHIP, yesterday stated that maximum lending rate at 26.84 points in 2015 higher than 30.72 points in 2019, while external reserves at 28.28 points higher to 38.6 points in 2019. As Nigeria celebrates its 21st anniversary, LCCI said cost of credit still remains a challenge for businesses, particularly Micro, Small and Medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). The Chamber reviewed the performance of the economy in 2015 against 2019, which showed that the country’s macroeconomic fundamentals are largely weak, and the situation remains the same till date. LCCI pointed out that the moderate improvement in foreign reserves within the period could be ascribed to favourable oil prices, while improvement in credit to private sector and prime lending rate was driven largely by the aggressive push by monetary authorities for robust credit flows into the real economy. Meanwhile, the increase in maximum lending rate underscores the fact that cost of credit remains a challenge for businesses, particularly Micro, Small and Medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs). Yusuf said that the 21 years of uninterrupted democracy in Nigeria has earned the country enormous goodwill as one of the few stable democracies in Africa. According to Muda, the economy has benefited from this goodwill as investors are generally more comfortable with a democratic environment. “However, core democratic values are yet to take firm root in the Nigerian democracy, especially in quality and independence of democratic institutions; separation of powers and the inherent Checks and balances, accountability by the political leadership, transparency in the management of public finance, rule of law, among others.” He said “We recognise that Nigeria’s democracy is still work in progress, but it is crucial to recognise the importance of these democratic ideals in the sustenance of our democracy. “It is remarkable as well that the military has, over the last 21 years, demonstrated absolute loyalty, respect and submission to the constituted democratic authorities. This has earned Nigeria a great deal of respect in the comity of nations.” He noted further that a strong and virile economy is critical for a sustainable democracy, saying that a strong economy driven by the private sector is fundamental to the building of strong democratic structures and processes. He said “This is therefore the time to reflect on the critical gaps in our democratic structures and processes as well as our economic architecture. The political leadership at all levels should rededicate themselves to the creation of enabling environment for private sector development.” The DG added that the state of physical infrastructure remains a challenge to socioeconomic development of the nation, noting that the federal government’s resolve in improving the quality of infrastructures by constantly seeking liquidity to fund capital projects is noted. “Our infrastructural challenge stems from the fact that we are spending far below the recommended $100 billion yearly required to finance our infrastructure deficit under the infrastructure masterplan,” Yusuf said. 