The federal government has released the sum of N4.6 billion for the payment of the hazard allowance of 55, 031 health workers in 35 COVID-19 designated hospitals and medical centres. This is a quick response by the federal government to the suspension of the strike embarked upon by Resident Doctors a week ago. The government also assured the doctors and all other health workers in the country that it will protect their rights while disclosing that it places  high value on human life and anything that concerns human life is of paramount importance to the current administration. Speaking during a joint press conference yesterday in Abuja, the ministers of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Health, Osagie Ehanire and Labour and Employment, Mr Chris Ngige, said it will always protect the rights of the health workers. Mohammed said the federal government has chosen negotiation over confrontation to halt the nationwide strike action by the Resident doctors because life matters adding that all their demands have been met including their disagreement with some state governments. Mohammed, however, said in summary, a total of 55,031 health workers in 35 COVID-19 designated hospitals and medical centres have been paid Special Hazard Allowance totaling N4,642,485,146.00. He also stressed that more payments are being processed for medical personnel, adding that other matters relating to non-payment of arrears dating as far back as 2014 or salaries owed by state governments are either in court or beyond the power of the Federal Ministry of Health to resolve. Reacting to the peace truce brokered between the NationalAssociation of Residents Doctors (NARD) and the federal government leading to the former calling off the strike, he described the strike as a dangerous setback for the nation’s efforts at tackling the pandemic. The minister said, “After the 14-day ultimatum was issued, negotiations were immediately opened with the Association, and were facilitated by the Health Committees of the National Assembly, the Speaker of the House of Representatives and, of course, the minister of Labour and Employment.’’ Mohammed stressed that the federal government was aware of the challenges confronting health workers in carrying out their duties, especially the provision of the PPE. He said, “We are also aware of the challenges confronting health workers in carrying out their duties, especially the provision of the PPE. But I make bold to say that the federal government has done everything possible to procure PPE and make such available to our health workers. “Of course, the fact that this is a global pandemic has affected the availability of PPEs and other requirements for fighting the pandemic. Not even the developed countries have been able to procure all that they require, such as PPEs and ventilators.’’ He said the nation has prioritised this and has also succeeded in procuring as many PPEs as possible for distribution to health workers. “But Nigeria has prioritised this and has also succeeded in procuring as many PPEs as possible for distribution to our health workers, and we now have a stockpile for an emergency,’’ he said. Mohammed pointed out that apart from the provision of PPEs and other equipment, the federal government has done the following: expansion of the testing laboratories from two to 38, training of over 13,000 health workers in Infection, Prevention and Control (IPC), development of policy and protocols for testing returning Nigerians, development of policies and protocols for integration of primary healthcare into national response, development of stronger and sustainable policy for community engagement and risk communication, increase in the isolation centre bed spaces from 3,000 to more than 5,000 nationwide. He noted: “We have reeled out the details of the efforts made by the federal government to strengthen the nation’s capacity to respond robustly to the pandemic as well as to protect our healthcare workers. “We have also informed you that the government has effected the payment of Hazard Allowance and Group Life Insurance for the health workers. This is a responsible government and it has acted responsibly to avert this needless strike’’. The federal government also said that human life remain paramount and urged the health workers to rally round the government at this period of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the right of all doctors and health workers will be protected adding that they should balance their own needs with that of the public, adding that all hands must be on deck. “This is not a time for acrimony. This is bad time for strike, and I am urging my colleagues to return fully to their work”  Why We Suspended Strike – NARD Meanwhile, the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) has said that the decision to suspend its strike action after one week was taken in order to give the federal and state governments time to fulfill the outstanding demands. The association in a communiqué it issued at the end of its virtual extra-ordinary national executive council meeting at the weekend, NARD said that the decision followed an appeal by the Speaker, House of Representatives, secretary to the government of the federation, chairman, Nigeria Governors Forum and other stakeholders. According to the communiqué, the Association acknowledged ”the provision of Personal Protective Equipment to some hospitals. However these PPEs are consumables and non-reusable, therefore the need for sustained supply. ”That the Medical residency training funding has been included in the revised 2020 budget through the intervention of the speaker, House of Representative and will be implemented as soon as the budget is assented to by the President. At the same time, we await the fulfillment of the promise made by the Nigeria Governors Forum to ensure same is done in all the states. ”On the salary shortfall for 2014-2016, the secretary to the Government of the Federation has promised to intervene. Government has shown commitment to procure group life insurance for health workers. ”That the disengaged resident doctors at Jos University Teaching Hospital have been reinstated, the chief medical director has been directed to pay their withheld salaries and comply with the provisions of the Medical Residency training Art”