At least 10 persons have been reportedly killed following a communal clash in Benue state. This is just as the Troops of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS), yesterday, reportedly arrested one local militia leader popularly known as Alhaji Audu from Olegeje community in Agatu local government area of Benue state and recovered one Ak47 rifle and 60 round of ammunitions from him during a communal clash in the area. The State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Catherine Anene confirmed the attack in Agatu where she said the Command was yet to establish whether it was herdsmen attack or communal clash. Our Correspondent gathered that some militia groups yesterday attacked three communities of Adana, Olegeje and Olegogboche all in Agatu, which led to the death of two persons while others were injured. Although, another source who spoke under the condition of anonymity attributed the attack to Fulani herdsmen, where 10 people were allegedly killed with others missing, another local, Job Emakwo insisted that it is a communal clash involving the three communities as a result of the activities of some militia in the affected areas. Immediately troops of the OPWS stationed in Agatu heard about the clash, they quickly rushed to the affected communities and in the process stormed into a militia camp and apprehended Alhaji Audu who was later identified as one of the leaders of the local militia who instigated the fight between the three communities’ He said the troops recovered one Ak47 riffle and 60 rounds of live ammunitions from the leader of the Militia. When contacted, the Force Commander of OPWS, Maj. Gen. Adeyemi Yekini said he cannot comment on the Agatu attack and said that journalists can contact the Defense Head Quarters (DHQ) Information Department. The PPRO further disclosed that she is yet to ascertain  the number of casualties at the time of filling the report due to network problem in the area, adding that the command have already deployed security personnel to the affected areas to maintain peace, law and order.