Members of Public Transport Owners of Nigeria Association, PTONA have lamented the huge loss of N200 billion Naira in the 12-week ban on inter- state transportation by the government. The Association also decried additional loss of about 400 human lives and another 35 per cent recorded cases of permanently dead businesses due to the ban. President of PTONA, Engr Isaac Uhunmwagho who gave the figures yesterday in a press conference held in Lagos, pleaded that the ban on inter- state transportation be lifted as soon as possible. According to Engr Uhunmwagho, the issue of ban on Inter-state transportation is something that affects every one, prevailing on the government to come to the salvation of the transportation industry in this country. The President notified that PTONA had already written their plea for financial assistance and palliatives to the Economic Sustainability Committee headed by Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo. He therefore appealed that the government should face the challenge of ensuring that Nigerians comply with the guidelines and protocols which will be introduced for long-distance travels, as well as encourage Nigerians to abide by all other Covid-19 rules and regulations. Explaining the negative effects of the lockdown,  Uhunmwagho pointed out, that “the longer the ban on inter-state travelling lasts, the much more will be the number of small and big business that will die permanently, adding that” the earlier the ban is lifted, some businesses will be able to recover” Raising the alarm, that some Transport Owners will go bankrupt, the transporter equally advised that government needs to financially aid the Transport sector such that the Transport Owners do not have to transfer the entire burden on to the poor hapless Nigerians who are already very weak financially because of all the effects of Covid-19. Explaining further, he said inability to continue paying salaries to staff has been the plight of many transporters, as the funds are no longer there. He added that thousands of vehicles have been parked redundant for almost three months, pointing out that the cost of restoration of these vehicles to sound condition will be millions of naira. “The reliability of many of these vehicles will not be the same anymore. Vehicles were never designed to be left idle, and even if they may re-start, numerous mechanical, electrical and system faults are bound to arise, including tyres, and the transport owners have very little funds left to meet up with these challenges. Some transport owners who have rented premises may be unable to continue using some of such premises”. “In the post Covid-19 operating conditions, vehicles are expected to carry approximately 50 per cent of passengers as well as spend money on additional sanitation and health facilities. If a vehicle takes 50 per cent of passengers, simple arithmetic will dictate that the transport fare will have to double. ‘’The airlines have already come up with a similar answer. The question is, can the Nigerians, whose average level of income has been adversely hit by the effects of Covid-19 be able to pay significantly increased transport fares?”, the President explained. Uhunmwagho however, assured that PITONA is working closely with the Federal Ministry of Transportation, Federal Ministry of Works, Federal Road Safety, Nigerian Police as well as State Governments. PTONA members are the owners of the majority of Public Transport Vehicles in Nigeria. It’s members constitute majorly all the biggest names in Public Transportation. Apart from government, PTONA is the biggest stakeholders, apart from the Government in the transportation of Nigerians around the country.  