The presidency yesterday fired back at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the party’s attack on President Muhammadu Buhari following the reported face off among officials and family members of the president in Aso Rock. The PDP had in a statement issued on Saturday alleged shooting and security breaches within the precincts of the presidential villa after a reported degenerated squabble among family members of the president and officials at the presidential villa. The opposition had claimed that the gross failure of the president to provide leadership both as family head and leader led to the growing apprehensions as well as lack of coordination in governance. But hitting back at the PDP, the presidency accused the opposition party and other critics of the president of always looking for “minor occurrence” within the seat of power to justify their attacks on President Buhari. It said already, the president has acted in compliance with the rule of law and has directed that the law should be allowed to take its course. Presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, in a statement assured that the president and commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces was not “at any time in any form of danger arising, either from deadly infections or the reported incident by security personnel which is currently under investigation. “That a minor occurrence is being used by some critics to justify attacks on the government and the person of President Muhammadu Buhari beggars belief. In this particular instance, the President says the law should be allowed to take its course”, Shehu added. Noting that the presidency has “acknowledged concerns expressed by several members of the public regarding the recent incident among the occupants of the State House, which led to the arrest of some staff by the police, Shehu said “this particular incident happened outside the main residence of the President”. Insisting that it was not as serious as portrayed by the opposition, Shehu said, “Armed guards and other security personnel assigned to the State House receive the necessary training of especially weapons handling and where they come short, their relevant agencies have their rules and regulations to immediately address them. “Having authorized the proper investigation to be carried out into this unfortunate incident by the Police, the President has acted in compliance with the rule of law”. The Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu had reportedly arrested some aides of the First Lady over a shooting incident at the State House. In her response, Aisha Buhari had in a tweet called on the IGP to release her staff to avoid exposing them to Covid -19. 