Activity in the short-term debt market has witnessed significant year-on-year growth over the last five years, as large corporates like Dangote Cement Plc continue to access the commercial paper (CP) market for funding. Recently, the FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited approved the quotation of the Dangote Cement Plc N34 billion Series 15 and N66.00 billion Series 16 Commercial Paper (CP) notes under its N150 billion Domestic CP Issuance Programme on the Exchange’s platform. This comes on the back of note-worthy debt issuances on the Exchange, including the recently quoted Flour Mills of Nigeria N30 billion CP notes, Sterling Bank N15 billion CP notes and the United Capital N5.32 billion CP notes, amongst others. Despite the economic headwinds associated with the transition of businesses into the new normal in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Dangote Cement CP issuance and subsequent quotations on FMDQ Exchange, remarkably, the largest CP issuance by a non-financial institution in Nigeria and is another testament of the efficient listings and quotations service offered by FMDQ Exchange as well as the Exchange’s continued efforts to position the Nigerian capital market to support corporates and businesses seeking to raise capital to finance their funding needs. Debt market is investments in debt securities typically involve less risk than equity investments and offer a lower potential return on investment. Debt investments by nature fluctuate less in price than stocks. Even if a company is liquidated, bondholders are the first to be paid. Bonds are the most common form of debt investment, Commercial Papers, among others. In June 2018, Dangote Cement had applied to raise a N150 billion fresh capital through the issuance of commercial paper. The funds from the commercial paper were to be deployed towards capital expenditure, working capital and general corporate purpose. Also, the management of the Company recently presented its audited full year financial results ended December 31, 2019 to the investing public, with an impressive dividend payout. The company rewarded its shareholders with an impressive return on their investment as the directors recommended an increased dividend of N16 per share for approval at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for today. The Group’s investment across Africa is bearing the desired results as Pan-African sales volume grew in the year 2019, hitting 9.6Mt from 9.4Mt. According to the full year report released on the floor of the NSE, Dangote Cement Plant, Mtwara, Tanzania, recorded an increase of 94 percent increase in volume within the review period. Dangote Cement Plant, Pout, Senegal put up a remarkable performance with sales up more than 100 percent of rated capacity. Meanwhile, the Company started its financial year 2020 with a strong performance in its first quarter (Q1), showing improvement and maintaining its leadership position in the industry. The Africa’s leading cement manufacturer, posted a strong performance in the first quarter ended March 31, 2020, with Profit Before Tax (PBT) up by 11 per cent, increasing from N78.96 billion to N88.06 billion. According to the cement company’s unaudited first quarter report on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), gross profit rose by three percent, from N140.68 billion to N144.86 billion. Group net profit stood at N60.60 billion. Revenue was equally on the increase, growing from N240.16 billion to N249.18 billion, indicating an increase of 3.8 per cent. Dangote Cement sold a total volume of 4.0Mt in Nigeria while Pan African sales accounted for 2.28MT. Chief executive officer, Dangote Cement, Michel Puchercos, commended the resiliency of the management and staff of the company in delivering good results despite the lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. He said “From the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have proactively deployed all recommended measures to protect the health and well-being of our employees, customers, suppliers and communities. As such, we have implemented several rigorous protocols in all our operations across the continent. We are closely monitoring all markets according to the guidance provided by the authorities in each country. “We continue to provide superior services and deliver high quality products to our customers. 2020 started strongly, with growth across the board despite the early effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. We achieved a record high quarterly EBITDA margin in Pan-Africa and a record high quarter in Nigeria, with revenues of N179 billion and domestic volumes at 4.0Mt.” “In April, Dangote Cement successfully raised N100 billion series 1 bond from the Nigerian Debt Capital Market despite the current challenging environment. This illustrates investors’ continuous confidence in Dangote Cement’s strategy. This landmark transaction is the largest ever bond issuance by a corporate issuer in Nigeria. It allows us to further broaden our sources of funding by accessing long-term debt at competitive costs from the capital market” he added. Meanwhile, despite current market headwinds due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, the Dangote Cement N100 billion Bond transaction was extremely well received and attracted significant demand from a wide range of high-quality investors including domestic pension funds, asset managers, insurance companies, banks and international fund managers. The total order book amounted to N155 billion. The transaction represents the largest corporate bond issuance in Nigeria’s debt capital markets, reflecting Dangote Cement’s strong credit quality as well as the resilience of the Nigerian debt capital market despite current global challenges. The transaction enables the Company to lower its average cost of debt and extend the average maturity of its debt. Dangote Cement intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to refinance existing short-term debt previously applied towards cement expansion projects, working capital and general corporate purposes. Speaking on the bond issuance, Puchercos said, “This landmark transaction is the largest ever bond issuance by a corporate issuer in Nigeria. It allows us to further broaden our sources of funding by accessing long-term debt at competitive costs from the capital market and builds further on the success of our domestic commercial paper programme. “The success of this transaction, in the current challenging environment, illustrates investors’ continuous confidence in Dangote Cement’s strategy, strong cash generation and solid credit profile.” Dangote Cement Plc is Sub-Saharan Africa’s largest cement producer with an installed capacity of 45.6Mta capacity across 10 African countries and operates a fully integrated “quarry-to-customer” business with activities covering manufacturing, sales and distribution of cement. Dangote Cement has a long-term credit rating pf AA+ by GCR and Aa2.ng by Moody’s due to its market leading position, significant operational scale and strong financial profile evidenced by the Company’s robust operating and net profit margins relative to regional and global peers, adequate working capital, satisfactory cashflow and low leverage.