Sterling Bank Plc, Nigeria’s leading commercial bank, has donated 5,000 customised reflective uniforms to Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) in a bid to make highways managers in Lagos State safe as they work at dawn and dusk to keep the environment safe. Regional business executive, Institutional Banking (Lagos region), Mrs Mojibola Oladunni, made the donation to the acting managing director and chief executive officer of LAWMA, Mr Ibrahim Odumboni, in Lagos on behalf of the bank recently. Speaking at the presentation, Mrs Oladunni said the bank will continually engage in initiatives that will protect the environment especially those that are connected to the protection of lives through its partnership with LAWMA. She said the donation of the reflective highway managers’ uniforms to LAWMA “is one of the ways the bank contributes to the wellbeing of skilled and unskilled workers in the communities in which it does business across the country.” Responding, Mr Odunmboni said, “Sterling Bank has been supporting us over the years. We are especially grateful for this donation.” He said the uniforms came at a time the authority had just expanded the number of sweepers across the state, noting that the donation will be adequate for distribution to all the sweepers on its payroll. He appealed to the management of the bank to continue its good gesture to LAWMA and other agencies of the Lagos State government. Sterling Bank has donated more than 60,000 uniforms to agencies that keep the environment clean in different parts of the country in the last six years. It also embarked on national cleaning exercises in more than 20 states of the federation. Some of the states are Lagos, Kaduna, Abia, Delta, Ekiti, Adamawa, Bauchi, Katsina, Kwara, Plateau and Ondo. Others are Kano, Kogi, Oyo and Benue states. In the last 10 years, the bank has committed more than N1 billion to initiatives that protect the environment such as recycling, environmental sustainability advocacy, beach clean-up, street cleaning and e-waste management. planting of trees to discourage deforestation, remove carbon dioxide and enhance the environment, especially in the light of the impending reality of climate change and its impact on the environment. 