Worried by the lingering crisis in the governing party, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met behind closed doors with governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to map out plans to tackle the situation. The meeting which held at the presidential villa is coming barely 24 hours after the president met with the Senate president, Ahmed Lawan, on the rancour in the party. The buildup to the APC governorship primary election in Edo State had ignited a leadership crisis culminating in a battle for the national leadership of the party after the affirmation of the suspension of the party’s national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, by the Court of Appeal. The crisis also led to the defection of Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Speaking to State House correspondents after the meeting with the president yesterday, chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum and Kebbi State governor, Atiku Bagudu, said they presented the position of the APC governors to the president on ways to resolve the crisis. Bagudu who was accompanied to the meeting by his counterparts from Jigawa and Plateau States, Abubakar Badaru and Simon Lalong, hinted that a national executive committee (NEC) would be convened to resolve the crisis in the party. He said, “The reason for our visit is to discuss with him (president) as our party leader, and as the leader that millions of Nigerians trust to discuss party issues and the position of the progressive governors to support all steps to unify and bring about peaceful resolution in our party, the APC. “Mr President listened attentively and discussed with us as a father and as a party leader, and he gave us all the assurance we needed to know that resolution of contentious issues will soon be arrived at”. Bagudu also gave insight into why the president does not constantly intervene in party affairs, noting that political parties are not perfect assemblies devoid of issues. He stated: “At all times, Mr President has shown that he is a democrat, he is not running the party. Yes, he is the party leader, he allows party organs to do and decide what should be done. “He is very hesitant to use his standing even as party leader, talk less of his authority as resident of the country to direct things, but at all times, he has been alive to the issues”. On the removal and replacement of the party’s deputy national secretary, Victor Giadom and the protest at the party’s headquarters yesterday, the Kebbi governor said people should be allowed to express dissenting views. Noting that APC is a party that believes in dialogue, he added that “contentious issues arise when you are dialoguing and we will recall that because of the sanctity which President Buhari attaches to constitutionalism.” APC Strong, Not Divided – Kogi Gov In a related development, Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, declared yesterday that APC was still strong and not divided despite the leadership crisis rocking the party. He spoke to State House correspondents after a meeting of the North Central governors with the chief of staff to the president, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, at the presidential villa. He assured that President Buhari was already looking into the crisis to ensure that the party comes out stronger. Bello declared that the party will continue its winning streak in Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Ekiti and Osun elections. He said, “Our party is one solid party but in a particular big family like that you won’t rule out one misunderstanding or another. But I can assure you that our party is strong under the leadership of President Buhari and as a father he is already looking into it and I can assure you we are going to come out very strong. “We are going to Edo State and we shall win Edo State elections overwhelmingly for APC, we are going to Ondo States and win it overwhelmingly for APC. We will take Anambra State and record it as a second APC state from the South-east and integrate our Igbo brothers into the fold. We are going to take Ekiti once again and Osun”. Protest Rocks Party’s National Secretariat Meanwhile, as the APC governors were conferring with President Buhari in Aso Rock on the way forward, the intensity of the party’s leadership crisis manifested yesterday as hundreds of protesters stormed the APC national secretariat, demanding the sack of the entire members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC). The protesters, under the aegis of Concerned APC Members, led by Okpokwu Ogenyi decried the party’s dwindling fortunes since the present NWC came on board. Lamenting the bastardisation of the party’s aims and objectives as well as destruction of President Buhari’s legacy, they said, His (Buhari’s) hard earned reputation is being dragged by the incessant activities of the National Working Committee of our Party”. Reading the text of their address, the leader of the protesters said, “This present National Working Committee has caused us to lose seven states to the opposition. APC had 24 governors before the present National Working Committee. “Today, we have 18 governors. Just yesterday, the deputy governor of Ondo State left us and joined the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP). Are we making progress or going backward?” Giadom Writes INEC As Ize-Iyamu Emerges APC Governorship Candidate In a free, fair and peaceful process, former secretary to the Edo State government, Pastor Osaguie Ize-Iyamu, yesterday emerged governorship candidate of the APC after the party’s direct primary election. This is just as the erstwhile national deputy secretary of APC, Chief Victor Giadom, has written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), asking it not to recognise any governorship primary in Edo State. He insists that he remains the acting national chairman of the party despite his suspension by some party members in his state. Nevertheless, Giadom’s letter comes as the Abiola Ajimobi-led NWC yesterday swore in Mr Worgu Boms as the new deputy national secretary. Boms was nominated from Rivers State to replace Giadom who still lays claim to the position of acting national chairman. The Edo governorship primaries held at the 192 wards were conducted in a peaceful atmosphere as APC faithful defied the early morning downpour to vote for aspirants of their choice. Chairman of the APC primary election committee, Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State, declared Ize-Iyamu winner of the election after collating the results turned in by the returning officers in the 18 local government areas of the state. The results as announced showed that Ize-Iyamu scored 27, 838 votes while his closest rival, Dr Pius Odubu got 3, 776 votes, followed by Mr Osaro Obazee who polled 2,751 votes. Ize-Iyamu as APC candidate will face the winner of the PDP primaries billed for Thursday ahead of the September 19 governorship election in the state. Uzodinma thanked security agencies and the state Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Johnson Alalibo, for the strict supervision of the exercise. Meanwhile, administering the oath of office on Boms in Abuja yesterday, the national vice chairman (South-south) of the APC, Ntufam Hilliard Eta, who is holding forte for Ajimobi, said the new deputy party scribe would execute all functions as provided by the party’s constitution. But Giadom, in his letter to INEC, stated that he had not authorised and constituted any committee for Edo State governorship primaries. In the letter written on June 18 and copied to security enforcement agencies, Giadom said, “Reports reaching me is that some persons have perfected to conduct direct gubernatorial primaries for our great party in Edo State next week under the purported chairmanship of his Excellency, Governor Hope Uzodinma on Monday June, 22 2020.” Giadom, at a press conference in Abuja, insisted that only the National Executive Committee (NEC) can resolve the current crisis bedeviling the party. Giadom also dismissed his alleged replacement with Boms as deputy national secretary as laughable and an act of rascality. Giadom who spoke to journalists at the national secretariat of the APC in Abuja stated that he was hopeful that the mistakes of the suspended national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole could be corrected. On whether he is not afraid that APC could lose Edo, he said, “We are very hopeful that the mistakes that have been made by the ‘former’ Chairman would be corrected and we will be on time to ensure that we do not run into such situation.” Rivers APC Suspends Aguma, Appoints News Caretaker C’ttee Chair In a twist of events, statutory members of the state executive committee (SEC) of the Rivers State chapter of the APC yesterday announced the suspension of the caretaker committee chairman of the party, Hon Igo Aguma. A Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt had a fortnight ago declared the caretaker committee of the APC in the state as illegal and declared Aguma, a former member of the House of Representatives, as the caretaker committee chairman of the party. Aguma’s suspension came barely 24 hours after the party suspended Giadom and announced his replacement at the party’s NWC with the state’s former attorney-general and commissioner for Justice, Hon Wogu Boms. Announcing Aguma’s suspension at a press conference in Port Harcourt yesterday, immediate-past Senator representing Rivers East district in the National Assembly, Senator Andrew Uchendu, accused the suspended Caretaker Committee chairman of constituting himself into a sole administrator of the party in disobedience to the judgement of the State High Court. Uchendu said, “Upon obtaining judgment at the High Court of Rivers State in Suit Number PHC/4355/2019, Hon. Igochukwu Aguma in violent disobedience, disregard and disrespect to the said judgment constituted himself into a sole administrator, relegating, abandoning and disregarding majority of the Statutory Members of the State Executive Committee and taking critical decisions that affect the party all by himself. “We emphasize that the emergence of Hon. Dr. Sokonte Davies as Caretaker Chairman from this meeting is takes full cognisance of the duty before us and, particularly, the ranking elders of the party in the State such as Senator Uchendu; His Excellency, Chief Rufus Ada George, former Governor of Rivers State who is in the United States at the moment and unable to return due to the COVID-19 pandemic; His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, former Governor of Rivers State and a serving Minister of Transportation of the Federal Republic of Nigeria; and Dr. Sam Sam Jaja, Member of the APC Board of Trustees from Rivers State under Article 32 of the APC Constitution.” Reacting, Aguma declared that his suspension by statutory members of the state executive committee (SEC) was of no effect. Aguma, in a statement signed by his media aide, Livingstone Wechie, said the action of the SEC members was not unexpected. The statement reads in part: “The attention of the Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers state has been drawn to a press statement purportedly suspending Rt. Hon. Igo Aguma as Chairman of APC in Rivers state. “It is known fact that prior to this time, the APC in Rivers state had been polarised into various factions and this is not new to the public and Party members. The factionisation of the APC in the state resulted in the opening up of two factional offices in the state along Aba road in Port Harcourt respectively”. Court Decides Mode of APC Primary July 6 Meanwhile, the Federal High Court in Benin yesterday adjourned to July 6 ruling on whether to reside on the case on the direct mode of primary adopted by the NWC of the APC for choosing its governorship candidate. The presiding judge, Mohammed Umar, adjourned the suit filed by the factional state deputy chairman of the party, Pastor Kenneth Asekomhe, and one of the governorship aspirants of the party, Matthew Iduoriyekemwen. They are challenging the decision of the party’s NWC to adopt direct primary election for the nomination of its governorship candidate. The defendants in the suit are APC, Adams Oshiomhole, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Inspector General of Police. The plaintiffs had earlier filed an ex parte motion restraining the party from adopting the direct mode of primary. PDP Aspirant, Ikhine, Steps Down For Obaseki Meanwhile, ahead of Thursday’s primary election, a PDP aspirant, Engr Gideon Ikhine has stepped down, declaring support for the Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki. Ikhine who declared his support for the governor at his campaign office in Benin City noted that his decision was to allow the governor consolidate on his developmental strides in the state. He said, “Governor Godwin Obaseki is a prayer-answered for the PDP.  We might have a common vision but the means of achieving them may be at variance but God has brought them to reality.” Urging his supporters to support the re-election of the incumbent governor, Ikhine said, “We want to ask for your support and to ensure that everyone that has worked with us across the state redoubles their efforts in ensuring that the margin of victory between the PDP and the opposition is wider.” On his part, Governor Obaseki reassured that his administration will continue to prioritise the welfare and wellbeing of all Edo people, adding that “PDP is Edo and Edo is PDP; together, we shall bring Edo to where God has destined it to be”. The governor continued: “Governance has to be about the people, not about a few individuals. It has to be about translating the norm and the new value where we say white is white and black is black. We have to rebuild our great party; if PDP were not in the State, l may not have switched to PDP. “Today is the beginning of a new dawn in our party. What we are doing is a merger. What one person was doing before, two persons will now be doing the same thing. The victory will be for us all.  “Therefore, everyone must have a space in the party. We want to build a party that is fair and democratic, where every group in Edo State will see that there is something in the party. I want to build a party that is based on fairness, equity and justice.”