The Head of Service of the Federation (HOSF), Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan has emphasized on the need to make the Public Service more efficient and effective by leveraging on digitalization and automation for transparency and accountability in service delivery. A press statement signed by the Director, Communication office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs. Olawunmi Ogunmosunle reveals that the head of Service affirmed this in her remarks on the occasion of the year 2020 Africa Public Service day celebration held under virtual environment. Dr. Yemi-Esan noted that the level of Public enlightenment and interest in government processes and activities underscore the need for Public Servants as service providers to be accountable and transparent. This, she said was necessary to maintain public confidence and trust in the system. The HOSF went further to mention some key reforms embarked upon by the OHCSF in line with the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Agenda for transparency and accountability. The reforms include plans to digitalize establishment, recruitment, learning and development processes. The process is driven through robust partnerships particularly with the private sector. Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) have been directed to digitize files and other records. The initiative is one of the strategies for the establishment of Enterprise Content Management System which incorporates digitization and automation of documents. She said the initiative is expected to reduce the delay in treating files and documents, preventing loss of files and improving access control. When fully on stream, the system will support efforts of Government to promote transparency and accountability. The HOSF also spoke on other milestone reform initiatives championed by the OHCSF to transform the Public Service for improved quality service delivery. The reforms include the continued effort at bringing every Public Servant nationwide on the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS) platform. According to her, the IPPIS initiative has been able to determine the actual number of serving Public Servants in Nigeria. It has helped in the attainment of projected savings to the tune of 60 to 120 Billion Naira from cleaning Human Resource (HR) data on IPPIS. It has also improved productivity and governance for HR administration across all HR processes such as payroll transfers, promotions, recruitment and training. She further stated that: “Quality and speed of service delivery has also been enhanced by reducing administrative cost, increasing transparency, making services more accessible and increasing the ability to make data driven decisions. Above all economic growth has been enhanced through the channeling of the saved funds to other aspects of Service delivery by the government, she stated”. The number one CIvil servant revealed that Six (6) MDA are already live on the IPPIS platform, Ten (10) would be live by June, 2020 while the final Nineteen (19) MDAs are expected to go live by August, 2020. While informing Nigerians that the new Performance Management System is based on the principles of accountability, transparency, equity and ownership, She said that every individual, Unit, Department and Institution in the Public Service shall be held accountable on a continuous basis to ensure that national development goals are met. In the area of capacity building the HOSF said reviewed modules on induction, Structured Mandatory Assessment Training Program (SMAT-P) as well as the Leadership Enhancement and Development Programme (LEAD-P) have been launched.  Meanwhile 1,287 officers have been trained under SMAT-P; while the Office is looking at a target of 100% participation Dr. Yemi-Esan added that change management will play a very crucial role to ensure a smooth transition to a transformed Public Service. She envisioned that change in behavior from a bureaucratic to an entrepreneurial result-oriented and innovative Civil Service is one of the goals to be embraced and sustained. The National theme for this year’s celebration is “Entrenching Good Governance:  Developing Transparent and Accountable Public Institutions” The week-long activities usually dedicated to the celebration could not take place this year in order to observe physical distancing rules and curtail the spread of  the COVID -19 pandemic.