In this report, MUYIWA OYINLOLA enumerates some of the attainments and setbacks of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration since assumption of office on May 29, 2015. That President Muhammadu Buhari is five years in office is no news. It is equally no news that he is the first president in the history of the country to unseat an incumbent. What is news to many people in the country, particularly political pundits, is that five years on, the former military head of state and his government are still popular with the Nigerian populace, majorly those at the grassroots across the 774 local government areas of the country. Despite the enormous challenges ranging from insecurity to economy, corruption to infrastructural dilapidation, the dividends of democracy have continued to flow unabated based on the ingenuity of Buhari’s leadership qualities. No doubt about the fact that immediately when he was inaugurated as president after the 2015 presidential election, the Nigerians were optimistic that his government would reignite a fading economy. Five years later, the Buhari-led administration has lived up to the expectation. Prior to this time, aside issues of insecurity, the economic fortune of the nation had gone bad with signs pointing towards a possible collapse of the whole economy, except something drastic was to be done to salvage the situation. Until his assumption of office, there was no deliberate plan to diversify the economy and save the country from over-dependence on crude oil, as the major foreign exchange earner of the most populous black nation in Africa. Above all, a prolonged culture of corruption and impunity was the order of the day in the country. On assumption of office on May 29, 2015, the Buhari-led administration hurriedly went to the drawing board to urgently tackle several challenges that have hindered economic prosperity, sustainable security and overall national development in Nigeria. The first point of call was how to redirect the economy for the overall betterment of the downtrodden. Consequently, the administration launched a programme called the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP). The programme that was launched on November 17, 2015 by the president has made available more than N200billion in funding to more than 1.5 million smallholder farmers of 16 different commodities, Rice, Wheat, Maize, Cotton, Cassava, Poultry, Soy Beans, Groundnut and Fish, cultivating over 1.4 million hectares of farmland in the agriculture sector of the economy. The programme has substantially raised local production of rice, doubling the production of paddy as well as milled rice between 2015 and 2019. Between 2016 and 2019, more than 10 new rice mills came on-stream in the country and many of the existing mills have expanded their capacity, while several new ones are under construction. As of today, there is over a billion-dollar private sector investments in the production of Rice, Wheat, Sugar, Poultry, Animal Feed and Fertilizers, among others, since 2015. In the same vein, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) gave approval this year for a National Agriculture Mechanization Programme, “the Green Imperative”, in partnership with the Government of Brazil and multilateral financing institutions. This is apart from the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative launched in January 2017, as a Government-to-Government agreement with the Kingdom of Morocco. Accordingly, more than a million metric tonnes of fertilizer have been produced since 2017. This translated to distribution of more than 18 million 50kg bags of NPK fertilizer in the first three years of the PFI. Equally, 22 blending plants have been resuscitated (combined installed capacity of more than 2.5m MT), Price reduction from 9,000-11,000 per bag, to 5,500 , FX savings of $150m annually through the substitution of imported components with locally manufactured ones and subsidy savings of N50 billion annually. It will also be recalled that the administration launched series of funding and capacity development initiatives designed to support MSMEs. To this end, the new Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) has finally taken off, with initial funding of US$1.3 billion (N396.5 billion); to provide medium and long-term loans to MSMEs. Since 2017, the DBN has disbursed a total of N100 billion through the bank’s 27 Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) impacting more than 100,000 MSMEs. Notably, 52 per cent of loans disbursed in 2019 were to youths and women owned businesses. Moreover, Bank of Industry has disbursed more than N400 billion in loans to large, medium, small and micro enterprises since 2016. It has also established a N5 Billion Fund for Artisanal Miners, as part of the Federal Ministry of Mines and Solid Minerals Development’s Programme to boost Mining activities in Nigeria; as well as a $20 million Fund to support young technology entrepreneurs in Nigeria. The MSME Clinics, which bring relevant government agencies together with small businesses operating in various cities across the country, to enable the agencies provide direct support to these businesses. The interactions allow the Agencies better understand the issues facing small businesses, and provide a platform for speedy resolution. The work of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (inaugurated by President Buhari in August 2016) and the Enabling Business Environment Secretariat (EBES) has resulted in Nigeria moving up 39 places on the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings since 2016. In the last three years, Nigeria has twice been adjudged one of 10 Most Improved Economies in the Rankings. In the same vein, the Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC) in 2017 completed a long-overdue revision of the list of activities that can benefit from Nigeria’s Pioneer Status Incentive, which grants beneficiary companies a 3 to 5-year tax holiday. The Finance Act, 2019 is the first time Nigeria is accompanying the passage of a Budget with complementary fiscal and business environment reforms legislation. The 2020 Budget is also the first time in 12 years that a Federal Budget has been restored to the January-December cycle. Apart from this, in January 2019 precisely, President Buhari launched Nigeria’s Micro Pension Scheme – which allows self-employed persons and persons working in organisations with less than 3 employees to save for the provision of pension at retirement or incapacitation. The administration also prioritized the payment of pension arrears owed staff of current and privatized/defunct Federal agencies. N54 billion released to settle outstanding 33 per cent pension arrears (the 33 per cent pension arrears date back to 2010 when the minimum wage was increased to N18,000). Delta Steel Company (liquidated in 2005): 3,542 pensioners have now been placed on the payroll, ending a 13-year wait for their entitlements. NITEL: 9,216 pensioners payrolled, after more than a decade of neglect. Another boost for this government is Buhari’s approval of the payment of the pensions of the Retired Biafran Police Officers, dismissed by the Federal Government in 1971 after the Civil War ended, and pardoned by ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo in 2, 000. The sum of N571.56 million was paid to a total of 174 beneficiaries in October 2017. The Buhari- led administration established the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations by the Economic Management Team (EMT). The NOTN has produced the nation’s first Annual National Trade Report, and is compiling, for the first time in Nigeria’s history, a comprehensive database of Nigerian Trade Deals and Agreements. The Renminbi-Naira Swap Agreement between the Peoples Bank of China and the Central Bank of Nigeria: On April 27, 2018, the CBN signed a 3-year bilateral currency swap agreement with the Peoples Bank of China (PBoC), worth Chinese Yuan (CNY) 15 billon – equivalent to N720.00 billon or US$2.5 billion. Prior to this administration, budget proposal submission, used to be done manually (submissions in hard copy and flash drives), but this has since moved to an online platform, the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS), since 2018. The new Budget Submission System significantly improves the transparency and efficiency of the budgeting system and restoration of Federal Budget to January-December cycle, with the 2020 Budget, for the first time in 12 years. Before he took over from his predecessor, most of the state in the country could not pay salaries to their worker, hence the need for his intervention. The Buhari Administration extended more than N2 trillion Naira in bailout packages to State Governments, to enable them meet their salary and pension obligations, especially in the face of dwindling oil revenues in the first 3 years of the Administration. In the area of infrastructure,the Buhari Administration has demonstrated a single-minded commitment to upgrading and developing Nigeria’s Transport, Power and Health Infrastructure. Presently, three major rail projects inherited from previous administrations have been completed and commissioned, while Abuja Metro Rail and the Abuja-Kaduna Rail, and the 327km Itakpe-Ajaokuta-Warri Rail, started in 1987, have been completed in 2020. A fourth Rail Project, the Lagos-Ibadan Rail Project, kicked off in 2017, and is due to be completed in 2020. The tracklaying for the main component of the project was completed in March 2020. Also, Abuja’s Light Rail system has been completed; it connects the city center with the Airport, and the Abuja-Kaduna Railway Line. The new Abuja and Port Harcourt International Airport Terminals completed, in Q4 2018, while thw new Lagos and Kano International Airport Terminals scheduled for completion in 2020. All were inherited from the previous administration at various stages of completion, and in some cases required project redesign and revision. The Buhari Administration successfully completed the reconstruction of the Abuja Airport runway within the scheduled six-week period (March – April 2017), and will complete the reconstruction of the Enugu International Airport Runway in 2020. About 25 Road Projects is being funded by the Sukuk Bonds. The road projects under the administration include;Construction of Oju/Loko–Oweto bridge over River Benue to link Loko (Nasarawa state) and Oweto (Benue state) along route F2384, Dualisation of Abuja–Abaji–Lokoja Road section I (International Airport link road junction–Sheda Village). Also, dualisation of Suleja–Minna Road in Niger State Phase II (km 40+000-km101+000), dualisation of Abuja–Abaji–Lokoja Road: Section IV Koton Karfe–Lokoja in Kogi State, dualisation of Lokoja-Benin Road: Obajana–Okene in Kogi State, dualisation of Kano–Maiduguri Road linking Kano–Jigawa–Bauchi–Yobe, dualisation of Kano–Maiduguri Road linking Kano–Jigawa–Bauchi–Yobe–Borno States, among others. In the Power Sector, the Federal Government’s Energizing Economies Programme is a public-private partnership led by the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), to deliver stable power supply to markets and economic clusters across the country. The government intervened in Ariaria Market in Aba, Abia State (32,000 shops), Sura Shopping Complex in Lagos (1,000 shops), Shomolu Printing Community in Lagos (4,000 shops) and the Sabon Gari Market in Kano (12,000 shops). The Sura Shopping Complex project was completed in August 2018, and commissioned by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo in October 2018. The government also launched a 1.3 Trillion Naira Payment Assurance Programme designed to resolve the liquidity challenges in the Power Sector by guaranteeing payments to Generating Companies and Gas Suppliers. Part of the intervention was the implementation of a Willing Buyer, Willing Seller Policy for the power sector, which has opened up opportunities for increased delivery of electricity to homes and industries. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has also recently issued an Order capping estimated billing by DisCos. Presently, more than 90 Transmission Projects completed or ongoing since 2016. In the oil and gas sector, NNPC is set to commence construction of the 614km Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) natural gas pipeline, which will traverse Kogi, Niger, FCT, Kaduna and Kano, and feed power plants and industries along the corridor. The NNPC has paid the 15 percent counterpart funding for the $2.9 billion project, while the Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the issuance of a sovereign guarantee to cover the rest of the funding, coming from the China Export and Credit Insurance Corporation. Removal of the fuel subsidy regime and replacement by a market-led price modulation mechanism is another testimony of the present administration. The Modular Refinery Initiative of the Buhari Administration has delivered 3 completed private sector-led projects, in Rivers, Imo and Delta States, and several others are in progress. Eminent personalities like former President Olusegun Obasanjo have publicly commended the success recorded in that sector by the Buhari Administration. The administration has also made investing in people compulsory.  The SIP is the largest and most ambitious social safety net programme in the history of Nigeria, with 12 million direct beneficiaries so far At least, 500,000 N-Power beneficiaries currently enrolled and have been deployed and are receiving N30,000 in monthly stipends. Additional 40,000 are at various stages of enrolment. Home Grown School Feeding Programme (HGSFP) is another area. About 9.9 million Primary 1 – 3 pupils being in 54,952 public primary schools in 35 States are enjoying this gesture . More than 107,000 cooks are engaged to deliver these meals. More than 3 million poor and vulnerable households have been registered on the National Social Register, and more than one million of these families are currently benefiting from the Conditional Cash Transfer Scheme, which pays N5,000 to each household monthly. In the education sector, the Federal Government disbursed more than N170billion in UBE Matching Grants to States and the FCT since 2015, N8billion in Special Education Grant to States and private providers of Special Education, and 34 billion Naira from the Teachers Professional Development Fund to States and the FCT. The administration has also given aapproval for the establishment of Federal Maritime University, in Delta State, Nigerian Army University, in Borno State, Six new Colleges of Education (one per geopolitical zone) and transfer of Almajiri Schools built by the previous administration to State Governments and credible Scholars of Islamic Education, for efficient administration and impact. In the Healthcare sector, a minimum of $2.5 million disbursed to each State of the Federation and the FCT, under the Saving One Million Lives (SOML) initiative, to improve health outcomes. For the first time since the National Health Act was passed in 2014, the Federal Government included the 1 per cent minimum portion of the Consolidated Revenue Fund – amounting to 55 billion Naira – in the 2018 budget, to fund the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF). The Fund is designed to deliver a guaranteed set health services to all Nigerians, through the national network of Primary Health Care centers. The Buhari-led administration’s ‘New Vision for the Niger Delta’, however,  brings together a robust set of promises, solutions, targets and initiatives aimed at ensuring that the people of the Niger Delta benefit maximally from the region’s oil wealth. The New Vision offers a detailed response to the 16-point Demand Agenda submitted to President Buhari by the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) in November 2016. In the area of anti- corruption, the new Whistleblowing Policy introduced by the Federal Ministry of Finance in December 2016 has since then yielded several billions of Naira in recoveries from tax evaders and public officials. In the first two years alone it yielded N7.8 billion, US$378million, and £27,800 in recoveries from public officials targeted by whistle blowers. With the development of draft Whistleblowing and Witness Protection Bill 2019, EFCC recovered N794billion between 2015 and 2019, in addition to hundreds of properties and other assets. In the area of security, the Buhari-led administration rolled out the most significant response to Nigeria’s multifaceted security challenges, since 1999.  The administration Increased Investments in Arms and Weapons that is, Government to Government military deals with the Governments of the US, China, Russia, Pakistan, and so on have helped eliminate expensive and opaque middlemen. In April 2020, a first batch of 17 military vehicles (VT-4 main battle tanks, ST-1 wheeled tank destroyers, self-propelled howitzers etc) arrived from China, for the fight against Boko Haram. The Nigerian Air Force has acquired 22 brand new aircraft since President Buhari assumed office in 2015, and is expecting another 16, including the 12 Super Tucano currently on order from the United States Government, and due for delivery starting 2021. In the area of Bilateral Relations, Buhari’s April 2016 official visit to China has no doubt unlocked billions of dollars in infrastructure funding, primarily for road and rail projects.    PMB’s Govt Has Been Very Fruitful – Lai Moh’d Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in this interview with TUNDE OGUNTOLA speaks on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari in the last one year. In the last one year, how would you assess the Muhammadu Buhari administration’s performance in the fight against insecurity? The federal government sometime late last year, took some decisions in securing the nation’s border, what we call border drill which many people called border closure. One of the major successes of the border closure is that it drastically reduced the importation of small arms into the country and that has reduced the incidence of armed robbery, banditry and kidnapping because before then our porous borders were veritable avenues for smuggling of arms and drug trafficking. You will also notice that in the last couple of weeks and months, our armed forces have taken the battle to the Boko Haram insurgents and the combination of the air force, air firepower and the new morale of the army have resulted in not just routing of the Boko Haram insurgents but in the surrender of many of their commanders. I think, clearly, the last couple of months have witnessed a lot of success in our battle against the insurgents and then of course the bandits, the kidnapping is also being checkmated. Yes, it might not be completely eradicated but compared to what it was this time last year to what it is today, there are some isolated cases of bandits and kidnapping but the kind of cattle rustling, the kind of kidnapping that was rampant a year ago, is not what it is today.  Has the government done enough to provide infrastructure within the last one year? I think the government remains focused and convinced that you cannot achieve economic development without investing in infrastructure and I will start with power. The government took one of the boldest moves to improve power situation and banish power cuts, when in July 2019, it signed an agreement with Siemens of Germany to give us in the first instance by the end of 2021 to ramp up our power supply to 7,000megawatts, by 2023 to ramp up power supply to 11,000 megawatts and thereafter we would have addressed the challenges of transmission, distribution, scale it up to 25,000 megawatts. If you don’t take it into context you will not appreciate that these are landmark achievements. Although, we have the capacity to generate 13,000 megawatts, in truth, what gets to our households and factories is about 3,400 megawatts. With the agreement we signed with Siemens and the cooperation of our discos, we are confident that by the end of next year power that will reach our homes on a regular basis will be about 7,000megawatts, that is more than double what we are having now and it will impact on our economic and social lives, create more jobs and at the same time improve outputs of our factories and manufacturing. Of course, you are aware that even before now we have always prided ourselves as the administration that has delivered most on infrastructure, either you are talking about roads, bridges, power and despite COVID-19, I know that we are resuming work in 50 sites in 26 states in the next couple of weeks, directly by the Ministry of Works and Housing, including the Abuja-Kano roads, Port Harcourt – Enugu expressway, Lagos – Ibadan among others and similarly the Federal Roads Management Agency (FERMA) is also resuming work in 92 locations spread across to 24 states in the federation and work has already resumed on the laying of rail tracks on the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge, as a matter of fact, we have already started test run.  What is your take on job creation in the last one year? One of the major things about the economy is job creation. The N-Power is being upgraded and only recently the federal government directed the Ministry of Labour and Employment to engage 1,000 workers from each local government of the federation, making 774,000 young men and women for the initial period of three months. They will be earning a salary of N20,000 a month for those three months. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic which has actually affected not just health but also the livelihood of Nigerians, the government has put in place some palliatives meant to cushion the effect of the pandemic ranging from interest reduction to interest waiver, to providing bulk sum to cushion the effect of the pandemic on Nigerians, there is the N50 billion fund that the CBN has put aside for households and the SMEs, another N1.3trillion put aside for pharmaceutical companies and manufacturers. And I think one of the first things Mr. President did during the lockdown was to engage the Minister of Industry Trade and Investment to ensure that industries, manufacturers operate without any hindrance and raw materials, both agriculture and otherwise, reach the factories in good time. Like every economy in the world is affected by the pandemic, I don’t think there is any aspect of the economy whether it is travels or oil industry that is not affected but despite that government has taken steps to ensure that the impact would be not as devastating as it would have been and that’s why the government had to rejig, bring down the size of the budget to a level that would be manageable with its resources because we all know that the price of crude went down to almost $10 at a time, fortunately for us, it is climbing up again to $40 a barrel. This is a time that we need very astute management of resources.  What has the current administration done to reduce corruption to the barest minimum? Our fight against corruption remains very much on track, the major anti-corruption agencies ICPC in particular and the EFCC have continued to do their work. And in the last one year alone the ICPC, in particular, has been able to recover over N81billion. And the breakdown is as follows; they have been able to recover about N42bn, money restrained when they reviewed MDAs personnel expenditure and capital development fund; they were able to confiscate lands, buildings and vehicles worth about $35bn; they were able to retrieve about $1.2bn cash from the Single Treasury Account (TSA); they recovered about $770m from constituency projects, which they tracked; recovered N81bn from the completion of constituency projects when the contractors returned to site. Before now the contractors had abandoned the projects, but when the ICPC started what they called the constituency project tracking group, they were able to get at least almost 400 jobs done when the contractors returned to the site. Another N1bn was recovered from completed constituency projects and another N865m cash from other accounts. What they actually did was they established what they called constituency tracking group which they renamed the constituency and executive project tracking group to track the performance of contracts that impact on the lives of average Nigerians, and 424 of such projects were tracked in the last one year and this led to the completion of several projects amongst them. As of today, we have about 400 of such projects completed in the areas of health, agriculture, educational and water resources. In the areas of persecutions, they have received about 1,934 petitions, they have investigated about 588 of those petitions, they are currently pursuing 105 of those petitions in court and they have secured 25 convictions in the last one year alone. The ICPC has also escalated the use of administrative sanctions in public service by periodically submitting to the executive arm of government officers that are facing sanctions or officers that are being charged to court and at the last count, I think 62 names were submitted for sanctions by the ICPC and the federal government obliged them, so today unlike in the past it is very unlikely for the public servant to be charged for any criminal offence and still be in office. The commission now reviews the personnel and capital fund expenditure of 201 MDAs and it has restrained about N42billion on inflated personnel cost which would otherwise have been diverted. EFCC on its part has secured 1,270 convictions in the last one year and has recovered N42billion. In addition, they recovered $10,348, £758,155, €183,475, 294,950 Saudi Riyal, 2,800 Chinese Yuan, 300 Canadian Dollars and 500 CFA. The important thing about the EFCC conviction is that it includes several high-profile people, it also succeeded in getting P&ID Nigerian Limited, which was fingered in the massive scandal in which Nigeria was being told to pay $9.6billion. We were able to persecute them, convict, not just the directors, but the company itself and today the entire company has been forfeited to the federal government and liquidated. In the area of executive orders because this government wants to further deepen democratic practices, on May 22, this year, Mr President signed another executive order which gave state legislation and judiciary financial autonomy. This is very important because not only does it further deepen the separation of power doctrine, it also allows for speedier delivery of justice. By lack of funds because they don’t wait for the centre to release funds to them.  What about food security, how would you assess the administration performance in agriculture in the last one year? Agriculture is another area where the government has taken a very bold initiative. Three weeks ago, the Federal Executive Council approved what is called the Green Imperative, which is the biggest agricultural revolution we will witness in many years. The Green Imperative is a Nigerian-Brazil bilateral agriculture development programme, a culmination of four years of very painful negotiations, including technical and diplomatic visits between Brazil and Nigeria. This is a programme that has been very successful in Brazil, it is actually called the More Food International Programme (MFIP). Between 2016 and December 19, several high level ministerial technical visits and exchanges between Brazil and Nigeria and during one of such visits in March 2017, the protocol of intent was signed with the government of Brazil. In January 2019 his Excellency the vice president, in the presence of the representatives of the Deutsche Bank, Brazilian government as well as the Islamic Bank, launched the Green Initiative in Nigeria with Brazilian and Nigerian private sectors in attendance. The programme is unique because it’s a $1.2bn loan in kind over a period of five to 10 years and the funding is to be provided by the development bank of Brazil and the Deutsche Bank, the insurance for the funding is provided by the Brazilian Guarantee and Management Agency and the Islamic Cooperation for Export Credit. The programme is unique in the sense that it is the first attempt and successful one at mechanising agriculture in Nigeria. For the first time, we are meaningfully moving away from the hoe and cutlass farming. We are going to be importing annually for the next 10 years, knocked down parts of tractors and farm implements, which will be assembled in Nigeria. Already the technical committee on the Nigerian side has inspected six assembly plants in Nigeria, one in each geographic zone where these tractors and farm implements will be assembled. Five of these assembly plants have been reactivated and they are waiting for the completely knocked downs to arrive to start work. So you see that in one breath, we have revised otherwise moribund assembly plants, in the process creating more jobs and transferring technology in the process because they are now going to be involved in tractors assembling. But the great story here is that unlike other programmes of agriculture, this is going to be completely private-sector driven, apart from guaranteeing the loans, the federal government has no role to play in this. It has spent the last four years negotiating the technical and financial sides but the implementation is going to be completely private sector and it starts first with the revamping of the six assembly plants, which will assemble not just the tractors but other farm implements. Then it will now establish 142 agro-processing service centres which are meant to add value to the raw materials where processing and value will be added to the products. And the way it works is that we look at the aggregate of local governments, about four or five and we determine which is the major produce. The programme will also establish 632 mechanization service centres, which would support primary production in the 774 local government areas of the federation. The mechanization centre is where tractors would be serviced, parts would be replaced and while it is difficult for a smallholder farmer to acquire a tractor because he doesn’t have the means but he has at his disposal now the service of tractor owned by the private sector, which he can hire to clear his land and that is the difference between this programme and other programmes. The programme will create about five million jobs and inject about $10bn into the country in the next 10 years. It is going to revitalize our research institute because there is this technology package between Brazil and Nigeria and the programme benefit will include the transfer of knowledge from Brazil to Nigeria. It is probably one of the most important decisions and steps were taken by this government. It took four years of very painful negotiations but it was only passed two and half weeks ago. In the area of agriculture there is no turning back, right now what we are waiting for is for the national assembly to approve our request to take the $1.2bn loan and we were assured that within four weeks of approval the Deutsche Bank is ready to disburse but the unique thing with the loan is not a loan where $1.2bn will be paid to Nigeria to disburse. The loan is in kind so the Deutsche Bank, the Brazilian bank would deal directly with the manufacturers of the knocked down parts which they are going to ship to Nigeria and you can see that we have taken a lot of steps to ensure that this programme succeeds. Also, the border drill is also not about security, it is also about agriculture. With the border drill, we have been able to finally stop the bleeding occasioned by the regular smuggling of imported rice in particular. Before now, imported rice dominated our markets but with the border drill, it is rice-like Big bull, Confluence rice, among others that are in the market today and what this has done is that it has not only led to almost food sufficiency but has also led to more integrated mills, at the last count we had about 34 integrated rice mills all over the country and today we produce about 150,000 bags of milled rice and there are about 35,000 million bags in a year. And this means more food, it means more employment.  How will the new visa policy launch this year encourage investment and promote tourism? The new visa policy is a bold policy and today we have 79 categories of visa, but the one that interests most is the one for ECOWAS, for Africans, for businessmen and it has been so simplified that with the new visa policy any member of ECOWAS does not need a visa to enter ECOWAS. All you need is your valid passport. Frequent travellers have a category also. The beauty of this visa relaxation is that it will encourage more investment in the country, make tourism easier and lead to better integration among Africans.  How would you assess the response of the administration to the COVID-19 pandemic? COVID-19 took the entire world by storm and surprise but I will say one of the countries that were not taken by surprise is Nigeria, because a whole full month before the first incident, Nigeria had mounted vigilance on all its airports. I remember we came in January and from that point in time our temperature was being taken, we were being asked to fill forms when even most parts of the world did not take such precautions. By the 31 of January, the first inter-ministerial preparatory group was put together comprising of Ministry of Health, Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Industry, the UN, WHO, Ministry of Information to start preparing on how to contain this pandemic. And on the 9th of March, less than two weeks after the first index case in Nigeria, the federal government inaugurated the PTF and it immediately went into action. And one of the first steps it took was banning travellers from 15 countries that had high incident of the virus (have more than 1,000) you are not allowed to come into Nigeria, we didn’t know that 1,000 was a joke then we followed by the closure of our international airports, suspended the National Council of State meetings, FEC meetings, the federal government released N10 billion to Lagos, another N5 billion to NCDC to equip, train personnel and combat the pandemic; gave marching orders to Ministry of Trade Industry and Investments to ensure that free flow of manufacturing of essential pharmaceutical and medical products. The thing about our response to this pandemic is that we are guided by science, by expert advice because as a member of the PTF Covid-19, we meet every day and fortunately, we have the UN representative so we are abreast with the latest developments in the world. We are guided solely by science and experts and our risk communication committee has done so well in enlightening Nigerians. But when the cases were increasing, we locked down Lagos, Ogun and the FCT for the first initial 14 days. It was renewed thereafter, the impressive leadership of President Buhari has not gone unnoticed, and has resulted in the ECOWAS council of State to name him as the champion in the fight against Covid-19 in the sub-region. Nigeria was also the first African nation to separate the serum sequence of Covid-19 and this has helped a lot in understanding the virus and trying to get the vaccine and this got the commendation of the WHO for this feat. The UN was also impressed by the way that the Covid-19 is being handled in Nigeria and did not hide its happiness. The PTF has continued to formulate and implement a strategy to fight and checkmate the virus and to keep Nigerians safe. For me I will conclude by saying that the last one year has been very fruitful for the government in terms of infrastructure, fighting corruption, power, agriculture, we are expanding.  Will you say that this administration has done well to inspire hope in the minds of the citizens, is there hope for the Nigerian girl-child amid the rising cases of rape in the country? On the contrary, we have received requests from trafficked girls wanting to come home as many of them have realized that the situation there is worse than Nigeria. We received requests even before the pandemic from many of them, saying they were tricked. A decision of someone not wanting to come home might be personal, sometimes. I am told that before they go that they have taken a lot of money from their sponsors, who swear them to secrecy. Some of the things we are witnessing in Nigeria today are very strange developments. The Nigerian Society has a lot of respect for the girl child and the Nigerian government, in particular, you can see that barely a week passes before you hear from NAPTIP on the efforts to rescue those who have been trafficked or to repatriate home some and in particular, the Lagos State government have been very active in ensuring that not just girls but children, infants are not maltreated and there are enough laws in Nigeria to protect the girl child. But the community must take ownership of this situation. Why crime management is more successful in other parts or the world is because they don’t leave policing to the police alone or security alone. The police have helped largely by the information it receives from people so Nigerians should help us, when you see an uncompleted building you know it is a den, report to the police, take communal action. I’m not saying take laws into your hands but the police is not able to go everywhere and see everything. We all must take responsibility, parents in particular must take responsibility. We will continue to firm up laws and I think the various anti-juvenile crimes are working hard but let society also help.  You mentioned some of the benefits of border drill, under this administration, again people have recalled that the closure has led to a crisis between Nigeria and some of its neighbours, Benin Republic in particular. We want to know what is the situation now in terms of relationship? In any diplomatic relationship, you take care of your own interest first. When we look at the balance, you ask yourself this decision you are taking how much does it hurt my country and its people. We cannot because we want to be nice destroy your own economy, destroy your security, allow drugs to enter your country. I think without prejudice to the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I believe that as of today Nigeria’s decision in respect of the border drill is in the overall interest of Nigeria. And that is the first consideration in any diplomatic relations and it is because we are surviving as a country that is why there is any relationship. And what Nigeria is asking the Benin Republic is to let us all obey the ECOWAS protocol on the transit of goods. That is all we are saying, which means if they bring good into Nigeria through your country don’t open the containers, bring them to the borders, accompany them to the borders, we examine people will pay duty and go.   Political Leaders Collapsed Nigeria’s Nationhood – Kukah Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Bishop Matthew Hassan Kukah, in this interview with ANKELI EMMANUEL, reflects on 21 years of Nigeria’s unbroken democratic journey, concluding that political leaders have done more harm than good to the well-being of the nation. What is your view on Nigeria’s Democratic journey 21 years after? Nigeria’s Democratic journey did not start 21 years ago. If you want to ask what progress we have made, look at the faces of Nigerians. Look at the quality of life that Nigerians are living and you need not look anywhere to find answers to this question. What is the state of our health as individuals, communities and a nation even before the corona virus descended upon us? These are the mirrors of our successes or failures. How has 21 years of Democracy turned into years of blood in the land? How has the land become one mass killing field, with mass burials and cemeteries taking over the landscape? So, the answer to your question is right before you and you can tell by if people feel that they are better off now than they were. Look at the quality of political actors that we have and you can assess how much progress we have made. We have had a very high turnover of political beneficiaries, but the nation is clearly not making much progress because our sense of nationhood has collapsed.  Some Nigerians still kick against June 12  being the officially recognised as Democracy Day as against the initial May 29. What is your view on that? The fact that the political actors are not even in agreement as to the dates for their so called celebrations should tell you the consequences of the blind leading the blind. Is it not somehow tragic? It is the military men of yesterday who benefited from coups that undermined Democracy (General Obasanjo and Major General Buhari) that are now quarreling over which of them should erect a monument for Democracy? Can you imagine that? It is a measure of how confused we are as a nation. One day, those who understand Democracy and symbolism will come to the stage, till then, this is merely a choice between six and half a dozen of counterfeit coins  But we must have made some form of progress after 21 years. If you think none was made, where did Nigeria get it wrong? In terms of the distance travelled, yes, but the conditions under which we are travelling have only worsened as our pains have continued to increase. We are trekking and they are in their parade of air conditioned bullet proof Jeeps which we did not manufacture. Why are we not ashamed of our leaders moving around and saluting themselves in vehicles they did not make? You remember what the famous Lebanese poets, Khalil Gibran once said: Pity the nation that wears a cloth it does not weave and eats a bread it does not harvest. That is the pity of our dear nation today.  How can Nigeria get it right? You can only get it right if you know what is right and what is wrong. So far, those who are doing wrong do not understand or accept that they are doing wrong. So, if there is no difference between right and wrong, you cannot contemplate what getting it right means. But, the day I see a Nigerian President at Eagle Square riding in a vehicle from a locally manufactured Nigerian vehicle, I will know that we are close to knowing what it means to get it right.  What kind of reforms do you want to see in the nation’s political space? The beneficiaries of the suffocating system of the moment are not prepared for a real debate about the direction of our country. You can dream of all the infrastructure, but in reality, most of the change has to come from the mind. We must dismantle the stranglehold that a combination of feudal and military over centralisation of power that fears human freedom and glorifies tyranny has on us. What you are seeing, Boko Haram, banditry, kidnapping, all of these are mere symptoms of a systemic malfunction. No amount of panel beating will do unless we open up the frontiers of imagination and freedom to enable individuals make their choices freely. So far, we are nowhere near what constitutes Democracy.  Nigeria has been grappling with insecurity for too long, raising the debate on whether it poses a threat to the country’s unity. What do you think? I have already answered that question. I saw a video clip on the social media of an Izala preacher asking how it is that the north has all the security apparatus in its hands from the President right down and yet, the north is the theatre of war. Other parts of Nigeria are relatively peaceful but only those northerners in power can answer why they have offered their homes as a theatre of war and death despite all the instruments of power being in their hands. Regional socio-cultural such as Afenifere, Ohaneze, Midlebelt Peoples Union, and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) recently expressed fury over a comment alleged made by Abdullahi Bodejo of Miyetti Allah Katual Hore on the domination of an ethnic group in Nigeria. What is your opinion on this matter? I don’t want to dignify ignorance and foolishness.  We’ve Been Unfair To Our Heroes Of Democracy – Okei-Odumakin Civil rights activist, Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, is president of Women Arise and the Campaign for Democracy. In this interview with ADEWALE AJAYI, she speaks on the importance of the June 12 struggle and why it remains a watershed in Nigeria’s democratic history. Nigerians have commended President Buhari for recognising June 12 as Democracy Day, and also for according late Chief Abiola a national honour. Are there other things you think the federal government should do to accord the day more honour? The recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day and according late Chief MKO Abiola a posthumous national honour of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) is a gladdening initiative as it assuages Nigerians and believers of the struggles of Abiola with regards to bidding farewell to poverty and enthronement of democratic governance. But the government must take it further by declaring Abiola a past president with all the accrued rights and privileges of a president. Abiola’s dream was that no Nigerian should go to bed hungry. He also believed that public affairs should never be shrouded in secrecy. He therefore campaigned on having a daily report on the production and sale of crude oil, and petroleum products to enhance transparency in governance. He was a champion of indigenous companies and establishments.  The June 12 struggle led to enthronement of democracy and civilian rule. What can you say Nigerians have benefited from civilian rule? Nigerians have enjoyed different levels of liberty under democratic governance but, there is huge room for improvement. For instance, it is through democracy that we have the opportunity of determining who leads us as a people, be it at federal, state and local government levels every four years. This also  gives us freedom of lawful assembly and freedom of speech to mention but a few. Democracy connotes a government that is elected by the majority of the people to advance its social, political and economic life. Patriotism is borne out of genuine care for the welfare and development of the people. As a government, we must take the welfare and security of our people as a priority. For instance, patriotism is promoted by the government by providing affordable and quality health care services to the people. Provision of social amenities and other basic necessities of life such as food, clothing, shelter and security of life and property are some of the cardinal areas of touching the lives of the people. This is the focus of advanced countries and it has helped in curbing crime and insecurity.  Bearing in mind that administrations since 1999 were accused of exhibiting anti-democratic tendencies including disobeying court order, ceasing of local government revenue and so on, do you still think Nigerians enjoyed that much democratic benefits? The benefits that Nigerians enjoyed and enjoy under their leaders differ from one government to another. Notable among some of the benefits was the downward review of the price of petroleum products and public declaration of assets  by late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua. Chief Olusegun Obasanjo succeeded in cancelling some of our Paris Club debts. Dr. Goodluck Jonathan succeeded in implementing the Banking Verification Number (BVN) for all bank account holders among other developmental programmes and policies which helped the anti-corruption fight and curbing of financial impropriety till date. On the part of the implication of their actions to advancing democracy, one must commend the courage of late President Yar’adua who publicly acknowledged that the election that brought him into power was marred with irregularities. Unchecked excesses of these past and present presidents like disregard for public accountability and transparency in governance, disregard for rule of law and a host of others, embolden anarchy and endangered our subsisting democracy. The hallmark of civil rule is liberty, justice, equity and development. If you place Nigeria on a ‘weighing scale’ of such ingredients of civil rule, you can decipher where we truly belong.  Considering the sacrifices late Abiola and other heroes and heroines of democracy made into entrenching democracy in Nigeria, and what we have done with civil rule today, will you say we have been fair to them? The likes of Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti, Chief Gani Fawehinmi, Comrade Chima Ubani, Alhaja Kudirat Abiola and many students hit by stray bullets during June 12 struggles paid the supreme price for our democracy. The reality of the day does not portend that we are fair to the people that are now in the echelons of heroes and heroines of democracy.  Do you think public office holders appreciate the essence of the June 12 struggle, considering the quality of service they render to the nation? It is very unfortunate that we have mere opportunists as public servants under the subsisting civil rule. Most of the people that laid down their lives for the enthronement of democracy were not given the opportunity to serve because they hadn’t  financial muscle. Power was/is brokered to the highest bidder without taking into consideration pedigree, character and competence. Greatness is in service to the people and not self-service. 