Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, who has been in the eye of the storm ahead of the September governorship election in the state, resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday. In this interview with State House correspondents, the governor give insights into the rift between him and his estranged godfather, the national chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. JONATHAN NDA- ISAIAH presents the excerpts. Why are you in the Villa? You remember in my last tweet, after my disqualification was announced by APC, I said I would  make a decision after I’ve consulted with the leadership and my supporters in Edo State and also having informed the president. I am here today to inform you that I have now decided, formally, to resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress. Having done that, I will now announce in the next few days my specific line of action and what platform I will be contesting the gubernatorial election on. Why did you resign your membership? I’m sure the whole country is aware of what has gone on with me and the APC national chairman which culminated in my disqualification as a gubernatorial aspirant. So upon that unfortunate decision by the national chairman of the APC, I’ve decided to go and seek my gubernatorial aspiration on another platform. Oshiomhole said incumbency isn’t a factor for you in the forthcoming election? Time will tell. Let us go to the polls and Nigerians will see. Are there inconsistencies in your credentials? Someone who hasn’t gone to school, who doesn’t have certificate himself, will not know and understand what inconsistencies in certificates are, that’s the starting point. What is the inconsistency? There’s no inconsistency in my certificates. The issue started in 2016, when I first contested for gubernatorial election. I could not find the originals of my certificates because I hadn’t required them for more than two decades. So I deposed to an affidavit that I couldn’t find the originals. Subsequently, I found all the original copies of all my certificates and they are with me. So I don’t understand what the talk of inconsistent is about. Maybe the inconsistency in the Youths Corps certificate where he said my surname was missing an ‘i’ at the end. But if you look at that, it was like a cursive, it was written in a cursive manner. So if that’s inconsistency for him, then it’s really sad that people of that quality are leading Nigeria’s ruling party. For him, it was just to look for an excuse to take whatever decision he wants to take and it’s really sad that the party structure today gives him that sort of authority without checks, which is dangerous for any system or any institution. When you give authority and responsibility to people who don’t have character, people who do not have finesse, a sense of justice, then that institution is imperilled. What did you discuss with PDP governors over the weekend? First, these are my brother governors who are from my sub-region. Some of them have gone through similar experience I’m going through. It’s only proper that when you have challenges of this nature you’ll go and talk to people who have gone through similar experience for advice. That’s basically what I went to do with them. What was the reaction of Mr President? You’ll get that from Mr President. Oshiomhole said you’ll not provide level playing ground for primary? He, Adams Oshiomhole, has he? As governor Wike said, he should practice what he preaches, he has never done so. He has not provided a level playing ground even in the selection process, the disqualification process: what is the basis for disqualifying someone like Chris Ogiemwonyi?  You are afraid of people who are educated because you didn’t go to school. You are afraid of people who have something to offer because all he knows how to offer is brigandage, crisis. So for us, Nigeria has to move forward beyond some of the characters who are currently overseeing our political polity and they are scared. They are scared that when proven people of substance, who have succeeded in other aspects of life come into politics, they will be history. For me, this fight is not about grabbing political power, it’s not about me, and it’s not about trying to prove a sense of importance, no. It’s for us. Twenty-one years into this Republic, democracy must mature, but as democracy is maturing, we now need to begin to show that politics cannot and should not be the preserve of a certain character of people.  People of accomplishment, people of knowledge, people of character must also be accommodated in the political space. You don’t have to be a ruffian to be a politician, you don’t have to be a brigand to be a politician, you don’t have to be a thief to be a politician. What do you think your chances will be flying on another platform? I’m sure if you’ve scanned the environment, you’ve scanned the media, and you’ve scanned social media, the reaction from people across the world, particularly Edos at home and in the Diaspora has, for me, been unbelievable. They’ve said to me, ‘wherever you go, we go’. Why have you come to the State House to make this decision? I’ve said that before I make a decision, I have to show respect to my president, who I adore, who for me is an epitome of incorruptibility, an epitome of order, an epitome of lawfulness. This is the man whom for him that is what Nigeria should be all about. I think I owe him that respect to come and tell him what I have done and why I have decided to take the decision I took. 