The China General Chamber of Commerce has donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to aid the
Nigeria Police Force in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The items donated included one infrared thermal imaging thermometer unit, 40,000 disposable surgical masks and
500 medical protective suits
to the Nigeria Police. The president of the chamber, Yeshui Jin, while making the donation at the Force Headquarters in Abuja yesterday, said that the donation was made with the support of the Zall Foundation and was aimed at ensuring that policemen, who
are in the frontline of battling
COVID-19 are well protected. Jin said that it was only when the police can protect themselves that they can
protect the citizens better.
He appreciated what the police were doing, not just in Nigeria, but all over the world in protecting citizens as well
as foreigners. According to him, “we  know how difficult it is to protect all the citizens across the country and we need to
be united at this time to fight
COVID-19, wherever you come from. We are fighting one enemy, COVID-19, and
we should put our hands and
resources together.” Also speaking, the force public relations officer, DCP Frank Mba, expressed
gratitude over the gesture and promised that the items would be put to proper use. According to him, “we urge other well-meaning organisations, foundations
across the world and within the country, corporate citizens as well as private
citizens to emulate the Chinese Chamber
of Commerce and Zall Foundation in coming out to support the p+olice. We
assure you that these items
would be judiciously utilized. We would ensure optimum utilization of these resources. “This is a reminder to people out there that the police constitutes part of the
front line forces combating COVID-19. Police forces all over the world are clearly part of the frontline forces that are dedicating their lives and putting their lives in danger and doing everything humanly and operationally
possible to keep the citizens
safe and squeeze down the spread of COVID-19.”