President Muhammadu Buhari has read the riot act to security chiefs with the charge to reverse the ugly tide of killings in the country. The president added that the security chiefs best efforts in securing the country are not good enough. Buhari gave this directive during a meeting, yesterday with heads of security agencies. The national security adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rted), who disclosed this to State House correspondents, said the president has declared that excuses will no longer be tolerated as he expects everyone to live up to expectations going forward. Monguno also stated that the President ordered him to meet with all north west governors, including that of Niger State, in order to ascertain the problems and find lasting solutions. He said, “A meeting was just concluded between Mr. President and heads of the security agencies, that is, the operational heads consisting of minister of defence, the service chiefs on the one hand and, on the other hand, the intelligence components, that is, consisting of myself and the intelligence heads. “Today’s meeting basically focused on recent developments. Mr. President has expressed great concern over the declining security situation in the country. “He is extremely unhappy about what is happening and he feels that, even though the security agencies are doing their best, their best is not good enough for him and wants an immediate reversal of the current trend and immediate reversal of our misfortunes in all their dimensions. “Mr. President also told us clearly, in no uncertain terms, that he and indeed the administration campaigned to power on the platform of three issues – fighting insecurity, overcoming our economic difficulties and dealing with the scourge of corruption. “More so, he noted that it takes common sense for anyone to understand that without security, the pursuit of the other two will just be an exercise in futility.” According to Monguno, the president, therefore, warned the security agencies to take into consideration the wider implication of the gradual deterioration of the security of this country as he is not going to accept any further escalation of the security situation. “He also stated that no one was forced on him, he selected everyone individually based on what he feels their records had revealed and, therefore, it is up to individual organisations to live up to the expectations,” he said. “Again, Mr. President has also said that it is extremely important that we in the security agencies must ensure that we justify the leaThe national security adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rted), who disclosed this to State House correspondents, said the president has declared that excuses will no longer be tolerated as he expects everyone to live up to expectations going forward. Monguno also stated that the President ordered him to meet with all north west governors, including that of Niger State, in order to ascertain the problems and find lasting solutions. He said, “A meeting was just concluded between Mr. President and heads of the security agencies, that is, the operational heads consisting of minister of defence, the service chiefs on the one hand and, on the other hand, the intelligence components, that is, consisting of myself and the intelligence heads. “Today’s meeting basically focused on recent developments. Mr. President has expressed great concern over the declining security situation in the country. “He is extremely unhappy about what is happening and he feels that, even though the security agencies are doing their best, their best is not good enough for him and wants an immediate reversal of the current trend and immediate reversal of our misfortunes in all their dimensions. “Mr. President also told us clearly, in no uncertain terms, that he and indeed the administration campaigned to power on the platform of three issues – fighting insecurity, overcoming our economic difficulties and dealing with the scourge of corruption. “More so, he noted that it takes common sense for anyone to understand that without security, the pursuit of the other two will just be an exercise in futility.” According to Monguno, the president, therefore, warned the security agencies to take into consideration the wider implication of the gradual deterioration of the security of this country as he is not going to accept any further escalation of the security situation. “He also stated that no one was forced on him, he selected everyone individually based on what he feels their records had revealed and, therefore, it is up to individual organisations to live up to the expectations,” he said. “Again, Mr. President has also said that it is extremely important that we in the security agencies must ensure that we justify the leadership He added that the president had directed him to work with the minister of Communications and Digital Economy in order to workout a blueprint to ensure the end of the irresponsible use of any SIM card. “Of course, I urge my colleagues, the Inspector General of Police and Director General of Department of State Services, to help in this issue. “Again, my office is going to call on certain governors starting with the governors of the north west zone, including the governor of Niger State, to come over to Abuja so that I meet with them and my colleagues in intelligence and security”. He therefore reassured Nigerians that each and every department or agency would redouble their efforts to ensure that they reverse the country’s dwindling security fortunes. “First, we have to go back to the drawing board, nothing is ever too late. It’s regrettable that lives have been lost, a lot of chaos has arisen, but that doesn’t mean we ditch all our efforts; we are going to go back and that is why I emphasize on collective efforts – the convergence of all our efforts – so that we can streamline and develop more meaningful strategies, but definitely there will be a change.” Asked if there are going to be changes in the leadership of the security team, he said only the president has the prerogative to sack the service chiefs. “These are issues that only the President can address, I’m just an adviser. It’s up to Mr President, he has the prerogative to make any change at whatever time he deems fit; remember he’s the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces and he’s the one ultimately who will take this kind of executive decision,” he added.
DHQ Explains Spike In Bandits’ Attacks The Defence Headquarters has said the spike in bandits attacks is due to recent distribution of palliatives to locals even as he assured that its troops are attending to the issue squarely and adjusting its plans as the situation unfolds. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, gave the explanation while responding to questions during the weekly update on operations. He said banditry has been in Nigeria for a long time and tolerated over time, but that has metamorphosed into violent crimes with people bearing arms and unleashing terror on the people. Troops Kill 52 Criminals
Meanwhile, Nigeria military troops deployed for Internal security operations across the country killed 52 criminals and destroyed several others in their hideouts between 11-18 June 2020. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche Gen Enenche, who disclosed this during a weekly briefing, said two soldiers paid the supreme price in the defence of the nation. “In the period under review, the AFN has neutralized 52 criminals across all theatres with the destruction and recovery of weapons, he said. He said in the North-East, troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE killed 41 terrorists at Monguno in a counter attack and recovered a large cache of arms, ammunition and equipment, as well as the rescue of 33 captives, amongst others. Meanwhile, in the North Central, he said the troops of Operation Whirl Stroke on 14 June, 2020 apprehended one militia leader popularly known as Alhaji Audu from Olegeje community in Agatu Local Government Area of Benue State. Also, in the Niger-Delta region, troops seized a total of 5 illegal refineries, 14 surface metal storage tanks, 9 coolers, 9 cooking ovens and earmarked the site for swamp buggy operations. They also seized about 2,640.5 barrels of stolen crude oil, 80,000 litres of Automotive Gas Oil and 43,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) and neutralised four militants and recovered arms and ammunition during clearance operations on pirates/militants’ camps at Ibokiri and New Jerusalem in Degema LGA of Rivers State. Military Bombards Terrorist Leaders’ Hideout At Garin Maloma
The Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE has destroyed a compound housing some High Value Boko Haram Terrorist (BHT) leaders and neutralized some of their fighters at Garin Maloma on the fringes of the Sambisa Forest in Borno State. Major General John Enenche said the massive air strikes were executed on 16 June 2020 to mark the launch of Operation LONG REACH, a new subsidiary operation in the theatre. He said the attack at Garin Maloma, a major node in the BHT’s line of communication in the Sambisa Forest axis, was carried out following credible intelligence reports as well as days of surveillance missions indicating that the terrorists had begun using one of the compounds in the settlement for accommodation and training of their fighters. We Are Taking Concrete Steps To Make Niger Safe- Bello
Following renewed banditry attacks in some local government areas of Niger State, the governor and Chairman North Central Governors Forum, Abubakar Sani Bello, has assured that his government is taking steps to make the state safe. Speaking after the state security council meeting yesterday, the governor called for calm among the people of the state, especially those affected by bandits’ activities as the government’s determination to ensure the safety of lives and property of it citizens has remained paramount. The governor, who expressed concern over the security situation around the state and the dimension it has taken, said certain measures have been identified that would help to curb the challenge. He said, “I am deeply concerned at the turn of events and have come up with different measures to curtail it. We are taking concrete steps to make Niger State safe.” The governor attributed the recent upsurge of banditry in Shiroro, Rafi, Mariga and Munya areas to the ongoing security operations in Katsina and Zamfara states.