Dr. Alexander Oladele, a Nigerian who runs a travel and tourism outfit in the United States of America known as Jetblack Travel has decried the effects of Coronavirus pandemic on the travel and tourism industry. In a recent interview, the enthusiastic, fun-loving businessman highlighted how the pandemic has impacted his business, giving a picture of how the post Covid-19 era will look like. “JetBlack Travel is coping as best as we can. This has been a tough year for us and other travel organizations. The travel and tourism industry took one of the hardest hits from Covid 19, so many trips had to be cancelled. For our company in particular, we did not cancel any of our trips, but postponed it to the same dates for 2021. It’s a bit difficult to all around cancel a trip especially when major purchases have been made. There are 5 trips in total that we’ve moved to 2021 and as of now, we still have 2 more trips that are slated to take place at the end of this year. These trips are South Africa & Ghana, which, we are hoping can still take place in November and December,” he said. On the question of whether they would be refunding some cancelled trips, he said, “JetBlack Travel did provide options to travelers for refunds, and it was based on our refund policy. We tried to be as understanding as we could, while encouraging travelers to join us next year. Although this was our approach, we learned that there were some individuals who were not fully sure of their schedules for 2021 so we provided them with a refund. Despite this, most travelers have agreed to travel with us next year so we have withheld their payment installments and applied it to their 2021 trip. Adding, “The challenge with travel & tourism is that when a traveler makes a payment or gets on a particular payment plan, the organizations typically makes non refundable payments on their behalf. For JetBlack Travel specifically, when we receive a travelers first payment, we apply that towards their room voucher, the second or 3rd payment usually helps to cover their overall accommodation while subsequent payments cover things such as transportation, meals, excursions, plane tickets etc. To obtain those funds back can often times prove difficult so the best option is to usually move the trip to another date.” JetBlack Travel Group was primarily founded with a view to provide more opportunity to African Americans to gain exposure to countries all over the world by way of group travel. The company was founded in 2018 and now curates trips and life-changing experiences for anyone interested in immersing themselves and learning about cultures outside of the US. The vision, was primarily for Black Americans but it has since been bought into from people all over the world. JetBlack Travel Group was founded in September 2018 with a group of 52 minority professionals taking on a culturally immersive travel experience to Havana, Cuba. Following Cuba, they visited Medellin, Colombia with 45 professionals in early 2019 by working in close collaboration with Reseau Docteur, a well known minority professional network where most of the travelers came from. To date, they have organized trips to Cuba, Colombia, Jamaica, South Africa and Ghana. In 2020, they have countries they are supposed to visit with half of those trips being sold out. Some of those countries include Bali, France, Morocco, Spain, Thailand, Brazil, South Africa and Ghana. But the pandemic has put paid to the plans. “Between all of our trips for this year, we were supposed to take over 100 people around the world. Just for Bali, Indonesia alone, we had 33 guests that we curated this trip for. Of the 33 people, 28 will be moving forward with the trip next year and we anticipate that there will be more interests as we get closer . One of the things that we have noticed is consistent among all our groups is the excitement to travel again. Although our travelers were initially disappointed about the trip being postponed, many of them have mentioned that this experience and lock down would make everything that much more worth it when we do travel. As a company, JetBlack Travel has also changed many of the items we provide to our travelers as part of their gift bags. We now include face masks as well as other sanitization items to ensure that everyone is keeping clean while traveling abroad,” he said.