The Hama Bachama and paramount ruler of Bachama Kingdom in Adamawa State, Honest Stephen, is dead. He died yesterday at the age of 66. The Nzobyalata Hama Bachama and spokesman of Bachama Kingdom, Timawus Mathias, confirmed the monarch’s death yesterday in Numan. Mathias said Mr Stephen died in the
early hours of Sunday at his palace in Numan, Adamawa. “He died following a brief illness. Already, the funeral rights are well underway according to Bachama tradition in Lamurde, the Kingdom’s Headquarters”, he noted, recalling that the late monarch received his staff of office on December 15, 2013, from former governor Murtala Nyako. Mr Mathias also confirmed that the king was a retired officer of the Nigerian Army who ascended the throne in 2012. The late Hama Bachama was the 28th ruler of the Bachama kingdom. He was born in Lagos on March 6, 1954, to the family of Warrant Officer Irmiya Stephen, a prince of Numupo ruling clan, and Lekoni Irmiya, a princess of Kowo clan, both under the Bachama kingdom. PMB Mourns Royal Father, Kogi CJ Meanwhile President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday commiserated with the family of Col Honest Irmiya Stephens (rtd), the Hama Bachama and Paramount Ruler of Bachama Kingdom over the transition of the monarch. The president in a statement by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu also condoled with the Bachama Kingdom, the government and people of Adamawa State, noting that the late traditional ruler who received his staff of office on December 15, 2013, served his community, state and the nation creditably. According to President Buhari, the retired military officer and 28th ruler of Bachama Kingdom, “distinguished himself in the Nigerian Army and devoted his post-service years to promoting the development of his people and fostering unity of his fatherland.” President Buhari also condoled with the government and people of Kogi State over the passing of the state Chief Judge, Justice Nasir Ajana, saying his brilliant legal career will remain a reference. The president in a separate statement by Garba Shehu commiserated with his family, the Nigerian Bar Association and Body of Benchers over the demise of the legal luminary, urging the deceased family and all associates to find comfort in prayers and acceptance of the will of God. ACF Mourn The Late Hama Bachama In the same vein, the apex northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), yesterday said it received with shock the news of the sudden death of His Majesty, Homun Honest Stephen Keira Mana Kpafrato 11 Gbollum Bomo Hama Bachama. In a condolence message signed by its national publicity secretary, Mr Emmanuel Yawe, ACF noted that the highly rated st class ruler of the Bachama people received his staff of office late in 2013, describing him as a refined gentleman who served in the Nigerian Army with distinction. Tributes As Ajimobi Is Laid To Rest Meanwhile, the remains of former Oyo State governor and former deputy national chairman of APC, Senator Abiola Ajimobi was yesterday laid to rest amidst tears and tributes. The former governor was buried within his Oluyole Estate residence, Ibadan. Since it was a private burial, LEADERSHIP gathered from sources who were at the burial ceremony that his body was interred at exactly 10:05 am. The brief ceremony, it was gathered, was attended by less than 20 people in accordance with National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines. At 12 noon yesterday, prayers were offered for his repose at the Sen. Ishaq Abiola Ajimobi Mosque, Oke-Ado. Fierce looking armed policemen were strategically positioned at the residence of the deceased. Movements in and out of the neighbourhood were controlled as the burial ceremony held. Party faithful and other loyalists of the late politician were barred from the burial. Ajimobi was buried according to Islamic rites at his 6th Avenue, Yemoja Street, Oluyole Estate residence in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The Agodi GRA, which was the preferred choice by the Ajimobi family, was not approved by the Oyo State Government on the ground that there is litigation on the property. Speaking, the chairman, Muslim Community of Oyo State, Alhaji Kunle Sanni said both the janazah prayer and burial had just been concluded in the Oluyole Estate residence of the late Ishaq Ajimobi. He said the prayer was led by the Chief Imam of Ibadan, Sheikh Abdul Ganiyu Agbotomokekere around 10am, noting that the 12 noon prayer earlier announced was a decor to prevent a mammoth crowd. In his remarks, the NGF chairman, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, sympathised with the family, APC and Oyo State. He prayed for Almighty Allah to repose the deceased soul. Other Governors who were on the condolence delegation included Dr Umaru Ganduje (Kano), Alhaji Abubakar Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi) and Alhaji Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa). Also present at the Fidau prayer were Oyo and Lagos States’ deputy governors, Rauf Olaniyan and Obafemi Hamzat, and the former deputy governor of Oyo State, Chief Moses Alake-Adeyemo, among other dignitaries. The Oyo State Police Command’s spokesperson, a Superintendent of Police, Gbenga Fadeyi explained that the decision to station its men and vehicles at the Agodi GRA residence of the late governor of Oyo State, Abiola Ajimobi, was to ensure the safety of lives and the property. Don’t Play Politics With My Husband’s Death, Ajimobi’s Wife Warns Makinde Meanwhile, the war of attrition between the family of late former Oyo State governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi and the state government led by Engr Seyi Makinde was rekindled yesterday when the wife of the late governor, Chief (Mrs.) Florence Ajimobi warned against politicizing the death of her husband. Mrs Ajimobi who expressed anger and displeasure over the humiliating treatments meted to her late husband by the present administration in the state, called on Governor Makinde to stop playing bitter politics with her husband’s death, but allow him to rest in perfect peace. She made the plea while receiving members of the Nigerian Governor’s Forum (NGF) in their Oluyole residence. While receiving them, she noted that Makinde had neither visited the family nor sent them message since her husband had been admitted in the hospital till even after the burial, adding that she was just trying to set the record straight going by the unpalatable stories being sponsored by Oyo State government over the death and burial of her husband.