An Edo State Governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Kenneth Imansuangbon has said the state needs urgent repositioning for a better future. Imansuangbon said if he emerges governor, he would impact on the people of the state through the provision of social amenities and better life opportunities. The entrepreneur, who made this known in an interview with Channels Television recently, explained that he had been in private sector for so many years, and had not done any federal, state or local government contracts because he believes in creating wealth. “This means that I have got a plan, mission and method. I have got the answers to Edo. Our schools are bad, and there is no discipline in our schools. I have been running schools for 20 years. I don’t joke with payment of salaries. “It is difficult to make money in our poor state of economy and run a business without doing government contracts, without being patronised by government. Do you know what it is that 50 per cent of students in my school are on scholarship? When policemen die in service in Nigeria, and if their children are in my school, they don’t pay school fees. “What service can be greater than that? Power and politics are about compassion; and it is about who you are. I am that kind of person,” he said. On the issue of zoning in the state, Imansuangbon said he is not worried about the permutations in the state concerning the zone stressing that he has the best chance of winning the election. “I am not worried at all, because I would take you through history. In Edo, we are one people; there is no central, no south, and no north. What we have is a united Edo State. We have one father; we all take our root from the great Benin Kingdom. However, if we go down memory lane, Esan where I am from, they would argue with minority. Yes we are minority, we are majority. “Since 1999, no Esan person in my senatorial zone has been governor but for Osunbor. Osunbor’s time was short-lived, for just about 12 months. You can’t stay 12 months in 20 years; we have not had a fair share. Justice and equity therefore demands that now Edo Central should have the slot. “The Benins are not tribalistic. They love ability, talent, potential and those who can perform. In 2012, I defeated General Charles Airhiavbere in four local governments in Edo south. “So, what the PDP government today needs to defeat the APC administration is to take the governorship to the minority majority because the chunk of votes always comes from Esan. That is what Chief Anenih of blessed memory, did at least for the PDP. By the time I am given the ticket, I will win by God’s grace on the 19th of September.” Referring to his co-contestants for the party’s ticket, he said they are no match to him due to his antecedents. “When you look at my past, my past can tell you more than Ogbeide Ihama and Gideon Ikhine. I respect Ogbeide, I respect Gideon, but they don’t have my record. My record speak for me.” Speaking on the confidence he has in his party, Imansuangbon said he is now confident that things would be done right with Mr Uche Secondus being the party national chairman. “The NEC members and governors are wonderful. We have got the likes of Governors Wike, Tambuwal, Fintiri, Okowa, Udom. We want a free and fair primary in Edo. Secondus has read the riot act, that he wants a free and fair primary. “Now, Edo is for PDP to take or to lose. The primary itself would determine whether we are going to win. Of course, we know that APC is in tatters in the state. “The electorate have made up their mind that if given a free, fair and credible primary, they would vote PDP. “By God’s grace I assure you, this is my fourth political journey, wanting to be governor of Edo State, I have seen battle in the course of trying to be governor. I have engaged armed robbers, kidnappers; I have engaged traders, political merchants, people who don’t like men that are talented like me. I have encountered all sorts of things but, this time around, I believe in God Almighty and I believe in Secondus. “I have been in opposition all through in Edo. I have touched lives. Edo people are yearning and begging for me to have the ticket. By the time I get the ticket, APC would know that its time is up. This is my red card for the APC administration,” he said.