Despite the myriad of challenges the Nigerian ports Authority faces, the management under Hadiza Bala Usman has been able to defy the odds, by weathering the storm of the COVID 19 induced global economic recession. In a virtual interview granted to news men, the MD of NPA stated that, intermodal transport, Security, developing deep sea ports and a drive towards global best practices in port operations are some of the touchstone of her administration. Towards achieving the said objectives, the MD Nigeria Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala Usman revealed that, vessels coming into Nigerian ports are adequately protected, in line with NCDC guidelines. Also pilots have been adequately briefed on how to conduct themselves against the novel COVID 19 pandemic. According to her, “as the gateway to the nation’s economy and in line with the presidential directives, the NPA remained functional, despite the full lockdown recently relaxed across Nigeria. To cushion the effect of the lockdown she said, terminal operators were tasked to ensure rent free period for consignees whose cargoes remain at the Nigerian ports. “When she came on board she further revealed, Nigeria witnessed the highest remittance to the nation’s consolidated revenue. Although her four years in office is not without challenges, she however said it was interesting as operational efficiency have increased”. Hadiza assured to sustain progress made at eastern ports and her resolved for NIMASA to intervene for optimal patronage. The MD who specifically indicated her interest to further facilitate the use of Onne port, pointed out that increase traffic in the eastern ports is an indicator of the rising volume of cargo freights towards optimal capacity. She explained that the drawback experienced during the course of the lockdown has been addressed, with security architecture deployed to overcome security breaches, which was the major source of concern at the eastern ports. Earlier in a remark on how the Nigeria Ports Authority fared well during the lockdown, the MD said after a roundtable with shipping companies and all stakeholders, she contacted the CBN to issue a directive to the commercial banks along the Apapa port and Tin Can Island port to open for business to facilitate the payment of tariff to custom at the ports. She equally assured to complete a rail connection between Apapa-Tin Can ports this year. Hadiza also said the new board members of the NPA would channel their wealth of experience towards developing deep sea ports among other policies which will facilitate additional revenue and operational efficiency would be adhered to.