Corporate organisations are dumping borrowing from banks to raise funds though commercial papers (CPs) in a move analysts say may further drive down interest rates as 14 companies have raised as much as N612 billion through the short term money market instruments this year. Commercial paper which is an unsecured, short-term debt instrument issued by a corporation, typically for the financing of accounts payable and inventories and meeting short-term liabilities has become the toast of corporates taking advantage of the low interest environment. Although benchmark interest rate still stands at 12.5 per cent, yields at the Treasury Bills market had been crashed last year down from double digit to around two to four per cent. Between January and May this year, companies ranging from manufacturing to construction, banking and investments had raised N612.41 billion through commercial papers and analysts say the trend will continue as long as rates remain low in the Treasury Bills segment. Dangote had raise d N100 billion this year from its N150 billion programme while Stanbic IBTC and MTN Nigeria had raised N101 billion and N100 billion respectively. Data from FMDQ OTC showed that First City Monument Bank had raised N29 billion as FSDH, Citibank, Coronation Merchant Bank, Union Bank and Sterling Bank had raised N30 billion, N36 billion, N38 billion, N20 billion and N15 billion respectively. Also, Mixta Real Estate and Dufil Pharma had raised N15.7 billion each, while Flour Mills, Nigerian Breweries and United Capital had raised N30 billion, N91 billion and N5.3 billion respectively. According to the managing director of Afrinvest Securities Limited, Ayodeji Ebo, the low interest rate environment had created an opportunity for corporates to raise funds at rates as low as six per cent. This situation he said would continue to persist as more corporates take advantage of not only CPs but also bond market. Noting that commercial papers are raised by corporates who are comfortable to come out when the rates environment is good, Ebo said this is why people complain when rates are high. “People are always against the government when interest rate is high is because it crowds out private sector and they are unable to get funding. So because interest rate on TBills have dropped most of those companies who borrow from banks at 15 to 20 percent so coming to raise funds at six per cent which is massive savings for them. “So as we are seeing more commercial papers, we will also begin to see more of bonds. Commercial papers are mainly used for working capital to run business but for those that want to go into expansion, they need bond, long term capital.  We so we would also see more of them also come up to raise long term capital via bond for them to be able to expand production capacity.” Also, managing director and chief executive of Cowry Assets Management, Johnson Chukwu explained that “the reason we are seeing an upsurge in commercial papers issuance is because the CBN has crashed TBills rates and private sector investors other than banks are not allowed to invest in OMO. “So with TBills in the range of two to three per cent private sector investors are scampering for money market instruments that they can invest in and banks have taken a cure for the crash in TBills rates to lower their deposit base. “Private investors have been seeking for short term investment opportunities and that is why corporate institutions with relatively credit ratings have come to the market to raise commercial papers at six to eight per cent to take advantage of low interest rate environment with short term maturity needs of investors. That is why we are seeing a flooding of CPs and as long as the low interest rate continues we are going to see more CPs.” Afrinevest’s Ebo while noting that it will be difficult for banks to lure corporates to end as they cannot match the low interest at the CP market, said the increased interest in CPs will have an impact on banks. “What we are seeing is that some of them would be using that (funds raised from CPs) to repay some of their existing loans. It will reduce the banks’ ability to create assets. They will also be forced to lower their rates to be very competitive and as a result the banks now will focus on those who do not have criteria to raise capital so they may have to take on more risk and for some of the companies that are not listed they may not have the means. “They will have to take on more risk lending to companies that may not be able to raise funds through commercial papers and bond market because it is only companies that have that traction and history that can easily raise money” he said. 