Gas which Nigeria has in abundance is one single product derived from crude oil production that can revolutionize Nigeria’s industrial sector and generate enormous revenue, jobs among others, writes CHIKA IZUORA. Statistics in 2018 from Annual Gas Dashboard of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), shows that Nigeria has a proven gas reserve in excess of 200.79 Trillion Cubic Feet (TCF) and about 600 trillion cubic feet unproven gas reserves. Also, Nigeria produces an average of 8.06 billion standard cubic feet per day (BSCFD). 41 per cent of this production is exported, 17 per cent injected into the domestic market. Equally, 31 per cent of the product is used for oil field operations including gas re-injection by exploration companies in production process and the balance 11 per cent is flared. Nigeria has the largest gas deposits in Africa, making it the leader on the continent and eight globally. Industry experts affirms that gas has the potential to catalyse industrial growth and development in addition to its role as a key revenue earner to government. Unfortunately, despite having the highest gas reserves in Africa, only about 25 per cent of those reserves is produced or under-developed. This is to say that there has not been any deliberate initiative to explore gas like crude oil. Only recently, the federal government has made it a priority to unlock and harness the potential of the nation’s gas resources to increase domestic and industrial power supply, raise living standards and support sustainable economic growth and diversification.
Government’s target was to ensure adequate gas supply to generate up to 15,000 megawatts of electricity to the power sector by 2020; stimulate gas-based industrialisation by positioning Nigeria as African’s regional hub for gas-based industries such as fertilizer; petrochemicals; methanol and gas export to high value and strategic foreign markets. Before now, lack of adequate physical, legislative and commercial structures for gas has derailed efforts aimed at boosting the sector since the commencement of oil and gas exploration in 1958.
The National Gas Policy (NGP), a well articulated policy was approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) in 2017, and this was to facilitate the development of the gas sector to drive gas-based industrialisation in Nigeria. This move has given impetus to Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, to begin execution of project focus areas to drive growth of the sector. Such areas include: Driving Reserves Growth, Enhancing Domestic Gas Supply, Championing High Value Gas Export, as well as Leading the Gas Flares-out. The agency has been at the forefront of driving the implementation of three key government programmes for sectoral development, including the Nigeria Gas Transport Network Code (NGTNC), Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP), and the Domestic LPG Penetration. At the 2019 annual DPR workshop for the media in Lagos, the agency in a presentation on, “Nigeria Gas Sector Status, Opportunities, Challenges and Look Ahead,” explained that the NGTNC, which is simply referred to as Network Code, is a set of rules that guide the use of the gas transportation system in Nigeria. The presenter and staff at the Gas Monitoring and Regulation division of the DPR, Mr. Wole Ogunsola, said the Code essentially governs the operations of all the network players including Suppliers, Transporters, Shippers and Agents. According to him, the Code which is patterned after the United Kingdom’s Uniform Code (UNC), shall entrench transparency in the gas industry; fair & non-discriminatory access to the gas network; promote gas trading and deepen domestic gas penetration in-country; promote investments in the gas sector; entrench specialisation and professionalism in gas business; development of the gas industry; and boosting revenue generation for the country. Furthermore, Ogunsola added that the agency was finalising the code, adding that it would be launched either in the fourth quarter of 2019 or first quarter of 2020. He explained that the, “aim is to stimulate private sector participation in building pipelines.”
Another interesting move by government is the launch of an aggressive policy code-named ‘Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP). The NGFCP equally being driven by the DPR is designed for the federal government to award flare sites to competent third-party companies with proven technical capacity and financial capability to take flare gas to market through competitive bid round process. The gas flares-out scheme is the first market-driven programme undertaken on a large scale globally and unique in its potential to attract major investments in economically viable gas flare capture projects whilst addressing a 60-year environmental problem in Nigeria. It is important to note that some progress is being recorded in the effort to end gas flaring and NGFCP is currently underway as interested parties have submitted their Statement of Qualification (SOQ) earlier last year. Following a rigorous evaluation exercise conducted in line with established guidelines, qualified applicants have been notified of their ‘PASS’ status through the DPR website and NGFCP Portal, in readiness for the next stage of the Programme, which is Request for Proposal (RfP) Phase. An expert in natural gas utilisation and Chief Executive Officer, ETEFA GmbH, who is an independent Austrian green tech company, Mr. Johann Rieger, said if all of Nigeria’s gas flare was captured and processed, it could double Nigeria’s power generation capacity, while significantly improving the quality of the air –lower carbon & particulate emissions. “In other words, recovery and utilisation of flare gas will contribute positively to the Nigerian economy by bringing down fuel and energy costs – which will have a trickle-down effect on food prices, transportation costs and ultimately rein in inflation. And the good news is that with the available gas reserves, it is still not too late,” Rieger added. On domestic LPG penetration, the DPR, in collaboration with relevant government agencies, are working to deepen Domestic LPG penetration nationwide and it has revised relevant guidelines to promote investment in the LPG sub-sector while enforcing safety requirements and good engineering practices. The development of the gas sector which had hitherto been hampered by the absence of robust legislative, physical and commercial structures for gas and the mono-product nature of economy are, however, being addressed in a holistic manner via government policies and programmes including the NGP, NGTNC, NGFCP, amongst others. Nigeria is working to leverage its abundant gas potentials to increase the national revenue for sustainable development and the DPR is committed to ensure the realization of these objectives through the full implementation of all applicable policies and programmes. Also, thenChief Operating Officer, Ventures and Business Development of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Mr. Roland Ewubare, while speaking on gas commercialisation effort identified gas flaring as a big national issue. Ewubare, said that in a country with major deficits in energy access, it makes absolutely no sense to be burning gas and that various governments have put in place a commercialisation programme to manage gas flaring. He said that the federal government has already released guidelines for the commercialisation of gas flares. “So, there are about 200 flare points in the country, but not all of them belong to us. There are those who own their own assets. But for the government, it’s about a little over 100 that are now going to be put up as part of this commercialisation programme.” he revealed. According to him, it is run by the ministry of petroleum resources and Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), and that the NNPC does not have a direct role in it, but to the extent that the gas flares points come from its joint venture partners, the Corporation will probably need to sit at the table when that conversation is going on. He said, “But I do agree that the associated gas that we flare right now through an intelligent programme, we can sequester and capture those molecules and use it for the benefit of the broader economy. “We can use it for the compressed natural gas to drive public transport vehicles, you can do LPG and quite a number of things. We haven’t done a good enough job, working with our IOC partners to see how to utilise that gas efficiently.” Speaking on the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano, AKK, gas pipeline project, a major project designed to actualise government’s gas utilization project, Ewubare, said that as a serious corporation, the NNPC, won’t sanction a $2.8 billion without doing basic due diligence around environmental assessment and feasibility. The AKK is a massive project and a 620 kilometre gas line that is going to run from Ajaokuta to Kaduna and into Kano and when completed can transport a fully loaded two billion quantity of gas on a daily basis. The whole idea is to have that whole gas infrastructure in place. The AKK project will open the northern Nigeria corridor for significant expansion in terms of industrial capacity as the line is going to service various gas-based industries, but it is primarily for three major power plants in Abuja, Kaduna and Kano, said Ewubare. “Abuja is 1,350 megawatts, I believe, Kaduna the same size and then Kano is 900 megawatts or so. So 3,600 megawatts of electricity will come from these and you add that to national grid and you begin to see the multiplier effect on industrialisation and impact on the lives of people. It’s a major investment and it should be up for commissioning in 2022 by our current aspiration.” Similarly, also has considered the national domestic gas supply and pricing regulation that was put in place in 2008 to accelerate in-country commercialization of gas in furtherance of the economic growth and aspiration of Nigeria. The federal government has embarked on the robust strategy to leverage on gas resources towards economic growth to guarantee adequate supply to meet domestic gas demand; boost the domestic market; attain full commercialization in domestic gas market and elimination of routine gas flaring; determine the domestic gas requirements of the nation; allocate the gas domestic supply obligation to operating companies and to ensure operating companies comply with their domestic obligations. It also sets out the strategy to mandate and enforce operating companies to gather, process and deploy flared gas volumes to the domestic market and encourage competent third party companies to take gas from flaring operating companies and channel it to the domestic market. But it has been argued at various fora that the Nigeria’s domestic gas development can only happen through sustained implementation of the transitional pricing framework leading to willing buyer–willing seller status, facilitates the implementation of swap arrangements, encourage new players and attract investments, robust infrastructure development of pipelines to link supply sources to demand centers and full implementation of the national gas transportation network code. There are a lot of legislative interventions and operational efforts geared towards gas flare reduction in Nigeria such as review and update regulations and guidelines on gas flaring, effective monitoring of gas flare-down projects, maintaining firm stance against further natural associated gas (NAG) development fields that flare significant volumes of associated gas (AG), enforcing no new oil field development without gas utilization plan, plans to allocate gas flare points to third part investors, enforcing upgrade/ revamp of ageing facilities and enforcement of the $ 3.50/1000scf flare penalty. There is equally a proposal to achieve gas flares-out by 2020 that is predicated on the implementation of key enablers needed to deliver projects, encourage infrastructure, championing effective regulations and strong policies and attractive fiscal terms to encourage gas utilization. Stranded natural gas has huge economic implications for Nigeria since there are humongous stranded gas reserves in the country. Oil accounts for over 90 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings, there is therefore hope for increased revenue from natural gas, if the gas being flared is monetized. Monetizing stranded gas reserves requires access to distribution infrastructure, like the ongoing expansion drive by the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas, NLNG, which is processing LNG for export, and the AKK which will help accelerate domestic gas transportation efforts. Industry experts advises that it has become imperative and appropriate for Nigeria to put in place these infrastructures so as to develop her vast stranded natural gas reserves to serve her economy, strengthen regional cooperation, and meet expanding demand in the world market. Current technologies are fundamentally needed for monetizing stranded gas, and assessment of Nigeria’s achievements in monetizing stranded natural gas reserves. The monetization technologies and projects reviewed are liquefied natural gas (LNG), gas-to-liquids (GTL), compressed natural gas (CNG), gas-to-wire (gas-fired power generation), and gas-to solid. Stakeholders argues that to really encourage gas monetization in Nigeria government must put in place attractive and competitive business environment, initiate aggressive gas exploration to grow reserves, focused implementation of flares out solutions, passage of Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and sustenance of infrastructure development. The possibilities of monetizing natural stranded gas in future are suggested for Nigeria to serve her economy, have a steady and enviable electricity generation, contribute to global greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction, and meet expanding energy and petrochemical demands in the world market. These possibilities include natural gas storage (to minimize gas flaring and enhance oil recovery), improved gas-fired power generation, dimethyl ether (DME), and gas-to-ethylene syntheses to mention just a few. The realisation of the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP) will an advantageous to the country. According to Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, the programme could eliminate routine gas flares by 2020 and enable the government attain some of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Minister explained that the Ministry was committed to attaining the SDGs through the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme. Drumming support for the programme, Sylva was optimistic that several employment opportunities would be created through it. According to him: “In my ministry, we have tested this approach with the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme and in addressing SDG-7, which is to ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. “The NGFCP ticks 14 of the 17 SDG boxes and this will stimulate action over the next two to three years in five areas of critical importance to the SDGs, which include people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership.” Part of the plans to provide affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy for all is the provision of three liquefied natural gas trains for the purpose of generating 3,000 megawatts of electricity and 600,000 metric tonnes of liquefied petroleum gas yearly. The Minister believed this initiative would help reduce the cost of energy across the country. The federal government has frowned and expressed concern with the way gas was being flared in the country. Last year, the government announced an increment in the gas flaring penalty from N10 per 1,000 Standard Cubic Feet (SCF) to $2 per 1,000 SCF of the commodity flared. In addition, it stipulated a fine of N50,000 or a six months jail term or both, on anyone who provides inaccurate flare data. Essentially, the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme, NGFCP is geared at providing a commercial approach to the elimination of routine gas flares by 2020 and drive positive social, environmental and economic impacts in the Niger Delta by mobilising private sector capital towards gas flare capture projects.