The Edo State Government has announced the recovery and discharge of 11 more coronavirus (COVID-19) patients who have now tested negative for the virus and cleared to reunite with the society, following their treatment at the state’s isolation facilities. The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, who disclosed this to journalists in Benin City, said the state recorded one more COVID-19 related death, noting that the elderly are most affected by the virus. The governor identified that the aged population accounts for most fatalities recorded in the state and urged residents to comply with all safety and precautionary measures to contain the pandemic and protect the elderly. According to Governor Obaseki, “We have discharged 11 more COVID-19 patients from the state’s isolation centres, bringing the number of recoveries to 253. However, we recorded one (1) more death. Our elderly population is most vulnerable and must be protected this period. Please stay safe”. Meanwhile, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, said the state was making steady progress in the management of the pandemic, reassuring that the Obaseki-led administration remains committed to containing the pandemic and protecting Edo people. Okundia added that the remaining 532 active cases are being managed at various isolation facilities in the state and are responding well to treatment. The commissioner said the state has so far recorded 817 confirmed cases, 5647 suspected cases and is contact-tracing 2441 persons, while 2165 suspected other cases, including 1819 line-listed contacts and 346 persons of interest (POIs) have been exited after the compulsory 14-day follow up. He added, “While the state government intensifies efforts to protect Edo people from this deadly disease, we urge all citizens to stay at home and observe all precautionary measures against the spread of the infectious disease, including regular handwashing with soap under running water and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing.”