Rachael Adejoh Andrew is a legal practitioner, a solicitor, a mediator, and chartered secretary and the chairperson of the Abuja chapter of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA). In this interview with JOY YESUFU, she asserts that Nigeria does not need new laws but strengthen the existing ones to secure conviction for rapists. What are the major activities of FIDA and the interests it represents?
FIDA is an association of women who have been called and admitted to the practice of law. Fundamentally, you have to be a lawyer who is called to the Bar to be a member of FIDA. We have FIDA all across the globe. In Nigeria, we are in 33 states of the federation. What we do at FIDA is to protect, promote and preserve the rights and interests of indigent women and children. Any issue that touch on indigent women and children that has legal coloration, we take up such matters and we handle them on pro bono basis (free of charge). We don’t have to charge anybody anything but the only thing is that we do our assessment to be sure that any woman whose case we are taking on is actually an indigent one. If you are a woman who
can pay for legal services, we encourage you to get the services of a lawyer so that you can pay for legal services. If we have to do all the matters that concern women on pro bono basis, then why are we lawyers. This is our own way of giving back to the society. We give our skills back to the society by helping indigent women and children when it concerns law. Has FIDA secured convictions for genderbased violence especially rape?
Yes. In fact, we have our compendium of cases which we have handled and secured convictions. When it comes to criminal offences, we don’t prosecute; it is the responsibility of the state. The only situation FIDA can prosecute is if we get a fiat from the attorney-general of the federation (AGF). Fiat is a situation where you want to prosecute as an individual or as an organisation, you need the permission or approval from the AGF. We have had fiat once and we secured a conviction in that particular matter. When we get cases of sexual gender-based violence and rape, we follow them up. You know that cases are not just won in courts when it comes to criminal offences, it begins from investigation. Is the investigation thorough and was it properly done?
Once you have a shoddy investigation carried out, the prosecutor will not have enough facts to prosecute, thereby making it difficult to secure a conviction. So, what we do in FIDA is to follow up from when a complaint is laid and we are put on notice from the police station to ensure that there is no compromise of any sort. Most times, the victims withdraw and tell you they are no longer interested, especially in cases of assault in marriages, rape or defilement. We had a girl of about five years old who was raped in a community and while the mother came to us, the father of the abused girl had collected N50,000 from the perpetrator and said he was no longer interested in pursuing the case. So, during prosecution, we do what is called watching brie; we are a party to the matter even though we are not prosecuting. When the matter is called up, we announce our appearance so the judge knows that FIDA is involved in this case as an interested party watching the complainant’s brief. What is FIDA doing to ensure that the VAPP Act and Child Rights Act are domesticated by the 36 states of the federation?
Unfortunately, the states that have not domesticated the Child Right Act are all in the North. When it comes to Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, it cuts across all the states. At FIDA, we do a lot of advocacy to the governors’ wives’ because many of them are interested in this issue of eliminating all forms of violence. We also do lobbying because you need to lobby the people that are at the state houses of assembly. Luckily, our advocacy is yielding results. FIDA is actually working and partnering with other stakeholders in ensuring that these laws are domesticated in states where they are yet to be domesticated. Nigeria just needs to strengthen her laws. States that have not domesticated the VAPP Act have either the Penal Code or the Criminal Code which touches on sexual offences. So, what we are saying is that let these laws be strengthened in the form of implementation. Let us see more prosecutions; that investigations are carried out and they are carried through. Let us not see the police officers asking questions like, what were you wearing, what were you doing there at that time of the day and truncating investigation? You know that our criminal justice system is such that you are presumed innocent so it is the prosecution that has to nshow that you are guilty. We should not be looking for new laws, we already have enough laws, what we need is implementation. What is the minimum punishment for assault and battery?
From my years of experience as a lawyer, when it comes to assault/ battery between couples, very many of them are not willing to have their spouses prosecuted. You see many women complaining about being beaten by their husbands but are not ready for prosecution. They whip up sentiments like ‘my children, I don’t want them to be traumatised, pastor has begged me, imam has intervened, my parents and in-laws have called me, everybody has called me, I will just forgive him, he won’t do it again’ and then you find that the circle continues and it’s just endless. Most of the time, the victims are not willing to go on with the matter even to be reported at the police station. Those cases are crimes against the state. You cannot do the matter without the consent or the willingness of the victims. Do you support castration of rapists as proposed by the minister of women affairs and social development?
For me, I don’t really think that’s the way to go. If we can follow through with the provisions we have in the law, they are sufficient. By the time somebody is convicted for rape, the maximum sentence is life imprisonment. If someone is already on life imprisonment, of what use is that person? The danger in castration is that if for any reason you castrate someone who later on, it turns out that the person is innocent, you can’t reverse the castration. What is your admonition for intending rapists?
What I will say is that, if it ever crosses your mind to rape someone, just kill that thought; don’t let it grow. Imagine your sister, mother or daughter being raped. Rape is traumatic, the experience is horrifying. It never leaves the victim all through her life. You really don’t have to rape. There must be somebody who will accept you the way you are. Please let us say no to rape.