A three months old baby, Rukayya, was allegedly raped by an unknown individual two weeks ago in Adogi town of Lafia East Development area of Nasarawa State. Rukayya’s mother, Maimuna, narrated that her daughter  who was taken away from her when she was asleep, said she was later abandoned with blood covering her genital. “I fell asleep only to wake up and Rukayya was nowhere to be found,” Maimuna said. The three months old baby is currently receiving treatment at the Plateau State Teaching Hospital in Jos. Maimuma, said the baby is in dire need of help as she appealed for  justice for her daughter and also help with the medical bills. Police public relations officer (PPRO), Nasarawa State Command, Nansel Ramhan, said the police is yet  to get the report. Meanwhile, there is disquiet in Sasa area of Ibadan, Oyo State, over an alleged rape and killing of another female student. Our correspondent gathered that the victim identified as Grace Oshiagwu, a National Diploma (ND I) student of Oke Ogun Polytechnic, Saki was raped and killed at her parent’s house around Idi Ori, Sasa area of Akinyele Local  Government Area of the state. It would be recalled that an 18-year-old undergraduate, Barakat Bello, and 29-year-old pregnant lady, Azeezat Somuyiwa, were recently murdered in the same local government area. The police, in its reaction, said “One Grace Oshiagwu ‘f’ aged 21 yrs, was matcheted on her head in a church mission building at Idi-ori Area Shasha off Expressway by unknown assailant(s) on June 13 at  about 3.00 pm. Following the sudden upsurge of rape and murder of women and girls, a non-governmental organisation, Alliances for Africa (AFA) has condemned the media handlers involved in victim blaming. AFA program manager, Blessing Duru, made the disclosure in a statement issued in Owerri. Duru condemned what she described as the unscrupulous attitude of some media handlers who justify such acts under the guise of “Victim blaming”. According to her, such persons make irrational comments wherein victims are blamed for the cruelty that befell them. She maintained that such comments violate the rights of the victims. There had been a surge in the number of rape cases across the country, with the victims like 22 years old Vera Omozuwa; 16 years old Ezekwe Tina; 18 years old Jennifer amongst others who were brutally raped and murdered by yet to be identified persons. But the National Human Rights Commission and the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons has entered a tripartite agreement with the Nigeria Police to deal with cases of Sexual and Gender Based Violence in the country.