In this article, CHIMA AKWAJA, looks at the last four years of Nigeria’s telecom industry, the challenges and the milestones recorded by the telecoms regulator and why the future is bright for the citizenry. Nearly a fortnight ago, President Muhammadu Buhari reappointed Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta for another five years in office as the executive vice chairman of Nigerin Communications Commission (NCC). The president said the move was to consolidate on the tremendous gains already recorded as well as ensure stability in the telecoms industry. The second term in office according to President Buhari will help the EVC pilot the affairs of the industry towards a higher path of growth, especially at this time when there is increased reliance in digital economy. The reappointment followed the recommendation of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami), in line with the Nigerian Communications Act, 2003 and to consolidate the gains made with the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy. Precisely on August 4, 2015, Danbatta was appointed by the President and subsequently confirmed by the Senate on November 25, 2015 following thorough and rigorous screening by the Senator Gilbert Nnaji-led Communications Committee of the Senate. Danbatta hit the ground running by unveiling his 8-Point Agenda. Focal issues on the agenda include facilitating broadband penetration, improving quality service, optimizing usage and benefits of spectrum, promoting ICT innovation and investment opportunities, facilitating strategic collaboration and partnership, protecting and empowering consumers, promoting fair competition and inclusive growth as well as ensuring regulatory excellence and operational efficiency.  Key Growth Statistics From 2015 till date, despite recession and other macro-economic challenges, the telecoms segment’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP)’s contribution alone increased from 8.50 percent in August 2015 to 10.88 per cent as of Q1 2020. The entire ICT contribution was even higher at 14 percent as of the first quarter of 2020, according to the latest data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Active mobile voice subscribers increased from 151,018,624 in August 2015, when Danbatta came on board, to 189,282,796 as at the end of March, 2020. Between August 2015 and February 2019, when teledensity was measured against the 140 population in Nigeria, teledensity increased from 107.87 to 124.05 per cent. However, after rebasing the country’s teledensity to 91 per cent in February, 2019, in line with international best practice and economic reality, teledensity has impressively increased from 91 per cent to 99.16 per cent as of March, 2020. Internet subscribers increased from 90 million in 2015 to          136.2 million as of March, 2020. Broadband penetration increased from 8 percent in 2015 to 39.90 per cent in March, 2020. This indicate that 76.2 million Nigerians are now on 3G and 4G broadband networks in the country. Also, the number of subscribers that have subscribed to Mobile Number Portability (MNP) service increased from 385, 617 in August 2015 to 1,075,047 as of March, 2020 due to increased public education and awareness by the Commission. The total number of telecoms subscribers that have subscribed either partially or fully to the Do-Not-Disturb (DND) service introduced by Danbatta –led NCC has increased from zero to close to 30 million till date. Today, following the painstaking implementation of the 8-Point Agenda, the country surpassed its broadband penetration target of 30 percent by the end of December, 2018.  Accelerating Broadband Infrastructure Also, closely linked to the effort off of Danbatta-led NCC towards deepening broadband penetration is the Commission’s consistent pursuit of its Open Access Model (OAM) project aimed extending access to digital services across the 774 local government councils through licensing of Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos). To bridge the digital divide, the NCC put in place the Open Access Model (OAM) to take digital services across the 774 local government councils to take broadband services to several unserved and underserved areas through licensing of Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos). In 2018, the NCC was able to increase the number of InfraCo licences to six to drive the deployment of broadband infrastructure. The licencees include Raeana Nigeria Limited for the South-South Zone; O’dua Infraco Resources Limited for South-West Zone; Fleek Networks Limited for North-West Zone; Brinks Integrated Solutions for North-East Zone; MainOne Limited for Lagos Zone and Zinox Technologies Limited for the South-East Zone. The remaining licence for North Central Zone is being processed, according to the Commission. As a stimulus to encourage investors of InfraCo to roll out, NCC made provisions in the 2017 and 2018 budgets for subsidies to the InfraCo licensees and it is now working with the federal government, through the ministry, to ensure disbursement of the counterpart funding to the licensed InfraCos upon attainment deployment milestones.  Commitment to ICT Innovations in Telecoms Industry The NCC under Danbatta has disbursed millions of naira, in grants, to sponsor innovation-oriented research projects in tertiary institutions and other research institutes aimed at driving technology innovations. In May 2019, it announced N40 million endowment funds for Bayero University, Kano (BUK) and the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO). In June 2019, it also presented the sum of N65 million to 11 universities in Nigeria for driving innovation, research and development. Through the funding, the benefitting tertiary institutions are expected to deliver research results and prototypes that are implementable, commercially-viable and capable of engendering innovation in different sectors of the economy.  Spectrum Auctions and Related Initiatives In the last four years, the NCC also achieved some broadband successes in the area of spectrum auctions such as auctioning of six slots of 2×5 megahertz (MHz) in the 2.6 gigahertz (GHz) Band; re-planning of the 800 MHz band for Long Term Evolution (LTE); licensing of two slots of 10 MHz each in the 700 MHz band; as well as the opening up of the E-band spectrum 70/80 GHz band for both last-mile and backhaul services. Other regulatory instruments by the Commission in this regards include the Spectrum Trading Framework, among others.  Growth in Telecom Investment Four years ago, the investment profile of the sector was around $38 billion. But today, it has grown to over $70 billion. Despite this, the telecom regulator has admitted the present investment in the sector is inadequate and will continue to pursue policies that would encourage more investment, stressing that Nigeria is one of the fastest growing telecoms markets in the world.  Restructuring of VAS Market The NCC also repositioned of the sector’s value–added services (VAS) segment, sanitizing it in 2019 and awarding VAS Aggregator licences to 10 companies to provide aggregator services. This will see the VAS market grow from current value of $200 million to over $500 million in the next few years.  Facilitating Telcos’ Listing on NSE The credit for the listings of MTN Nigeria on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) was due to pressure from the Danbatta-led Commission. The listings has served as tonic to other telcos to follow in the same direction such as the listing of Airtel.  Boosting FG’s Push for Improved Security The NCC has lived up to expectation in the last four years of Danbatta leadership through the implementation of the Emergency Communication centres (ECC) project and the continuous cleaning up of the Subscriber Identification Module (SIM) cards database in the country to ensure that trapping of criminal elements who use SIM cards to commit crimes. NCC has been working with the Office of the National security Advisers (ONSA) and other law enforcement agencies.  Positive response by State on RoW charges Through strategic collaboration with critical stakeholders and especially the Nigerian Governor Forum NFG), Danbatta, working with the Hon. Minister of Communications and Digital economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, is currently making in-road in the area of state government’s compliance with the N145 cost of Right of Way (RoW), as set by the National Economic Council (NEC) in 2013 as charges per linear meter of fibre. Close to six states in Nigeria have today reduced or totally waved RoW charges in their states while there are high expectations that others will follow suit. Danbatta has remarkably consolidated on the growth recorded by his predecessors through effective development and driving of initiatives needed to leapfrog the nation into a fully digital economy and there are high expectations that he is committed to do more with his formidable team of experts at NCC in the coming years.