The Management of Trademore International Holding Limited has notified the general public that some of its estates seized by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in Umuahia does not belong to the former governor of Abia state, Theodore Orji, who is being investigated by the anti-graft agency. On June 24, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seized a number of properties in the Abia state capital allegedly said to belong to former Abia governor, Sen. Theodore Orji. Among these properties include some housing estates belonging instead to Trademore International Holding Limited. According to the statement signed by the company’s legal representative, Nwoke John Kalu Esq., the anti-graft agency has, without due diligence, sealed the following estates: Trademore Luxury Apartments, Trademore Millennium Apartments, Trademore Estate, Ubani, and Trademore Ogwumabiri Event center located along Bank Road and Finbars Road, Umuahia, Abia state. According to the statement, the Trademore estates are owned by a private business man and have been wrongly marked as properties of Sen Theodore. Orji. The statement further clarified saying: “Trademore is registered with CAC and has been developing housing estates before Theodore Orji became a governor. The records are there to show. In Abuja for example, Trademore has developed not less than 3000 houses. The company has achieved similar feat Enugu, Badagry and Makurdi. So how come the one we built in Umuahia is now Theodore Orji’s property? “We are duly certified and have all legal documentation backing our investment in Abia state. Our buildings are all duly approved. “It is therefore unfortunate that the EFCC did not even care to invite us or tell us anything beyond what we read in the newspapers that our estates are traced to a former governor. “This is extremely unfair and there is no quicker way to kill businesses and investors. We support the fight against corruption based on the rule of law but not through the use of assumptions and outright seizure of projects and properties without prior notices.” Going further, the statement said: “We expected a thorough due diligence from an organization like EFCC before going ahead to mark our housing estates,” they said. The company detailed that they are a reputable establishment with many years of experience in the real estate sector and equally lamented that this can now affect the trust of subscribers that they have built steadfastly over the years. “This shouldn’t be happening because it sends a bad signal to those planning to invest in Nigeria. There should be an enabling environment for businesses like ours to operate without being caught in political games or be victims of inaccuracies,” the statement read. Trademore International Holding Limited, is, according to the statement owned by a successful developer whom has been able to make significant contribution to affordable housing in Nigeria with its estates in numerous states including Enugu, Benue, Imo, Nasarawa, Lagos as well as in Abuja. As a matter of fact, the company’s estates in Abuja, they say, currently accommodate over 30 members of staff of the EFCC, as well as a number of police officers. “Our company has no involvement in politics. We are mainly focused on helping the country address its housing needs. Our decision to invest in Abia state is only in a bid to not only contribute to the state’s economy and provide decent affordable housing for the people, but to also provide opportunities for employment,” the statement further revealed. The company therefore urge the EFCC to act as soon as stated to enable it return to normal business and should endeavor to also tender an apology forthwith, as their integrity and the interest of their clients remain paramount to them. “We give them 24 hours to open our sites and tender apology for this avoidable error. Failure to comply might trigger a legal action.” 