Some youth in Katsina State trooped out in large numbers to protest over the incessant killings and kidnaping of innocent citizens of the state. The protest is alleged to have been sponsored by a Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG), who recently announced plan to stage protest in Katsina yesterday, and other parts of the country, on the insecurity situation brought about by the bandits. The group had earlier issued statement on Monday, condemning the security situation, with a call on government to take drastic measures to end the problem. However early yesterday, policemen barricaded the main venue at Kofar Soro where they intended to start the protest, but that did not stop the protesters who still went ahead to protest from Kofar Durbi. They appeared in black shirts with writen incription ” Arewa is bleeding”, holding platcards in the hands with different inscriptions such as: “Our leaders have failed us; “Banditry and killings are our monsters not coronavirus,”; “Resign if you cannot protect us.” Information gathered by our correspond and grief before the Commissioner of Police, CP Sanusi Buba intervened and addressed them. Police spokeman, SP Gambol Isah shed light to what the CP said, “The CP appreciated them for coming out even though there was no any approval letter for the protest, but he was pleased with the way and
manner they protested peacefully. “He warned them not to allow miscreants to use the opportunity to cause havoc.” According to him,  the CP further reflected on the past insecurity issues of the nation where people can hardly go to churches or mosques freely because of bomb blasts and other forms of insecurity. He added that the present security situation in the state and country is surmountable as government is on top of the situation, working seriously to put an end to the menace .
Shehu Bawa Urges Decisive Action To End Banditry Former member of the House of Representatives , Shehu Bawa, has urged the federal government and governors of states facing rising insecurity to as a matter of exigency take decisive actions to end the cycle of killings which he said had devastated most of northern states. He expressed anger at the ease armed bandits invade settlements,  maim , kill, kidnap , loot and left unchallenged. He wondered why high numbers of Joint Security Forces could not be mobilized with equipment to embattled states at the mercy of bandits and criminals as they were deployed in thousands to states during election. “It is disheartening when helpless people including women and children who are not to be touched in war times are slaughtered , maimed , raped and kidnapped and elected officials go to sleep with their two eyes closed. “It has been reported that people in distress in the hands of these killers have called necessary security help but troops usually surface after bandits would have left after leaving behind sorrow and blood. “In  saner climes , those in charge would have abdicated their positions without being told to do so because , failure in leadership should not be condoned. ” It is obvious we are faced with dire situation that must be tackled urgently before the next round of carnage is reported. “The current set of elected and appointed officials has failed northern electorate in particular. I don’t think they have something tangible to offer despite their unending promises to safeguard lives of their subjects,” he lamented.