A Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt presided over by Hon. Justice Florence Fiberesima, has granted an exparte order restraining Chief Victor Giadom from parading himself as a member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Two stalwarts of the APC in Rivers State, Dele Moses and Azunda Awori, had through their counsel, F.C. Nwafor, filed application for a restraining order seeking to stop Giadom from parading himself as either the Acting National Chairman or Deputy National Secretary of the party. They insisted that Giadom had resigned his position as a member of the NWC of the APC to contest the 2019 election as deputy governor on the platform of the party. Joined in the suit were the APC and the Caretaker Committee Chairman of APC in the state, Rt. Hon. Igo Aguma. The application reads in part: “A declaration that sequel to the resignation of the 3rd defendant (Hon Victor Giadom) as Deputy National Secretary of the 1st Defendant (APC) in 2018, for the purposes of contesting in the 2019 general election as Deputy Governor of Rivers State, the 3rd defendant is no longer the Deputy National Secretary of the 1st Defendant. “A declaration that the 3rd Defendant (Hon Victor Giadom) is not a member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the 1st Defendant having resigned his membership of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the 1st Defendant for purposes of contesting in the 2019 general election as the Deputy Governor of Rivers State. “A declaration that the resignation of the 3rd Defendant (Hon Victor Giadom) as the Deputy National Secretary of the 1st Defendant in 2018 is valid and effective from 2018 till date. “A declaration that the 3rd Defendant (Hon Victor Giadom) is not the National Chairman, or Acting National Chairman, or Deputy National Secretary or otherwise howsoever a member of the National Working Committee of the 1st Defendant. “An order restraining the 3rd Defendant (Hon Victor Giadom) from issuing, signing or endorsing any document or correspondence to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) or any other body or institution in the capacity of the National Chairman or Acting National Chairman of the 1st Defendant or howsoever as an officer of the 1st Defendant. An order of perpetual injunction restraining the 1st, 2nd, 4th and 5th Defendants from recognizing or regarding the 3rd Defendant as either a member of the National Working Committee (NWC), the Deputy National Secretary, National Chairman or Acting National Chairman of the 1st Defendant.”