Contrary to the recent report by National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) that Sokoto state is amongst the poorest in Nigeria, governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has said, such report does not in any way reflect the reality of the state. Tambuwal who spoke on the issue Monday when he received a report titled: “Sokoto Development Plan: 2020-2025 at Government House, Sokoto wondered what parameter the NBS must have used to arrive at such defective conclusions. The governor, while insisting that Sokoto state is not poor hence it has so many programmes that has and is still making positive impact in the lives of the citizenry. A statement by the governor’s spokesperson, Muhammad Bello quoted Tambuwal as saying, “I do not intend to join issues with the NBS, but I appeal to them to come clear on their variable(s) and how they do their assessments of poor states in Nigeria; and then how they arrived at Sokoto being the poorest. “He know that, as a matter of fact, that something must be fundamentally defective and wrong with their processes and the outcome of those processes,” Tambuwal emphasized. “The fact of the matter, the governor explained is when you look at the programs we are implementing in Sokoto state, they are people-friendly. They are promoting and supporting the vulnerable, the poorest of the poor.” Giving reference to some of the programmes embarked on by his government to affect lives of the populace, Tambuwal said, “Even what we are doing through Zakkat and Waqf Commission (SOZECOM) alone, I am not aware that there is any state that is doing as much”. Tambuwal further divulged that his administration has spent N4 billion on the upliftment of the businesses of over 200 small scale traders across the 23 local government areas of the state. This is in addition to the N258.8 million spent this year on the provision of relief material for orphans and the needy by SOZECOM, which in the preceding year spent N237.9 million on the same venture. “Not only that, the enabling increase in ease of doing business and a lot of things that this administration has done to actually improve the lives and well-being of the citizens of the state,” the governor added, pointing out that: “time shall tell.” The governor also hinted that the state government shall monitor the NBS and see what it will come up with in its next report to know whether they will actually reflect the true position of Sokoto state in Nigeria in terms of rating of poor states. “We believe that we are not (poor) and in due course it would unfold,” the governor assured. Recall that the NBS in it’s April 2020 report of Nigerian Living Standards Survey (NLSS) covering 2019  said  9 of top 10 poorest states in Nigeria are from the northern region with Sokoto, Taraba and Jigawa being the poorest. 