Nearly 40 Nigerians living in the diaspora have died as a result of complications from COVID-19, the federal government hinted yesterday. Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, stated this when she appeared on Channels Television’s special COVID-19 programme. Explaining some of the efforts of government regarding the welfare of Nigerians outside the country, she however noted that the government is in touch with Nigerians in diaspora in various parts of the world even as efforts are on to the evacuate them. Dabiri-Erewa also noted that “Nigerians in the diaspora are coming together to raise funds to help frontline workers in Nigeria and very soon, this initiative by the Nigerians in the diaspora will be presented to the PTF”. As for evacuations, the NIDCOM boss said about 18 more Nigerians are expected to return from France over the weekend. “As I speak to you, we are expecting about 18 from France and the France case is a chartered plane arranged by the mission and that will be the first time; apart from those from Lebanon (who supported us), where they’ll actually be coming in without paying anything so thanks to our ambassador in France, about 18 passengers from Europe, some from the Netherlands, Germany, Spain got together and they’ll be coming in today without actually paying anything and that I think is most commendable on her part”. Asked about the recent attack by Nigerians on the Nigerian embassy in Indonesia, and if she had gotten fillers prior to the incident on the treatment of Nigerians in the Asian country, Dabiri-Erewa responded saying: “no, none at all and that’s why that video was a surprise”. According to her, perhaps there had been complaints but they were only being channelled to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. “Maybe they’ve had issues with the mission and were talking to the minister, I don’t know, but all I know is, in Indonesia, we have quite a number of people in prison for drugs”. The NIDCOM boss further said the only issue that she was aware of was the negotiations for persons (Nigerians) caught in drug-related offences not to be given capital punishment, as stipulated by the Indonesian government. “In Indonesia, the penalty for drugs is death. So that’s the case we are dealing with…appealing to them not to kill them but they said that is their law but (asides that) there hasn’t been any particular contact with the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission about problems in Indonesia. Dabiri-Erewa, however, noted that regardless of the issues on the ground, Nigerians destroying property in Indonesia isn’t justified.  Over $30bn Needed To Develop COVID-19 Tests, Treatments, Vaccines – WHO Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation disclosed yesterday that a global initiative to speed up the development and production of COVID-19 tests, vaccines and treatments will require more than $30 billion over the next year. Providing details of the so-called ACT accelerator, launched in April and aimed at pooling international resources to combat the pandemic, WHO said, “The costed plans presented today call for $31.3 billion in funding”. So far, $3.4 billion of that had been pledged, the UN health agency said, pointing out that an additional $27.9 billion was needed over the next 12 months, including nearly $14 billion to cover immediate needs. The announcement came ahead of a major pledging event in Brussels in support of the ACT accelerator, set to take place on Saturday. “This is an investment worth making,” Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a special envoy for the ACT accelerator, told a virtual briefing. “If we don’t rally now, the human costs and the economic pain will deepen,” she said. “Though these numbers sound big, they are not when we think of the alternative. If we spend billions now, we will be able to avoid spending trillions later. “The time to act is now, and the way to act is together,” the former Nigerian finance minister said, stressing the need for equal access for all to any safe and effective vaccines and treatments developed. Her comments came as the world counts nearly 490,000 deaths from COVID-19 and over 9.6 million cases since the new coronavirus emerged in China late last year, according to an AFP tally from official sources. “It’s clear that to bring COVID-19 under control, and to save lives, we need effective vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics, in unprecedented quantities and at unprecedented speed,” WHO’s chief, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, told the briefing. He stressed though that a core principle of the initiative is to ensure equal access for all. “Vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics are vital tools,” he said. “But to be truly effective they must be administered with another essential ingredient, which is solidarity.” The funds requested should make it possible to deliver 500 million tests and 245 million courses of treatment to low and middle-income countries by mid-2021. They also aim to deliver two billion vaccine doses by the end of next year. Soumya Swaminathan, the WHO’s chief scientist, pointed out during a separate briefing on the vaccine pillar of the project, known as COVAX, that antibody studies indicate that “a large, large proportion of the world’s population, 90 percent, continues to be susceptible.” “The best bet we have really if we are going to end it… is to have a vaccine as soon as possible.” There are currently around 220 vaccine candidates, with 15 in clinical trials, and experts are hoping a handful of them will prove successful, Seth Berkley, head of the Gavi Vaccine Alliance, told reporters yesterday. The problem is that investing in vaccine development can be risky, since 80 percent of vaccines in early stage development fail before reaching clinical trials. And since there will be a need to produce billions of doses quickly, manufacturing capabilities need to be scaled up before it is even clear whether a candidate will be successful. To address this obstacle, COVAX is aimed at pooling financial and scientific resources, making it possible to hedge the risk of backing an unsuccessful candidate, and ensuring that lower-income countries receive equal access to successful vaccines. “The critical issue (is) speed. If we lose a month now, that could mean 200 million fewer doses in 2021,” Berkley noted. Even producing two billion vaccine doses by the end of 2021 will be far from enough to vaccinate everyone. Experts therefore insist on the need to guarantee that vulnerable groups and health workers worldwide receive the first jabs. “Having a subset of populations of high risk vaccinated around the world is the best way to control the pandemic,” Berkley said.