The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has expressed concern over the slow progress by African countries in the fight against child labour, saying with the equivalent of 72 million in child labour, Africa has the highest prevalence in both absolute numbers and percentage. The ILO director-general, Guy Ryder, in a statement to commemorate this year’s World Day against Child Labour, said with a significant loss of income by parents, absence of even basic social protection and increasing poverty as a result of the COVID-19 crisis, many could resort to child labour. The ILO sad millions more children risk being pushed into child labour as a result of the COVID-19 crisis, which could lead to the first rise in child labour after 20 years of progress. He said globally, about 152 million children between 5 and 17 years are victims of child labour. 73 million of them are involved in hazardous child labour, which is work that places their health, safety and development at considerable risk. Children already in child labour may be working longer hours or under worsening conditions, the report says. More of them may be forced into the worst forms of labour, which causes significant harm to their health and safety. “As the pandemic wreaks havoc on family incomes, without support, many could resort to child labour,” said ILO director general, Guy Ryder, adding that social protection is vital in times of crisis, as it provides assistance to those who are most vulnerable; He further said: “Integrating child labour concerns across broader policies for education, social protection, justice, labour markets, and international human and labour rights make a critical difference.” Also, according to a study by the ILO and UNICEF, evidence is gradually mounting that child labour is rising as schools close during the pandemic, stressing that temporary school closures are currently affecting more than 1 billion learners in over 130 countries, and even when classes restart, some parents may no longer be able to afford to send their children to school. The study proposes a number of measures to counter the threat of increased child labour, including more comprehensive social protection, easier access to credit for poor households, the promotion of decent work for adults, measures to get children back into school, including the elimination of school fees, and more resources for labour inspections and law enforcement.   