The textile industry has been a great concern to the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, as the sector is yet to revive in spite of a series of interventions. At the moment, textile companies across the country, including Kaduna, Kano, and Aba, among others, are now in a moribund state, apparently crippled by high electricity tariff, high interest rate and multiple taxation. Worried about the state of the sector, the federal government had disclosed in different fora that it would give priority to the development of the textile industry to move the country from being an importer to exporter of finished clothing products. A worker in the textile industry who simply gave his name as Danladi said the inconsistency in government policies and the lack of political will has further contributed to the continued closure of most of the industries. Another affected worker said the closure of the industries with no alternatives led to an increase in crime, stressing that some of the workers who lost their jobs as a result of nothing to do to survive may have taken to social vices as a means of survival. For over a quarter of a decade, Aba Textile Mill Ltd has been lying waste. When LEADERSHIP Sunday visited the mill located at Aba Industrial Estate, popularly called Abatex, the premises was under lock and key and now overgrown by weeds and trees. The mill was one of the legacies of the defunct Eastern Region under the late Dr. Michael Okpara as premier. Until the outbreak of the 1967-70  civil war in the country and immediately after it, the mill remained one of the major and largest employers of labour in the town, running three shifts daily. Its products which included wrappers and cotton material for school uniforms and other purposes found a ready market across the region, the South-South zone, and some parts of Western Cameroon. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that at the inception of the administration of Sen Orji Uzor Kalu, the mill was concessioned to Churchgate Group. The general expectation was that the Indian company was coming to resuscitate the multimillion naira Company to create employment for the teeming unemployed youths. But the hope was dashed. A reliable source in the State Ministry of Trade and Commerce, who pleaded anonymity, said “the Indians vandalized the machinery and other valuables in the premises and turned the place into warehouses.” Explaining that the concessionaire quietly took their leave thereafter, he added that since then, the place had been lying fallow and providing abode for miscreants and criminals. But the absence of the mill has not stopped the town from being one of the major fabric depots and the capital of fashion designing and garment industry in Nigeria, and some of the neighbouring countries. A major fabric dealer along Ehi Road, Chief Duke Madumere, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the majority of the fabrics are either imported as suiting, plain materials, lace, and bales (off-cuts) from Europe or China. An ex-banker, Samson Ndulaka, said after his retrenchment, he went into the fashion business sourcing the materials from Aba. “I have outlets in Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja. Soon I will go beyond the country,” he said. Similarly, Alhaji Usman Maiyadi and Haruna Nafada from Kogi and Gombe states respectively, said for over ten years Aba has been their major source of foreign materials at very low prices. Stakeholders in the textile industry argue that Nigeria’s quest for sustainable economic development and diversification would not take place if concerted attention is not paid to catalyse and revitalize a critical labour intensive and revenue yielding industry like the textile sector of the economy. The Kano State secretary of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Alhaji Ahmed Tijjani has attributed the challenges facing textile industries in the state to smuggling of textile material and high cost of diesel among others. He said textile and garment are one of the three pillars that are very crucial to the development of the nation and would reduce the issue of unemployment substantially as it is the core of the agro-allied industry. In an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP Sunday in Kano, the Kano secretary of MAN identified lack of electricity, inconsistent and continuous increase in electricity tariff, high interest on commercial bank loans and multiple taxation, among others, as some of the major challenges facing the textile companies in the country. “Only three functional textile companies among which include African Textile, Angel Spinnings, and Funtua Textile are in partial production in the state; the remaining ones have since closed down. Other textile companies such as Gaskiya Textile, Dangote Textile and Universal Textile have since closed shop due to the above-enumerated reasons,’’ he said. Tijjani said the ailing companies were unable to assess the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) intervention funds due to their non-functional status and partial operations. He acknowledged that the CBN governor, Mr Godwin Emiefele, had invited them to meet with him several times but the sector had still not picked up. According to him, “It is true that the CBN governor invited us to a meeting with him to help fashion out a way forward because he realised that the textile industries are the major employers of labour,  hence the need to be assisted. “Our main focus was not on the intervention funds, but we advised that the government should work out modalities to curb the menace of smuggling and make sure that textile materials coming into the country must pay high duty rates. “These are some of the pieces of advice we gave the CBN governor during such meetings and later the bank laid emphasis on Order Three that gave the local textile manufacturers the legal framework to be producing military and paramilitary uniforms.’’ Interestingly, the MAN scribe said the supply is going to be a continuous process covering the period of five years, adding that the initiative would help most of the moribund textile industries to bounce back to life soonest. According to him, the CBN had already provided the cotton for ginners to mass produce them. “We are done with the cotton lint on the one hand since we have them in stock,” he said. Commenting on the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on the textile industries, the vice chairman of Sharada, Challawa Branch of Textile Industries and Special Duties manager of African Textile, Alhaji Mohammed Adamu, said the coronavirus had dealt a blow to most of the textile companies since its inception. “Since the coming of the pandemic, everything was brought to a standstill, making the textile companies incur losses in millions. As a result of COVID-19, most of the factories were closed down until when the state relaxed the lockdown order and paved the way for some companies to go on partial production,” he said. The MAN secretary, however, commended the CBN governor for his patriotism and commitment to accomplish the vision and mission of President Buhari’s policy on textile industries.  Experts, Stakeholders Applaud PMB Over Moves To Revamp Industry Stakeholders in the textile industry have commended the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration in changing the narrative of the textile sector from that of the closure of factories to a bold revival effort that will return the industry to the good old days. The president, National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN), John Adaji, told LEADERSHIP Sunday in Lagos that the Buhari administration was changing the narrative. Adaji said, “In July 2019, the leadership of the Union paid a historic courtesy visit to the President where he reiterated the commitment of the federal government to ensure the revival of the cotton, textile and garment sector. He, however, noted that the COVID-19 pandemic had constituted a serious setback to the industry’s revival effort. He said, “Prior to the pandemic, the industry was on the part of recovery following the series of interventions by the federal government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) within the framework of the Cotton Textile and Garment (CTG) policy. “The ban on social activities, inter-state movement, closure of markets across the country amongst other measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 continue to have adverse effects on the industry,” he further noted, adding that the revival of the textile industry required a holistic approach. “Beyond funding, other critical challenges must be addressed,” he said, pointing out that smuggling and counterfeiting of textile products must be stopped. The Custom Service, he said, has recorded some achievements in combating smuggling, and more should be done as it affects smuggled textile products. He pointed out that there can never be a sustainable revival of the textile industry without a constant supply of electricity and conscious effort must be made to promote patronage of made in Nigeria textiles. “We must learn to produce what we consume and consume what we produce,” he stated. Speaking on other factors, he said, “In the light of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), the federal government must insist on fair trade to protect the current and future jobs in the industry, attract new investment, grow local manufacturing and combat smuggling. “The stakeholders (employers and employees) should be committed to the survival of the industry and should collaborate to enhance the productivity of the industry in terms of quality and quantity, and for the textile industry to be competitive, textile, garment workers must be trained and retrained particularly in the light of the new challenges.” On his part, the president of the Nigerian Textiles Manufacturers Association (NTMA), Mr. Folorunsho Daniyan said that the CBN had been doing quite a lot to support the textile sector and that the credit goes to the present government in particular as it is taking up measures to revive the textile industry. He stated that the impact of the CBN on various interventions would have been more accessible if the COVID-19 pandemic had not come to stop the normal way of life. “Like Oliver Twist, we can only ask the government to please not be tired of our request and see if they can still do more because we do not want to lay off any of our staff. We want to hold them, we are a major employer of labour,” he added. Daniyan recalled that the closure of the border before the coming of  COVID-19 had impacted positively on the sector as smuggling reduced. He added that if the federal government maintains the current position for the sector’s revival and the CBN continues to support cotton growers all over the nation, there will be an improvement in the cotton production through the CBN anchor borrower’s programme. His words: “From all indications, the full revival of the sector certainly will be good for the country and the economy when the fruits of the Buhari administration’s efforts in the sector begin to yield fruits. On his part, the acting national secretary of the National Union of Textiles, Garment Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN), Comrade Ali Baba said that the major challenges facing the textile industries are the exorbitant power tariffs and lack of government patronage of finished goods, in addition to smuggling of foreign textile materials. “What the government needs to do, which we have written about, is containing smuggling of textile materials, provision of adequate power with minimal rate and increase patronage of finished goods by the government.” He said although the governments assisted with some loan facilities, due to lack of patronage, the goods are there but no requisite market. He stated: “No matter what, giving big money or terms of loan or assistance, these products are manufactured and no market, you have done nothing to them, so the government must find a way of patronizing these products. The money was given, there is a lot of assistance from the federal government but lack of patronage is a major challenge. “The COVID-19 pandemic has greatly affected the textile industries because our products strive most during festive periods like burial, church activities, Sallah, etc, but the restrictions and lockdown affected us negatively.”