The Senate yesterday passed into law the sum of N10.805trillion as the revised budget for the 2020 fiscal year. Also, the red chamber, confirmed President Muhammadu Buhari’s nominee, Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem as the president of the Court of Appeal. Dongban-Mensem’s confirmation followed consideration of the report of the Senate Committee on a Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters. Chairman of the Committee, Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele (APC, Ekiti Central) while reading the report of the committee said that the nominee “has the experience, comportment, exposure and posses the requisite leadership qualities of a Judicial Officer to effectively run the Court of Appeal.” The passing of the budget came a day after the House of Representatives passed the amended Appropriations Bill, 2020 into law. The decision followed the consideration of a report of the Senate Standing Committee on Appropriations on the Appropriation Act (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Of the approved sum of N10,805,544,664,642 to be issued from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, N422,775,979,362 is for statutory transfers; N2,951,710,000,000 is for debt servicing; N4,942,269,251,934 is for recurrent (nondebt) expenditure; and N2,488,789,433,344 is for contribution to the development fund for capital expenditure. Also, N500billion is earmarked as intervention fund for COVID-19 and another N186billion for the health sector. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that the passage of the revised budget suffered a setback in the Senate on Tuesday due to some discrepancies discovered by the Appropriations Committee. However, the proposed amended budget was passed yesterday after the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, Senator Jibrin Barau (APC, Kano) presented the report of his committee at plenary. … Confirms 42 Ambassadorial Nominees. The Senate yesterday confirmed the appointment of 42 career Ambassadorial nominees forwarded to it by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Red Chamber also confirmed the nomination of James Kolo as Commissioner in the Federal Character Commission, representing Kwara State. The Confirmation of the nominees was sequel to the consideration of the reports of the Senate Committees on Foreign Affairs; and Federal Character and Inter-Governmental Affairs. Recall that President Buhari had in a letter dated May 6, 2020, said the appointment of the nominees was in accordance to section 171 (1),(2)(c) and subsection (4) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended. The Ambassadors-designate confirmed by the Senate are: C.O Nwachukwu, Abia; A. Kafas, Adamawa; R. U. Brown, Akwa-Ibom; G. A. Odudigbo, Anambra; O. C. Onowu, Anambra; Y. S. Suleiman, Bauchi; E S. Agbana, Bayelsa; B. B. M. Okoyen Bayelsa; G. M. Okoko Benue; A. M. Garba, Borno; M. l. Bashir, Bomo; M. O. Abam, Cross River; A. E. Allotey, Cross River; G. E. Edokpa, Edo; and A. N. Madubuike, Enugu. Others are: Adamu Lamuwa, Gombe; Mr. Innocent A. lwejuo, lmo; M. S. Abubakar, Jigawa; Y. A. Ahmed, Jigawa; S. D. Umar, Kaduna; A. Sule, Kano; G. Y. Hamza, Kano; N. Rimi, Katsina; L S. Ahmed-Remawa, Katsina; M. Manu, Kebbi; l. R. Ocheni, Kogi; l. A. Yusuf, Kogi; M. Abdulraheem, Kwara; Mrs. W. A. Adedeji, Lagos; and A. U. Ogah, Nasarawa. Also among career Ambassadors-designate confirmed are: A. A. Musa, Niger; N. A. Kolo, Niger; S. O. Olaniyan, Ogun; A. R. Adejola, Ogun, E. Awe Ondo; O. Aluko, Osun; I. A. Alatishe, Osun; V. A. Adeleke, Oyo; M. S. Adamu, Plateau; l. N. Charles, Rivers; Z M. lfu, Taraba; and B. B. Hamman, Yobe. Meanwhile, the Senate has adjourned plenary till Tuesday, June 23, 2020. Lawan, Gbajabiamila To Meet PMB Against the backdrop of rising spate of insecurity in the country, President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, will meet with President Muhammadu Buhari, to discuss security challenges arising from the activities of Boko Haram insurgents and bandits in some parts of the country. The resolution was reached after the Senate considered a motion on the resurgence of killings in Borno North by Boko Haram terrorists. The motion was sponsored by Senator Abubakar Kyari (APC, Borno North), and co-sponsored by Senators Kashim Shettima (APC, Borno Central) and Ali Ndume (APC, Borno South). Kyari while relying on order 42 and 52 of the Senate standing rules, lamented the killing of 90 persons, which included women and children, on Tuesday, June 9, 2020 by Boko Haram insurgents following an attack on Foduma Kolum village of Gubio local government area of the state. Senate Threatens Warrant Of Arrest On Ministers The Senate Committee on Public Accounts has vowed to issue a warrant of arrest against heads of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs).