…Alleges Obaseki Funded PDP Candidates Factional Chairman of Edo All Progressive Congress, APC, Wednesday frowned at the judgment of an Abuja Appeal Court which suspended from office the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The party also said the resignation of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy Philip Shaibu from the APC vindicated their earlier position that he (Obaseki) worked against the APC by “funding candidates of the opposition party in the house of assembly election in the state. The party added that the “seamless manner of his assimilation and the open arms that have been extended to him by the leadership of the opposition is in appreciation of his investment in their political fortunes. The factional Chairman, Col David Imuse, (retired), while addressing newsmen in Benin City, Edo state, on the political development in the state however urged party members to remain calm and keep faith with the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. He said: “The announcement of Godwin Obaseki and his deputy Philip Shaibu resigned their membership of the APC did not come to us as surprise to discerning members of our party. There is credible and irrefutable evidence that Obaseki worked against the APC by funding candidate of the party in the house of assembly”. “Obaseki’s sins are legion. He has kept 14 members-elect of the house of assembly out; he funded the long drawn but aborted attempt to unseat the national chairman. This drama is still playing out in the court as we speak, and was reflected in the Appeal court ruling that was delivered.” “It is our carefully considered opinion that the Appeal court misdirected itself. By the tone and the wordings of the judgment, one was left wondering if the Appeal court has become a court of first instance. “The foundation of the initial action at the Federal High Court, Abuja was a resolution by 7 of the 25-member ward Executive committee. Politics is a game of numbers and 7 cannot purport at act on behalf of 25 and claim validity of their action”. Several calls put across to the Special Adviser on Media and Communication strategy, to Governor Godwin Obaseki, Mr Crusoe Osagie, were unanswered at the time of filing in the report. 