Following the news of resignation of Governor Godwin Obaseki from APC due to his disqualification from contesting the party primary election under APC, the state factional chairman of APC, Mr. Anselm Ojezua said he will not move with the governor. This is coming as the factional Chairman of the APC loyal to the APC national Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Col David Imuse, on Tuesday said they are in joyous mood and described the governor exit as “good riddance to bad rubbish” Ojezua, in a reaction via telephone chat, said he was elected as chairman of APC with a four-year mandate which expires by 2022. According to him, “I won’t move. As you can see, I still have my mandate as the elected party chairman of APC in Edo State which expires by 2020 and I intend to complete that mandate.” Imuse on his part said: “It is a highly welcome development, in-fact it is much expected and it is a good riddance to bad rubbish. The party remains the party, we are preparing for our party primaries so by Monday all of you should be prepared to witness the direct primaries which is going to be a seamless operation because the major pollutant and irritant in our party has filtered himself out so the party is in a joyous mood, I believe you can feel it from my voice. “His going to another party affecting the chances of the APC membership of political parties is voluntary so he can go to anywhere he likes, it is his constitutional right, it has no effect on APC.” Meanwhile, at the anti-Obaseki’s state party’s secretariat’s office located along airport road workers and party faithful danced and jubilated following the resignation of Obaseki from the party. An APC, member Osaro Idemudia said “Obaseki had in recent times boasted that he will not leave the APC for outsider and promised to fight to the end. His sudden reverse and resignation from the party is welcomed” Also, the Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki, on political matters, Chief Oasro Idah, said Obaseki resignation was a response to the injustice meted on him by the APC. “His followers asked him to leave the party, he had to go. We have not decided which party for now but in the next few days the public will know.” 