Cross River State Chairman Anti-Tax Agency, Bishop Emmah Isong has identified  illegal taxation as one of the vices that is put economy of the state on the wheel. He said that if there was anything which has been taken the state economy of the state anticlockwise is illegal taxation. Isong made the assertion in Calabar during an Interface meeting with the Cross River State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). The anti-tax agency chairman stressed that this informed the decision of the governor of the State Prof Ben Ayade in setting up the Agency. The anti-tax agency boss maintained that the Agency is soliciting for partnership with the Christian body to help curb the menace and reverse the ugly trend in the state. In his words Ayade’s aide said, “We are here to introduce ourselves to you, we need your prayers and support. “Illegal taxation is killing our people and the governor wept while setting the agency up to underscore the suffering his people are going through. “We need CAN to help us in creating awareness and sensitization as well as cooperation in terms of Anti-Tax brigades and Marshals that will be engaged”. Isong stressed that the agency has gone far in its task by requesting the Cross River State Assembly to broaden the 2015 Tax Exemption Law of the state adding that the agency is seeking the consent of the judiciary in setting up mobile courts and approval for this has been granted in principle by the Chief Judge. Isong averred that that the agency’s mission is to build a better future for the people of the state in line with the governor’s vision. In his remarks, Chairman of CAN in Cross River State, Amb. Okon Bassey Ekpenyong, stated that the Christian body will partner with the agency to succeed. The CAN chairman said, “We will always work together and continuously Interface with the Agency to guarantee its success. “So many companies have left the state due to taxation and with the calibre of people who leading the Agency, I am confident of your success”, he said