Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, on Saturday, flagged off the upgrade of the headquarters of the Oyo State Agriculture Development Programme (OYSADEP), Saki, which will now house the state’s Agribusiness development agency, OYSADA. He stated that through the renovation and expansion of the existing facilities, the state was taking the step to reposition Oke Ogun as not just the food basket of Oyo State, but, also, as the seat of the state’s agribusiness drive, which will make the economic benefits of the engagement accrue to the zone. Governor Makinde, who stated that the state was starting another journey in the fulfillment of another campaign promise to expand the economy through agribusiness and agriculture, said that having mapped out its strategies, it was time for implementation. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, indicated that the governor also visited the ongoing 200-bed Civid-19 isolation and treatment centre in Saki, where he stated that once COVID-19 pandemic is over, the facility would become useful to Saki and its environs. He said: “Today, I am flagging off the renovation and expansion of this facility, which used to belong to OYSADEP. This facility has been left in this place for so long. When I came here for a campaign in 2015, this facility was like this. When I came here in 2019 too, it looked the same and nothing has changed. “But within six months to this time, we’ll effect changes in the facility. In fact, an administration moved the activities from here to Ibadan for what they called ‘administrative convenience’. “So, back in November 2019, during my budget presentation, I thought about giving the directive that the OYSADEP offices be, once again, relocated to Saki. “The decision to move it back to Saki is very strategic, because Oke-Ogun is the food basket of Oyo State and it is only commonsensical to know that any activity that has to do with the oversight of agriculture should be domiciled here. “After the directive was given, there have been some new developments in the Oyo State agricultural space. Take for example, in April 2020, we signed the Oyo State Agribusiness Development Agency (OYSADA) Bill, into law and the agency effectively replaced the Oyo State Agricultural Development Programme of 1989.”