The federal government has said that the Multi-Sectoral Crisis Recovery Project (MCRP) for Northeastern Nigeria ‘’implementation model’’ has proven to be successful in putting the region on the path to recovery and stability. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq who disclosed this at the  inauguration of the National Steering Committee for the Restructured MCRP and the Lake Chad Region Recovery and Development Project (PROLAC) in Abuja yesterday said initially a $200 million project, which commenced 16 February, 2018, achieved significant progress asevidenced by the midterm report of the World Bank in November 2019. Hajia Farouq said the success recorded by the project has created the basis for the federal government to request for Nigeria to be includedin the IDA financed Lake Chad Region Recovery and Development Project (PROLAC), through additional financing for the MCRP to address the gap of unmet needs of the participating States of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe. Speaking earlier, the national coordinator, MCRP, Mohammed Danjuma, said the MCRP PROLAC AF was approved by the World Bank Board on the 26 May, 2020 as additional financing for MCRP to the tune of $176 Million bringing the project portfolio to $376 million. He decried that the northeast region has been ravaged by theactivities of Boko Haram. ‘’Most of the economic indicators have been in the negative more to talk of now that another pandemic, COVID-19, has exacerbated,’’ he said. He explained that with the development Nigeria now joins Cameroon, Chad, and Niger Republic in the implementation of the project, adding that the project will complement existing state, national, and regional strategies, including the AU-LCBC Lake Chad Regional Stabilization Strategy. Danjuma stressed that he is optimistic that the project will meet its objectives. ‘’I am optimistic that the project will meet its objectives. So far it has another three years for execution. We are optimistic. The steering committee will provide an oversight function for the project as you are aware. ‘’It is a loan that is going to be given to the state as grant and it requires strong oversight and an all-inclusive stakeholder steering committee that will ensure that there is compliance in implementation,’’ he said.