Leading senatorial aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Cross River north senatorial district, Dr Stephen Odey has said he was acquainted with the challenges of the district and determined to fix youth unemployment if elected. Odey stated this while addressing supporters during an interactive meeting in Abuja. According to him, I have lived in the district all my life and understands the aspirations and pains of the people. It would be recalled that the senatorial seat became vacant following the death of the late Sen Rose Oko, who represented the district but passed away in London after a brief illness. Odey said that he was better qualified to represent the district at the Senate based on his wealth of experience and track records. He said, “I have worked with Governor Ben Ayade for four years at the Senate, I participated in drafting some of the motions and bills. I think he has one of the highest Bill’s when he was there. “All his constituency projects, I was the one following it up, as a man who already knows the road, do you think I am going to learn anything? “That is why I am urging you to support me you won’t have difficulties in accessing the National Assembly. The time has come when somebody will give you a recommendation letter and will not mind to drive down to that minister’s office.” Speaking further, he said, “I am a practical man, I am not a story teller, give me one year and you will see that the record will never be the same. I am from Yala Local Government Area, from a minority group but with a majority brain; the reason is this, I have taken the pains to look at the problems bedeviling our people. “I grew up in the village, I schooled in the village up to my PhD level and my Law Degree, all in the village, I will go to school and come back to the village. I know the problems of the people, I live among them, I know what it takes to sell groundnut, Garri, upland rice and all that to train us, so I know the pains. “If there is anything that prompted me to go to school to attain the level of education I have, it is because of the background I came from.” He also added that his office will be wide open for people from his senatorial district, Cross River State and non-Cross Riverians.