TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes on the upsurge of rape in the country and the need to tackle the hydra-headed menace headlong Cases of rape have continued to rise steeply in Nigeria. The resurgence of rape cases in the country has been of major concern to the federal government, CSOs, human rights activists and other critical stakeholders in the country. Almost every day, a new rape case is reported on the dailies. This sad situation is surprising because, for a country that is known for its religiosity, one would expect that sexual escapades will be on a low level. Although psychologists opined that survivors of rape are more likely to attempt or commit suicide, in Nigeria, the new trend is killing victims in cold blood after a traumatic rape incident. Some weeks ago, Miss Uwaila Omozuwa, a 100-level student of the University of Benin, was raped and murdered at the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Miracle Sanctuary Mega Parish, Edo Province 10, Ikpoba Hill area of Benin City. Barely a week after the incident, unknown men reportedly raped and killed an 18-year-old student of the Federal College of Animal and Production Technology Moore Plantation, Apata, Ibadan, Oyo State. Meanwhile, a 25-year-old man, Aminu Bala, also allegedly raped and killed his elder brother’s wife in Gusau, Zamfara State. The State Police command’s spokesperson, Mohammed Shehu, while parading Aminu Bala, said he had already confessed to the crime. Also, the Jigawa State Police Command said it had arrested 11 men for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl in the state. This is just as seven boys allegedly gang-raped a 22-year-old physical challenged woman in Sokoto State. Between January and May this year, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, disclosed that the police arrested 799 rape suspects in 717 incidents, stressing that the authorities are determined to tame rape cases across the country. The IGP, who spoke with journalists after a meeting with President Mohammadu Buhari, disclosed that 631 of the cases had been concluded and charged to court, while 52 were still being investigated. Adamu, however, attributed the surge in rape cases and other gender-based violence to the COVID-19 restrictions, insisting that the Nigerian police is determined to partner with other security agencies and non-governmental organisations to end the menace. While restating that government was poised to curtail the menace, he urged Nigerians to report sex-related offenses to law enforcement agents, noting that keeping silent would not augur well, as perpetrators would continue committing the crime. Rape is a criminal offence. The Criminal Code which is applicable in all the Southern States in (Section 357) of Criminal Code Act, Law of Federation of Nigeria 1990 CAP77 states that “rape is when any person has sexual intercourse with a woman or girl, without her consent, or incorrectly obtained consent. Consent can be incorrectly obtained where it is obtained by force/threat/intimidation, by means of false and fraudulent representation as to the nature of the act, by a person impersonating a married woman’s husband in order to have sex. Under this law, sexual intercourse with underage girls or people with the unsound mind is the offence of defilement, and so technically a person could be charged for rape and defilement.” It can be noted here that any person male or female who through tricks, threat, or force engages in sexual intercourse with a girl or a woman, raped the victim. While the Penal Code is applicable in all the Northern States; Under the Penal Code of Nigeria (Section 282), “A man is said to commit rape who has sexual intercourse with a woman in any of the following circumstances: against her will; without her consent; with her consent, when the consent is obtained by putting her in fear of death or of hurt.” Under the Criminal Laws of Lagos State (Section 258) “Any man who has unlawful sexual intercourse with a woman or girl without her consent, is guilty of the offence of rape. What many people consider as a loophole in this law is that it explicitly states that sexual intercourse by a man with his wife cannot be unlawful, and therefore a man cannot rape his wife. Also, the Child Rights Acts provides that sex with a child is rape, and anyone who has sexual intercourse with a child is liable to imprisonment for life upon conviction. It is only applicable in states that have domesticated it. Under the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act (Section 1) “A person commits the offence of rape if he or she intentionally penetrates the vagina, anus or mouth of another person with any other part of his/her body or anything else without consent, or the consent is obtained by force.” However, the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act (VAPP Act) a federal law that has only been domesticated in Lagos, Anambra, Ebonyi and Oyo State. At the moment VAPP Act seems to be the only law that conforms with modern-day realities because it considers male and female sex offenders and gang rape. However, only four states have domesticated the law apart from the FCT. Last Thursday, the Adamawa State Police Command confirmed the story of how eight men raped a woman at the state capital, Yola. The woman was said to have been deceived into the men’s house by her own friend, who is now being held as the sole female member of a 9-man rape gang. A female suspect, 30-year-old Zainab Jafaru, was part of the 9-member rape gang. The Adamawa State Police spokesman, Suleiman Nguroje, confirmed that the 33-year-old victim was raped by the eight men one by one after her friend; 30-year-old Zainab Jafaru took her to the men and disappeared. According to the police, “The incident happened on 12/6/2020 when the 5th Suspect Zainab Jafaru, deceived the complainant to accompany her to a certain place to meet her boyfriend. “Upon arrival, Zainab’s boyfriend (now on the run), invited his gang, who forcefully had sexual intercourse with the complainant one after another.”  Perpetrators of rape should face the full wrath of the law – Ogiator The founder, Juli Education Foundation, Joy Ogiator, has urged the Nigerian Police to ensure that the arrested 799 rape suspects in 717 incidents of rape between January and May are investigated to ensure that the perpetrators are made to face the full wrath of the law. Ogiator while speaking to LEADERSHIP Weekend said it is only logical that the police force becomes the protector and gives the girl child safety. She also stressed that the police should also investigate all other cases of rape not covered between the period. She said: “The girl child shouldn’t be scared when they see a police uniform, they shouldn’t have to run for their lives when a young man passes by them at any time of the day. Girls and women should be protected and given a right to live at any cost.’’ Ogiator said cases of rape and sexual abuse mainly targeted at women and minors, seemed to be on the increase. ‘’Since families of the victims have to cough out huge sums of money for test kits and to chase the case up till court, they are easily burned out and, in most cases, would discontinue the case. Some would seek an out of court settlement. So how can we fight and put a stop to these evil cultures if the end result still ensures the perpetrators have their freedom and aren’t threatened by any form of punishment?’’ she asked.  FIDA urges rape victims to get primary evidence in hospital, report case to police The International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) has urged rape victims, parents or caregivers to quickly take the victim to a hospital and report the incident in the police station so as to have primary evidence. Speaking exclusively to LEADERSHIP Weekend the president FCT chapter, FIDA, Rachael Adejo-Andrew, explained that at the hospital the victim’s private part would be examined by the doctors and who would subsequently give the caregiver the test result. But a lot of times, like if the victims don’t quickly go to either the hospital or police station, you discover that once the primary evidence is destroyed it becomes very difficult to prove rape, so what we tell people, for instance, if it’s in the case of a minor, the hymen probably will be broken and all of that but there are also cases of women who do not have hymen or their hymen is very thin even when it is broken, there’s no bleeding, so when you go to the hospital, the persons private part will be examined and then the doctors will carry out the proper test, when they carry out the proper test, they will come out with an appropriate report which will be helpful when the matter is being prosecuted. “When we go around sensitizing, what we inform people is that, because rape is an offence that you prove by presenting primary evidence, you need primary evidence to prove a rape case, the semen and all of that, the blood test, the DNA of the semen and all of that, so what we normally advice people is, quickly go to the hospital so that the medical examination can be carried out and then the evidence can be kept in form of the medical report and thereafter you go to the police station.’’ Adejo-Andrew also decried the increasing cases of rape in the country which she described as worrisome, adding that it was difficult that a day would pass by without hearing about a case of rape or the issue of defilement of a minor. Speaking exclusively to LEADERSHIP Weekend the president FCT chapter Rachael Adejo-Andrew noted that the organisation had been encouraging young ones to break the culture of silence. Adejo-Andrew said the association is doing its bit on a daily basis to sensitizing people on the dangers of rape. “We keep sensitizing people, like now for rape, you know that the punishment prescribed by the violence provision act 2016 is life imprisonment so we are hoping that this will deter people from committing rape. “For us at FIDA, the increasing rape cases in the nation is worrisome because, increasingly we hear about rape on the pages of newspapers, a day barely passes by without you hearing about a case of rape or the issue of defilement of a minor, so it very worrisome to us in FIDA and its one thing that we are really wondering how it can be eradicated. ‘’We are doing our bit on a daily basis, we keep sensitizing people, like now for rape, you know that the punishment prescribed by the violence provision act 2016 is life imprisonment so we are hoping that this will deter people from committing rape.’’ She said as part of its social responsibility they do organise sensitization outreaches. “We hope that people will listen and stay away from raping, violating and defiling young children,’’ she said. She explained that if cases of rape or defilement of minor occurred they should ensure that there was primary evidence. She advised victims or caregivers to quickly go to the hospital so that the medical examination could be carried out and then the evidence can be kept in form of the medical report and thereafter you go to the police station. She explained that without primary evidence, it becomes very difficult to prove rape in court, so primary evidence is very important in the trial and proof of rape in court. She, however, advised young women to stay out of trouble and don’t visit men indiscriminately without the knowledge of their caregivers or parents. ‘‘We have heard cases whereby we are told that sometimes the ’no’ could mean ‘yes’ so we have been educating students to know their worth and their rights. ‘’FCT, FIDA Abuja has been going around doing a lot of sensitization, we have been telling students that when you say ‘no’, ensure that your ‘no’ is ‘no’ and do not go to compromising places, be careful with your drinks, because these days we understand that drinks are being drugged, they can drop a drug in your drink, and once you’re drunk, they have easy access to you and all of that. ‘’ It is so worrisome that the rape case is just everywhere, children in school, people in church and all of that, it’s so very worrisome but there must be someone you can report to so don’t keep quiet and we are also encouraging people to break this conspiracy of silence, people are suffering they don’t want to say anything or sometimes in schools the students ask us, what if your dad is touching you and you tell your mum and your mum tells you to keep quiet what do you do and in that kind of instance, you know it is very difficult, so look for another person in authority that you could talk to it can be your imam, pastor, principal in school, so people shouldn’t keep quiet or stay silent. ‘’We must eradicate this scourge, it is going to pull us down if we are not careful, so we are working down the clock to make sure that it is eradicated.  FG to start national campaign, establish special court for trial of rapist The Ministry of Information and Culture, and Federal Ministry of Women Affairs counterpart is set to launch a national campaign against rape and gender-based violence in the country. The campaign is aimed at raising the level of awareness about rape and gender-based violence, and also to ensure that Nigerians own the fight against the abhorrent and repulsive criminal acts. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who disclosed this when he received a delegation of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), led by its executive secretary, Mr. Tony Ojukwu, on an advocacy visit said: “As a matter of fact, the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture is partnering with the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs to launch a national campaign against rape and gender-based violence. This campaign will include advocacy, public sensitization and social mobilization.’’ Mohammed said the government would leave no stone unturned in its efforts to stamp out rape and other forms of violence against women. The federal government through the Ministry of Justice has said it will establish a special court for adjudication of rape and gender-based violence offences in the country. Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami said that the specialised courts, when established would enable seamless and timely trial of all pending and incoming rape/gender violence-based cases. “To tackle this hydra-headed menace headlong, the ministry of Justice is currently engaging with the respective heads of courts for the establishment of specialised courts for the speedy trial of rape/gender-based violence offences in Nigeria,” Malami who was represented by the permanent secretary, Ministry of Justice, Dayo Akpata said. He said the ministry has commenced the review of all existing laws and policy instruments relating to rape, child defilement, and gender-based violence in the country. The Justice minister said that the government would continue to demonstrate zero tolerance for rape and other forms of child abuse. “Serious efforts will be exerted aimed at not only curbing domestic and sexual violence in Nigeria but also to eliminate the same.” He added that efforts were in place to introduce sexual offenders to register in all security agencies in the country. “It will involve the coalition and publication of the data of all sex offenders in Nigeria aimed at facilitating public humiliation and deterrence to such conducts,” Malami said. Earlier, Ojukwu called for concerted efforts to stem the scourge, adding that the rising number of cases across the country had reached a horrifying proportion. Similarly, the minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen, has described the recent upsurge in rape cases in the country as a ‘pandemic within a pandemic’ She insisted that the nuisance is becoming worse than that of COVID-19 pandemic. “My heart bleeds with the high incidences of rape cases and gender-based violence on daily basis. It has always been there. We know we have always had an epidemic of violence against women and rape cases particularly minors but with COVID-19, the situation has become a pandemic within a pandemic,” the minister said during a ‘’Stand Up Rally’’ organised by the Women’s Right Advancement Alternative (WRAPA). The secretary-general of WRAPA, Hajia Saudatu Mahdi, who was represented by project coordinator WRAPA/ EU- UN Spotlight initiative, Mrs Yemisi Nathaniel said the aim of the rally and advocacy is to amplify civil society organisations, women’s group voices against sexual and Gender Based Violence (GBV) in the FCT and demand zero tolerance for violence against women and girls.