The Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State chapter has warned Governor Seyi Makinde against the idea of reopening schools in the state, saying the idea is counter- productive. ALGON’s chairman, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye in a statement said though reopening of schools might be the wish of many parents, guardians, teachers and students because of the long closure and academic time loss due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the safety of the pupils should be of utmost importance now. “The long closure of schools and academic time loss could have been a reason the governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde, was eager to reopen schools, especially for primary six, JSS3 and SS3 students on June 29, 2020 for them to prepare for their examinations. “On the face of it, the governor’s action looks good and responsive to the people’s wishes and anxiety. But we hasten to add that wishes and anxiety need to be measured carefully against coordinated verifiable medical and scientific deductions on public health emergencies like in the case of COVID-19 pandemic, with its uncertainty, and projection at finding a cure for the global disease. ‘’As the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has severally  declared, the nation is yet to flatten the curve and we are now at the increasing stage of community transmission of the disease. “The sudden increase in cases of COVID-19 in Oyo State and many other states coupled with high casualty figures is a pointer to the validation of the NCDC position. Hence, the state government should apply great caution in rushing to reopen the schools. “As it is now, Oyo State COVID-19 random testing capacity is still very low relative to its huge population and the jump in reported cases of COVID-19 creates more anxiety than the eagerness to be back to school, ” AbaBY ADEBAYO WAHEED, Ibadan The Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State chapter has warned Governor Seyi Makinde against the idea of reopening schools in the state, saying the idea is counter- productive. ALGON’s chairman, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye in a statement said though reopening of schools might be the wish of many parents, guardians, teachers and students because of the long closure and academic time loss due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the safety of the pupils should be of utmost importance now. “The long closure of schools and academic time loss could have been a reason the governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde, was eager to reopen schools, especially for primary six, JSS3 and SS3 students on June 29, 2020 for them to prepare for their examinations. “On the face of it, the governor’s action looks good and responsive to the people’s wishes and anxiety. But we hasten to add that wishes and anxiety need to be measured carefully against coordinated verifiable medical and scientific deductions on public health emergencies like in the case of COVID-19 pandemic, with its uncertainty, and projection at finding a cure for the global disease. ‘’As the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has severally  declared, the nation is yet to flatten the curve and we are now at the increasing stage of community transmission of the disease. “The sudden increase in cases of COVID-19 in Oyo State and many other states coupled with high casualty figures is a pointer to the validation of the NCDC position. Hence, the state government should apply great caution in rushing to reopen the schools. “As it is now, Oyo State COVID-19 random testing capacity is still very low relative to its huge population and the jump in reported cases of COVID-19 creates more anxiety than the eagerness to be back to school, ” Abass-Aleshinloye said.                          