The National Human Rights Commission has called on Journalist as well as media organizations to assist the Commission in promoting, protecting and enforcing the human rights of Citizens resident in the country. The Executive Secretary of the Commission, Mr. Tony Ojukwu who made the call, yesterday, during a media parley in Abuja, Commended the role the media has played in the just concluded 5-days of activism on war against rape and sexual/gender based violence organised by his Commission . Ojukwu who said the Nigerian Media has done a lot as concerns the promotion of human rights in the country, also reiterated that the responsibility of the media is to bring to limelight violations that are capable of destroying the country’s image and to drive the government to make the violators account for their crimes. While stressing the need for journalist to be able to analyze existing laws that are in place for protecting human rights of children, the NHRC Act as well as the consumer protection rights, ojukwu said the NHRC will put measures in place to train media practitioners and journalist that covers the Commission. “We want to train those who want to specialise on Human Rights Reporting. The training will give human rights reporters the knowledge of how to treat some of the bills that concerns human rights as well as its basis in order to enrich their reportage”. “We are using this opportunity to also call on you, journalist to use your medium to carry out surveillance responsibility to help monitor and report human rights violations to us. This can be done through constant vigilance on infringement of human rights, it could also be done by exposing law enforcement agents brutality and repression and how victims can seek redress. You can help us highlight the inadequacy of funding to the  Commission, the need for government to provide specific budget items for rape and Sexual, Gender Based Violations and the need for government and corporate organisations to contribute to the human rights fund to galvanize human rights promotion and protection”, he said. While calling on victims of this crimes not to shield the perpetrators of this crimes for fear of stigmatisation and attack, but to come out and report their experiences to the Commission, Nigeria’s number one defender of human rights promised that modalities are put in place to provide  protection against further attack and stigmatisation and also to ensure that this crimes, no matter how long they were committed, are not allowed to go unpunished. 