The minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, has said that the federal government was developing a 3-year health sector COVID-19 Response Action Plan since the pandemic will obviously remain for a long time. Ehanire, who stated this yesterday during the Presidential Task Force briefing, said that the plan would be used as a roadmap for the sector’s plan over the next 36 months. “It is the product of very learned minds and is divided into short, medium and long term, with a flexibility to accommodate what changes or what we learn additionally about COVID-19 along the way,” he explained. Ehanire further advised that those who tested positive should present themselves at a treatment center, especially those with underlying ailments like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, HIV, TB and among others or are above 60 years of age. “The reason is that COVID-19 symptoms can start mildly with slight fever, cough, and loss of smell or taste but can suddenly escalate to shortness of breath in no time, when it’s difficult to get to a hospital in time. COVID-19: FG Develops 3-year Response Action Plan BY PATIENCE IVIE IHEJIRIKA, Abuja The minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, has said that the federal government was developing a 3-year health sector COVID-19 Response Action Plan since the pandemic will obviously remain for a long time. Ehanire, who stated this yesterday during the Presidential Task Force briefing, said that the plan would be used as a roadmap for the sector’s plan over the next 36 months. “It is the product of very learned minds and is divided into short, medium and long term, with a flexibility to accommodate what changes or what we learn additionally about COVID-19 along the way,” he explained. Ehanire further advised that those who tested positive should present themselves at a treatment center, especially those with underlying ailments like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, HIV, TB and among others or are above 60 years of age. “The reason is that COVID-19 symptoms can start mildly with slight fever, cough, and loss of smell or taste but can suddenly escalate to shortness of breath in no time, when it’s difficult to get to a hospital in time.