Amidst concerns that Nigeria may become insolvent and unable to repay her creditors, especially China, the federal government yesterday said the nation’s debt obligation to China is $3.121bn, adding, the loans are project-tied – with the ability or plan to repay the loans. Nigeria’s Debt Management Office (DMO) says they are concessional loans with Interest rates of 2.50% per annum, with 20 year tenor and grace period (Moratorium) of 7-years. Former vice President, Atiku Abubakar is among those who recently raised concerns over the nation’s rising debt profile, saying Nigeria is at a precipice. “If our revenue figures do not go up, and go up quickly, Nigeria risks a situation where our revenue cannot even sustain our debt servicing obligations,” he said. The $3.121bn represents 3.94% of Nigeria’s total public debt of $79.303 billion (N28,628.49 billion at $/N361) as at March 31, 2020. Similarly, in terms of external sources of funds, loans from China accounted for 11.28% of the external debt stock of $27.67 billion at the same date. These data show that China is not a major source of funding for the Nigerian government. According to a statement that was issued by the debt office yesterday, the loans are being used to finance 11 projects across Nigeria. The projects are Nigerian Railway Modernisation Project (Idu-Kaduna section); Abuja Light Rail Project; Nigerian Four Airport Terminals Expansion Project 2 (Abuja, Kano, Lagos and Port Harcourt); Nigerian Railway Modernization Project (Lagos-Ibadan section) and Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Abuja – Keffi- Makurdi Road Project. “The projects also have the added benefits of job creation, not only by themselves but through direct and indirect service providers, a number of which are Small and Medium Enterprises. It is widely accepted that investment in infrastructure is one of the most effective tools for countries to achieve economic growth and development. Using Loans from China to finance infrastructure is thus in alignment with this position,” the DMO said. The DMO said the loans were obtained under terms that are compliant with the provisions of section 41 (1a) of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2007. In addition, the low interest rate reduces the interest cost to Government while the long tenor enables the repayment of the principal sum of the Loans over many years. It stated that the two benefits make the provisions for Debt Service in the Annual Budget lower than they would otherwise have been if the Loans were on commercial terms.