Nigeria, with reported cases of over 153,000 deaths from malaria in 2019 and 95,000 deaths in 2018, according to the World Health Organization (WHO), showed that malaria is deadliest than the Covid-19 which has killed barely 400 people in the country and closed to 400,000 globally, forcing countries to shut down all economic activities at a time. In Africa alone, over 1,000,000 people die from malaria every year. Despite this high rate of mortality, the WHO did not deem it fit to declare the mosquito infested disease an epidemic. It is even worse than the so-called Covid-19 which was declared a pandemic. Even at that, the African leaders are playing a blind game to this deadly disease that is gradually eradicating their people at an alraming rate. It’s mostly believed by Nigerians especially those who tested positive for Covid-19 that it was malaria symptoms that they had and were administered malaria medications as remedy. Those testimonies have also attested to the fact that indeed malaria is the major cause of deaths in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. Nigeria alone accounts for almost 24 percent of all global malaria deaths. This calls for a serious concern and the need for concerted effort from all and sundry to eradicate this catastrophe to save the country from losing both human and financial resources that could contribute immensely to the development of the country. The novel coronavirus has taught us lesson as a nation, on how not to play politics with human lives. Many individuals and corporate organizations came together and contributed hundreds of billions to support the government’s fight against the pandemic. It was a good gesture and a show of patriotism. But it will do us more good if such gestures are equally done for the eradication of Malaria in the country. On Monday, the Federal Government announced that within two months a total of N1,689,757,489.87 (One Trillion Six Hundred and Eighty-Nine Billion Seven Hundred Fifty-Seven Million) was received as COVID-19 eradication support donations from 1st April to 31st May 2020 through designated commercial banks accounts and the CBN/TSA. This clearly shown that Nigerians are ever willing to support any project that will eradicate deadly diseases like Covid-19 and Malaria, from the country.
It will be ideal if the government would set aside at least N300 billion from the sum realized to support the ongoing research project by Prince Ned Nwoko Foundation that is piloting the Malaria Eradication Project which has been identified by the WHO as the major cause of deaths in Nigeria. Nigerian Philanthropist and legal luminary, Prince Ned Munir Nwoko who has vowed to use his resources to eliminate malaria in Nigeria and Africa, said “it is time to put an end to the age-long disease and its cause.” Nigeria has spent over N200 billion in the last ten years fighting malaria asides the hundreds of billions spent annually by the development partners. These funds are spent only for malaria medication without investing a dime for research to finding a solution to the disease. Prince Nwoko has all the money in the world to live a luxury life in any part of the globe but he chooses to stay in Nigeria with his family because he is determined to eliminate malaria which himself and his family members have suffered from. Nwoko has engaged renowned researchers and anthropologists to come up with the best methodology that could be used to eradicate malaria in Nigeria just as it has been done in the developed economies. Recently Prince Ned Nwoko visited Antarctica and concluded the discussion with experienced scientists who will execute the project in Nigeria. Speaking on the idea of fumigation the entire country to flush out malaria from the country, Prince Nwoko said “It’s born out of humanity, the realization that nothing has been done in this area that is an ongoing crisis in the health sector. If we have over five hundred thousand people dying every year according to the United Nations statistics, it is a huge number and nothing is being done about it or nothing seems to be on the pipeline that I am aware of. I’m trying to research to find out. For two years I have being researching trying to find out but my conclusion was that this is not a White man’s problem, it is our problem just like sickle-cell, and sickle-cell is also part of the offshoot of malaria. Long time malaria crisis is what lead to sickle-cell anemia. If it is not a White man’s problem, this explains why they have not bothered to pay attention at finding a cure by way of vaccine. Vaccine is the ultimate solution and I felt that we have to look for a solution from within Africa, from among ourselves and I know I can start it and I believe others will join as I go along. “We have started, my going to Antartica was part of the process. I went to Antartica and met with some scientists, with the company involved in the air fumigation and also advising on the best form of insecticides to use because they’ve done it before in Florida and in Malaysia. “They also told me that they have done it in some of the Caribbean Islands where their were mosquitoes before but no more. So we have a solution, it’s just a question of planning and implementing it,” optimistic Nwoko said. This is a novel project which the Federal, State and Local Governments should key in as a matter of urgent national importance so as to eradicate the cause of this deadly disease from Nigeria. So far, in the area of research, Hon Ned Nwoko has provided money to five universities in the country to come up with a vaccine or develop a solution for eliminating mosquitoes. He, however, explained, “Federal Government may not have any role to play, state government may not have any role to play, since I am personally funding it exclusively, completely. But if those (universities) we chose are from federal government’s institutions, they have a role to play in guiding them, in advising them, making sure that they go to work and come out with a result. We are working with the ministry of health, we will work with everybody – health, education, enironment, we will work with everybody.” Nwoko is not bothered about the billions of naira he has expended on the project provided he achieves his goal. “This is about the need to save lives no financial cost is comparable to live. So I am not looking at the cost because I can afford to do so in doing what I am doing now. When the time comes, if I need support, from the federal government or state, I will let them know,” he added. So we need everybody’s collaboration including the media, we need everybody to go out there and pass the message so that people would be aware, to sensitize people sufficiently enough to know what is happening so that in the next weeks when they see aeroplanes flying to fumigate, they won’t say ah! What is happening? Especially when it would be done at night between about 10 pm and 4 am when people are going to be sleeping. And of course, the clean ups, everybody must be involved. We need everybody’s collaboration not only federal government as asking. Corroborating Hon Nwoko’s position on eradicating malaria, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, (PSN) in a message to mark this year’s World Malaria Day, identified malaria infection as one risk factor that would increase the case fatality of COVID-19 adding that about 97 per cent of Nigeria’s population was at risk of malaria infection. This is quite alarming! In its message, the National President of PSN, Pharm Sam Ohuabunwa noted that Plasmodium falciparum was the most prevalent malaria parasite in Nigeria accounting for 99.7 per cent of estimated malaria cases. In the last decade, 10 countries have been certified by the WHO as malaria-free, with Algeria and Argentina making the 2019 list and Nigeria cannot be an exception. Also, the WHO Director-General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said the success of those countries that have eradicated malaria should be a model and inspiration for all malaria-endemic countries. The PSN worried that COVID-19 pandemic challenges the entire world, said that the importance of strong health systems to fight deadly infectious diseases like malaria, becomes more obvious; and asserted that continuous improvement against malaria can only be achieved with increased investment, and World Malaria Day presents an opportunity to remind world leaders of their commitments to end the preventable and treatable disease. According to the pharmaceutical society, there is a need for increased funding to cover all those at risk of malaria infection and improve on research and development. Just like Hon Ned Nwoko, the PSN believes that there is need to invest in innovative strategies to contain public health challenges like malaria, emerging and re-emerging ones like COVID -19 and Ebola. “Unless we take charge of malaria interventions, elimination and eradication of the disease may not be near. Deliberate attention should be paid to the community Pharmacists who provide over 60 percent of the malaria interventions in the country. Nigeria is far from becoming malaria-free but was making remarkable progress, ” the PSN posited. In one of his interviews with journalists, the champion of malaria-free Africa, Hon Nwoko, said: “I am totally focus about eradication of malaria, it’s a common problem that we have come to accept as part of us, that is the sad thing about it. Virtually, every Nigerian now feels that there is nothing can be done just by some tablets – self medication, or go for prescription we have succumbed, we have succumbed to the will of mosquitoes , we feel helpless, but it shouldn’t be. There are solutions, this is what I am trying to make everybody to understand and that these solutions are what I am pursuing. The research will take about three to four years, which is long term, the clean up is between one to three years within Nigeria, and Nigeria being the pilot case, should take more time. By the time we are done with Nigeria and being a bigger country more than others, others will take less time.” Hon Nwoko is totally committed to this cause hence the need for government and key players in the private sector and multinationals to support this effort to ensuring that Nigeria becomes a malaria-free nation.  Dadiya wrote in from Abuja 