One Person has died while five others sustained various degrees of injuries when soldiers attacked members of Borno COVID-19 Committee The soldiers carried the attack Saturday on the Committee while forcing their way with several illegal travellers they were escorting to Maiduguri against the interstate lockdown order along Maiduguri-Damaturu highway. The soldiers who arrived in three gun trucks, allegedly threatened to open fire on the COVID-19 Committee members led by the State’s attorney general, Kaka Shehu Lawal and commissioner of health, Dr. Saliyu Kwaya-bura. While breaking through the barricade, the soldiers rammed through a patrol truck of the State Rapid Response Squad which forced the vehicle somersaulting in the bush. All local security personnel in the vehicle sustained injuries. The driver of the RRS truck died hours later at the Borno Specialist Hospital. The soldiers also knocked down some commercial tricycles (Keke Napep). Three women, including a pregnant woman and a baby, sustained injuries. While allowing hundreds of travellers into the state in violation of the restriction order, the soldiers also assaulted a cameraman attached to the committee while he was filming the vehicles entering into the state on escort of the soldiers. It could be recalled that Borno government imposed a restriction of interstate travel with only persons on essential duties or with the issued pass allowed into the state. Speaking to Journalists after the attack, the State’s attorney general, Kaka Shehu Lawal said they were assaulted and unfortunate that it was a federal government law enforcement agency that attacked them. Lawal added that they were  carrying out a federal government order on restriction on interstate movement and the soldiers in three gun trucks decided to violate that by forcefully leading passengers into the state. “They did not only break through the barricades but also assaulted us as a committee. They beat up our cameraman, seized his camera, and attempted to beat up some of the policemen in our committee. “We did our best to calm the policemen, while I tried to confront one of the soldiers to remind him of the consequences of their action. But to my greatest surprise, the soldier looked at me and told me he doesn’t care about our ‘useless democracy’.” The state’s deputy governor, Umar Kadafur, who is also  the Chairman of the COVID-19 Committee , arrived at the scene of the fracas and called the garrison commander to meet him at the scene. The garrison commander who apologised for the action of the soldiers said the perpetrators have been identified and would face disciplinary action. The garrison commander also said that the officer commanding the soldiers that violated the restriction order said they acted based on the fact that incoming travellers that were trying to escape the committee had gathered at a location, and the soldiers were worried that they could come under attack by Boko Haram insurgents. Hence they led them into the state. Confirming the development, the state commissioner of health, Dr . Saliyu Kwaya-bura said they have just received a report from the hospital that the injured driver had passed away. “This is very sad that all this happened because some soldiers chose to break the law. We are doing our best to curtail the spread of the pandemic, that is why we are enforcing the ban on interstate travel. “The cases of COVID-19 are on the rise and most of the new cases are from the travel violators whose blood sample we too while they are in the quarantine facility,” said Kwaya-bura.