A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress APC in Delta State, Nnamdi Ofonye has declared his interest to occupy the office of the Deputy National Secretary of the party saying Victor Giadom can no longer occupy the office having gone against the constitution of the party. Ofonye who addressed a press briefing in Asaba, said for Gaidom to obtain a court order to make him the acting national chairman after the suspension of Adams Oshiomhole against the party constitution the NWC should wield the big stick. While declaring his interest for the office of the National Deputy Secretary Ofonye, also throw his weight behind the constitution of the party which made it possible for Senator Abiola Ajimobi to assume the office as the Acting national chairman of the party. “In the last meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC) it was announced that the seat of the deputy national secretary has remained vacant since 2018 as Victor Giadom resigned to contest as the deputy governorship candidate of our party in Rivers State. “Based on that, they further announced that the South-South should nominate a replacement to fill vacant. We all know that the NWC is the highest organ of the party and based on that, I am calling on the South-South caucus of APC ably led by the deputy senate president, Ovie Omo-Agege, to push that I, Nnamdi Ofonye be accepted to fill that vacant position of deputy national secretary of the party. “I have the capacity, experience, charisma to assist our national leadership that is determined to end all crises in the party including that of Rivers State within the shortest possible time. I am calling on the NWC to immediately announce me as the deputy national secretary, in acting capacity, of APC.” On the suspension of Oshiomhole as national chairman, Ofonye said the NWC also endorsed Hilliard Eta as acting national chairman as the only replacement for Senator Abiola Ajimobi, pending when Senator Ajimobi is feat to resume office. According to him, “I am calling on the APC leader in the​ South South, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege to push for the declaration of the office of the Deputy National Secretary which was zoned to South South to be micro zone to Delta State since Victor Giadom has flouted the constitution of our party by obtaining an order from court to declare himself as the Acting chairman. “The NWC should allow a neutral person like myself to be appointed as the Deputy National Secretary since Rivers state chapter of the party has been in the crisis.” 