Stakeholders have underlined the need for nations to safeguard the rights of migrant workers at all times. This was the consensus at a one-day webinar organized by the Abuja Office of the International Labour Organisation, ILO, on the impact of COVID-19 on the rights of migrant workers in Nigeria. In his address, the executive secretary, National Human Rights Commission, Tony Ojukwu, pointed out that as Nigeria is a signatory to the international conventions on the rights of migrants, it behoves on the country to abide by its provisions even during emergency situations like the COVID-19 pandemic that has negatively impacted the socio-economic fabric of the globe. “Any emergency response to COVID-19 must be carried out in strict accordance with international Human Rights standard, including the convention on migrant workers. Such response must integrate migrant workers into the national Covid 19 prevention and response plans and policies including ensuring their access to health services”. Ojukwu said, adding that migrants should be allowed to go home if they choose to do so. On her part, the director-general, National Agency for the Prohibition in Trafficking of Persons, NAPTIP, Julie Okah-Donli, expressed worry that most migrant workers in the informal sector are exposed to loss of jobs due to COVID-19, hence the need for a data on those who lost their jobs so as to give them social protection cover. She further urged all stakeholders to cooperate in guaranteeing the rights of migrants so as to prevent them from falling victim to human traffickers. Also speaking, Nigeria country director, Amnesty International, Osai Ojigho, emphasised the need  to harmonise domestic and international provisions on the rights of indigenous and migrant workers so as to address the ambiguity as to the rights ascribed to nationals and non-nationals. She discouraged the imposition of penalty for violation of COVID-19 guidelines and advocated for intensification of knowledge about the disease and post penalty. In her presentation, the ILO Regional Labour Migration and Mobility Specialist, Gloria Chammartin, drew attention to the deplorable condition of migrants in detention facilities where some of them are being infected. Chammartin called for social protection, capacity building and labour reintegration of migrants and returnee migrant workers, noting that contribute to the development of the host and country of origin. She further urged African nations to have a common position on International Labour Standard as well as to strengthen the capacity of their embassies/consular office to handle migration issues. In his remarks, the director of ILO Abuja Office, Dennis Zulu expressed optimism that issues raised at the webinar will lead formal policies and concrete action towards protecting all categories of employees including migrant and returnee migrant workers. 