A member of House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Bamisile, has warned the contractor handling the reconstruction of the collapsed Ureje Bridge in Ado Ekiti against doing jobs. The Lawmaker urged the contractor as a matter of urgency provide alternative motorable road for the residents of the area. Bamisile, who is the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), said such will mitigate the hardship being experienced by residents and prevent a section of the metropolis from being outrightly cut off from the capital city. The former Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, who warned the contracting firm, Dipcrest Nigeria against cutting corners noted the alternative road along Igirigiri road and  Ado Ekiti Local government provided by the contractor ,was not motorable. Addressing reporters in Ado Ekiti on Sunday, Bamisile said he had been at the forefront of the struggle for the rehabilitation of the bridge since it was submerged by flood in 2019. The federal lawmaker added that creating alternative road became expedient owing to the strategic nature of the road to the survival of the state’s economy and its people. “The Contractor should work on some marshy portions on that road. It has to be graded because over 500 vehicles were trapped there on Thursday and this is unacceptable,” he said. Eminent Ekiti indigenes, including Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), had condemned the sudden closure of the road by the contractor last week without providing viable alternative, describing the action as inimical to the general wellbeing of the people. The bridge, located along Ado-Ijan-Ikare collapsed last year due to persistent flooding, which sparked up series of protests when the entire Ureje , a suburb of Ado Ekiti and other council areas were cut off from the capital city. The Lawmaker representing Ekiti South Federal Constituency II , said the Contractor cannot but deliver quality job, taking cognisance of the hardship the people had experienced ,particularly the death of some people and the multimillion property that  were  destroyed  by the attendant flood. According to him, “Our people have suffered on this road since the flooding started two years ago. Lives had been lost and property damaged, so this rehabilitation is a big relief to all of us. “The residents of the area and the Afe Babalola University, which represents the second largest employer of labour in Ekiti lost several millions of naira when the floor took over the bridge and hindered economic activities along that route. “Considering all these plights, I appeal to the contractor not to disappoint the people by deliver to time and according to specification for the people’s means of livelihoods not to be crippled for too long”, he advised. On the protest being planned over sudden closure of the bridge without alternative, Bamisile pleaded for understanding, saying such action will prevent the project from being completed in record time. “Let the residents heed the advice of Chief Afe Babalola that protest is not the best option for now. But if the contractor fails to deliver good work or drag the job too long unnecessarily, then we can begin to take other alternative actions”, Bamisile stated. 