The Gombe State government has attributed the current spike in positive cases of Coronavirus recorded within the last two weeks in the state to massive contact tracing and testing by its Rapid Response Teams (RRT). Chairman of the state Task Force on COVID-19, Prof Idris Mohammed, disclosed this during a press conference on in Gombe. Mohammed said the state had so far tested 3, 668 cases in two weeks, out of which 250 tested positive to the virus. He noted that the positive cases recorded in two weeks represented 158 per cent rise in the number of positive cases in the state. The Task force Chairman stated that before the two weeks under review, Gombe State had total positive cases of 160 and recorded 12 deaths. He said testing is key to determining the prevalence of infection in communities, adding that unless massive testing is carried out, it would be difficult to get data for safe opening of the economy. “If you don’t test, we are going to miss many people with positive cases who will continue to spread the infection within the community. This is why we are doing massive testing in the state. “Now, people will look at this differently, but there is only one way to look at it professionally and epidemiologically and the way to look at it properly in the context of Covid-19, is to say that Gombe State has done very well in the last two weeks. All over the world, people have been complaining about lack of testing , even the opening up of the economy, depends on the number of tests you carry out to determine the prevalence of infection in the community. Before you can relax your restrictions, you need to know what percentage of the population is infected and unless you test, and test and test, you will not get the data that will guide you toward safe opening of the economy,” Professor Mohammed said. According to him, despite the increasing number of positive cases in the state, Gombe recorded 12 deaths in all. He encouraged members of the public to get tested on time, so as to be saved from further complications and death, because contracting Covid-19 is like having malaria or typhoid fever, which one will recover from. He said the rise in the number of cases should not cause panic in the state, adding, “these tests reflect the positive way that Gombe State has responded to the fight against COVID-19.” “Apart from Lagos State, there is no state that is doing massive testing like Gombe and our responsibility is to minimise the harm that this pandemic causes; testing is keyed in that regard,” the chairman said. According to him, the 410 positive cases are in various isolation centres in the state, while efforts are being intensified to further sensitise communities in the state. Prof. Mohammed called on residents of the state to continue to adhere to health protocols while cautioning them against any complacency which could expose them to the risk of transmission.   