Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has chosen his deputy, Philip Shuaibu, to be his running mate in the September 19 governorship election in the state. Obaseki who stated this after he was given the party’s certificate recognising him as its candidate for the election, added that PDP governors revived his political career. Speaking after the PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus gave him the certificate, the Edo Governor also stated that his recent tribulations and his acceptance he received in PDP, showed that he was destined to be in the party. Obaseki said, “My deputy, by the grace of God, is going to be my running mate, for the September 19 election, because you do not change a winning team. “I want to commit to you that we shall promote the ideals of this great party and you can always count on us.” He added: “I and my deputy are very grateful to this great party. Like I said, you will never know what God has destined for you. In our hours of tribulation, when we were pushed out in the rains and storm from our political party, you came out with that huge umbrella to give us cover and shelter. “It was only when we entered the house that we then realised that this was the house we should have been in the first instance. Because we now saw that the values in the house are the values we cherish and the values we live for, values of justice, values of law and order, values of care for our people, putting the people first. “These are the values we have always been in pursuit of, which we found in this new house in which we have been graciously accommodated.” He thank members of the National Working Committee (NWC), PDP governors as well as the party aspirants who stepped down for him to emerge  candidate. “By the grace of God, we have no doubt that victory is going to be ours on September 19. What all theses occurrences in the last forthright tell me is that there is a hand of God that orders things.” “Whenever the National Working Committee calls on us, we will be there. We have no choice because from what I have seen from my brother governors in this party, what they have done and what they did for us in the party, revived my political career, I have never seen that level of commitment,” the governor said. Speaking earlier, the national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, also corroborated that God intervened in Obaseki’s travails, stressing “any situation, no one can query God. It was not planned, this was an act of God. And from that day all the processes that needed to be followed were followed. “Every body believed that it was a miracle and we are going to have a miracle governor who will win elections for us because you can see clearly the hand of God on this governor and his deputy. “With what happened to them in their former party, they decided that it will not be a war. When you desire something that is good and you have the support of your people, war is no alternative. They abandoned war in their former party in pursuit of good governance, justice and equity and fair play. They came to our party and we received them because we believe that they have performed.” In a related development, chairman of the PDP Edo governorship primary election panel, Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State, said the process that produced Obaseki was free and fair.