The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has  said that no repentant Boko Haram terrorists who has been reintegrated into the society will evade arrest  if he reneged on the pledge. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj-Gene. John Enenche, stated this while briefing journalists on the armed forces of Nigeria operations particularly the “Operation Safe Corridor” that is tasked with the deradicalisation, rehabilitation and reintegration (DRR) process of ex-Boko Haram Terrorists combatants. The coordinator noted that as part of the DRR process, the ex-combatants are administered an oath of allegiances to be of good conduct. He said that the National Identity Management Commission being one of the 17 agencies involved in the DRR process captures all repentant combatants on its data making it easy for them to be traced in any unfortunate incident. “The Operation Safe Corridor has put in place measures to fill the existing gap in the system that gave rise to the menace. “Gleaning from the concept and conduct of Operation Safe Coridor”, it is not a process of assembling raw repentant ex-combatants to inject back into the society by the military. Rather, it is an international best practice for conflict management backed by relevant laws with the concurrence of key stakeholders such as international organisations and MDAs among others. “Since its inception in 2016, OPSC has admitted 893 ex-combatants for the programme out of which 280 including two Chadians have been successfully reintegrated back into the society through their respective national and state authorities. “At presentl there are 603 of them undergoing the DRR Programme and would be graduating by July 2020,” he said. He said that the operation has recorded successes contrary to the views of critics. “The operation is a success story as feedbacks from those reintegrated are positive. A particular one in Bama who learnt barbing as a vocation has successfully empowered four locals and is happily married with children,” he noted. Also, the coordinator, “Operation Safe Corridor”, Maj-Gen B.M. Shafa reacting to critical views alleging neglect of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and providing succour to their aggressors, said that the federal government is concerned with the needs of the victims and the perpetrators as well. He said the repentant Boko Haram Terrorists combatants are given a second chance at life just as the IDPs are being catered for. 