The Federal Government has invested the sum of N20 billion for the construction of 10,000 housing units towards the resettlement of the internally displaced persons (IDPs). The minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya  Sadiya Umar Farouk, made this known during the official flag off of the project yesterday in Ngwom, in Mafa local government area of Borno State. She said the housing units which is being handled by the North East Development Commission (NEDC) will be spread across the 27 local government areas of the state , adding that 1000 of the houses will be in Ngwom, while the remaining 9,000 houses will be constructed across the various communities of the state. “And each house will cost the Federal Government about N2 million which is very modest. For these 1000 units, we hope to complete them in the next eight weeks.  They are semi detached bungalows for four households per bungalow,” she said. In his remarks, Borno State governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum, expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari’s led administration for embarking on such project in the state. Zulum said all the IDPs camps in Maiduguri will be closed by May 2020, after the displaced persons have been resettled back into their communities, with the efforts of the federal and state government. “We are overwhelmed, this is the first time, Borno State is having a big intervention programme from the federal government with respect to construction of housing estates. “Indeed, the people and government of Borno State remain eternally grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari and the minister for a job well-done. The housing units will go a long way in reducing the housing deficit in Borno State, especially with a view to accommodating the IDPs,” he said. Earlier in his remarks, the managing director, NEDC, Dr. Mohammed Alkali, pointed out Borno State lost 80 per cent of the housing stock to the Boko Haram insurgency, adding if the number of people in the IDPs camps are put together, there will definitely be need for more houses. He said in tackling the housing deficit as a result of the insurgency, President Muhammadu Buhari in his magnanimity approved the 10,000 housing units, which is being constructed by the NEDC to fill in the gap. “Here in Ngwom, the first 1000 houses will be built and work has started in earnest with 100 already built. Similarly, the commission has handed over two health facilities to Borno State government, which included a 30-bed centre at Muna IDPs camp and another 20-bed centre at Mohammed Goni Stadium IDP camp. “The facilities are intended to assist the state government and camp managers in providing basic healthcare services to internally displaced persons at the camps. “Yesterday the NEDC handed over 120 operational vehicles to the various security agencies, as well as ambulances and medical equipment to all federal tertiary institutions in the Northeast region,” he added.