Following the recent killings  by bandits and terrorists and other violent deviants in northern Nigeria, state governors in the region have declared their readiness to  crack down on the bandits. This is just as Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello,  has stressed the urgent need for the governors of the north central and north-western states to form a common front in tackling banditry in the two geo-political zones. Bello, who is the chairman of the North-Central Governors’ Forum, said he had initiated talks on this collaboration with his colleagues in the zone. He posited that inter-state collaboration was key to ending the nefarious activities of bandits in northern states. The governor added that, based on security reports, the upsurge in banditry in his state was due to military onslaught on the bandits in Zamfara  and Kaduna states. “In view of this , all security agencies operating in the states must share intelligence  to curb the menace of banditry in our states,“ he stated.  Masari vows to tackle banditry in Katsina In Katsina State, Governor Aminu Bello Masari vowed to support the military and police in whatsoever capacity is necessary to end the incessant attacks on citizens of the state. Masari, who stated this while addressing  journalists in Katsina at the weekend, lamented the spate of insecurity in the state and said it was the sole responsibility of government to support the security personnel in every capacity to end the attacks. He said: “Our responsibility is to support the security operatives, and we have done what we can from the little we have, and our support is 100 percent. We have even done what we shouldn‘t –  by going into the forest and dialoguing with the bandits. We fulfilled our own part of the agreement but they violated theirs. „That is why we have jettisoned the amnesty thing and left security operatives to handle the security issue. What we can do as government is to give security operatives the necessary support whenever they call upon us to do.“ The Katsina State governor further explained that the military and police did not have adequate manpower and equipment required to operate in all the troubled spots across the six geopolitical zones of the country, hence they need more support and empowerment to combat crimes.  Kaduna Will Kill Bandits, Not Negotiate With Them – el-Rufai In Kaduna State, the governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufai has vowed that his government will rather kill bandits rather than waste any time negotiating with bandits. To this effect, he called on the bandits to either stop their heinous acts or be ready to die. Governor el-Rufai reiterated this recently in Kaduna while delivering a speech shortly before performing the flagging off of inputs distribution to farmers as part of the mitigation measures against the effect of COVID-19 pandemic by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in collaboration with Kaduna State government. The governor lamented that the nefarious activities of bandits had greatly affected food production in the state and declared that such bandits will not be spared if they fail to desist from killing and attacking innocent people. While accepting that security is major concern in the state, he commended the efforts of security agencies in curtailing activities of bandits. „I want to assure farmers that the war against bandits will continue unabated, and to say that in Kaduna, we don‘t negotiate with bandit; we kill them, so it’s  either they stop banditry or be ready to die,“ he asserted.  There are No Armed Bandits In Kano -Ganduje Meanwhile, Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said there is no banditry in the state as is being experienced  in other northern  states in recent times. The governor made the disclosure yesterday during a media chat held at Government House, Kano. According to the governor, Kano is free from criminal activities such as  kidnapping, cattle rustling, and Boko Haram attacks, among other criminal activities. He attributed the good security situation in Kano to the proactive measures put in place  in taming the activities of the hoodlums by the state government. „ My administration constructed  a military training facility worth millions of Naira  at Falgore Game Reserve and handed it over to the military in order to keep all the criminals out of the Forest.“  Zamfara Govt Will Restore Peace -Dauran Despite recent pockets of attacks in some villages of Zamfara State, the efforts of the state government to restore peace will not be truncated,  commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Abubakar Duaran, has said. Dauran  explained that the state peace accord with bandits is still very much  in place and respected by both sides, adding that some few miscreants have decided to renege. The commissioner further assured that the state government had renewed its commitment in supporting the joint security task force to confront unrepentant bandits. He said part of the new effort was the procurement of 200 brand new Hilux vans to be distributed to the security agencies. He attributed the resurgence of attacks to the ongoing airstrikes in Katsina State.  Gov Vows To End Insecurity In Kogi In Kogi State, Governor Yahaya Bello has vowed to bring an end to the incessant cases of kidnapping and robbery in the state. A source at Kogi Government House who pleaded for anonymity said that Bello had vowed to ensure total eradication of kidnapping and robbery throughout the length and breath of the 21 local government areas in the state. LEADERSHIP recalls that in the last two weeks,  Kogi State had been under the siege of kidnappers and armed robbers, who left deaths in their trail. This informed the decision of the coalition of political parties to appeal to Governor Bello to impress it on the security agencies to  re-strategize their operations in order to restore peace to the state.  Sokoto Will Soon Overcome Bandits -Tambuwal Meanwhile, although  bandits recently launched attacks in some villages of Sokoto East Senatorial District of Sokoto State, it does not mean the state is not secure, says Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. Tambuwal, who noted that no village in Sokoto is under bandits’ occupation, added that the state will soon overcome the criminal elements called bandits. And in playing his role as the chief security officer of the state, Governor Tambuwal has so far donated 114 vehicles to the various security agencies in the state. The vehicles, according to Tambuwal,  will help the security agencies  to better police the state against bandits that are attacking some parts of the state. Tambuwal further stressed that in addition to the fact the vehicles are functionally equipped with modern security communication gadgets to help in facilitating effective intelligence sharing amongst security agencies, the state will equally establish a central intelligence information unit. LEADERSHIP reports that the state had initially entered into some form of negotiation with the bandits which led to them surrendering their weapons and pledging to sustain peace. However, though  the pact still exists, the recent spate of attacks in Sokoto is believed to have been orchestrated by fleeing bandits from neighbouring Zamfara State. The bandits were said to have vented their anger on innocent villagers because of the deadly blows meted out to them by the Nigerian security agencies in some states of the north west, it was reported. In Jigawa State, the security challenge is very minimal as the state has not recorded any issue of banditry  or insurgency in the last 10 years. That, however, does not go to mean the state is devoid of crimes, as the state occasionally records armed robbery, burglaries and farmer-herder clashes which most times are resolved amicably. The state police command appears to be very proactive in tackling the challenge and surely Jigawa is one of the most peaceful states now in the federation.  Act Now, Act Sincerely, CAN Tells Buhari The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kaduna State chapter, has expressed sadness over the mass killings and the increasing  insecurity in the north, especially in Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto and Borno states, and called on President Muhammadu Buhari to act now and act sincerely. Kaduna State  chapter of CAN, in a statement issued and signed by the chairman, Revd John Joseph Hayab observed that in the last few weeks, hundreds of people have been killed by Boko Haram terrorists and bandits who are invading communities and unleashing mayhem on the people. It further averred that the security agencies appear to be overwhelmed and lack new tactics to handle the situation while both the state and federal governments seem to be shying away from the reality of the problem and appear to be living in self denial as people are being massacred by the criminals. According to the CAN, „People  are now living in perpetual fear as they are not safe on the highways and even in their homes. Rural communities are being invaded by bandits and farmers cannot go to their farms for fear of being killed or being abducted for ransom by gunmen.”  JIBWIS Calls For Prayers Against Insecurity The Jama‘atu Izalatil Bid‘a Wa Iqamatis Sunnah (JIBWIS) under the leadership of Sheikh Abdullahi Bala Lau has called on Nigerians to pray against insecurity. JIBWIS, in a statement it released yestetday, sympathised with the governments and people of Katsina, Sokoto, Kaduna, Niger and other parts of Nigeria for the continuous killing of several innocent citizens by bandits. „These unfortunate killings of innocent Nigerians by bandits almost on a daily basis in a country where there is responsible leadership and well organised security outfits is so disturbing. “We call on the security agencies not  to just put a watchful eyes or keep mute while bandits are freely killing innocent Nigerians. The security agents are constitutionality responsible for the protection of lives and property of all Nigerians irrespective of religion, political affiliation or ethnic differences. „In this period of global pandemic, when government‘s attention was on the serious fight against the continuous spread of this deadly COVID-19 that has eaten deep into our economy, there is the need for our security agencies to ensure adequate protection of lives and property of all Nigerians irrespective of religion, political affiliation or ethnic differences,“ the statement added.  Northern Coalition Gives Service Chiefs 14-day Ultimatum To End Killings The Coalition Against Killings In Northern Nigeria (CAKIN) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately sack the service chiefs apparently for their inability to bring the killings in the North and Nigeria at large to an end. The coalition has also issued a 14-day ultimatum to the federal government to end the unwarranted killings or the group will be left with no option but to take to the streets in protest. These demands were contained in a statement issued and jointly signed by Isa Abubakar (Northern Youth Council Of Nigeria), Yerima Shettima (Arewa Youth Consultative Forum), Yusuf Idris Amoke (Northern Anti Corruption Front), Mohammed Salihu Danlami (Arewa Youth Assembly), Murtala Abubakar (Joint Action Committee of Northern Youth Associations), Dr. Idris Mohammed (CUPS), Gambo Gujungu (Arewa Youth Forum), Muhammad Isah Imam (Northern Youth Forum) and Mikailu Abubakar (Arewa Defence League). The coalition lamented that „five years into President Muhammadu Buhari’s tenure,  instead of insecurity  reducing, it has escalated, thereby exposing great numbers of our people to avoidable deaths and loss of property in a manner that has never been witnessed before.”  Bandits Raze 6 Villages In Niger Six villages have been sacked by bandits who have intensified attacks on villages  in Gurmana ward of  Shiroro local government area of Niger State. LEADERSHIP gathered that an unspecified number of villagers were kidnapped after their houses were set ablaze. Most of them fled the villages through forest paths. Findings revealed that the villages sacked were  Kokki, Jabuki, Guto, Gwaja, Sundna and Kokki-Magami, and their farm produce carried away. It was gathered that for 48 hours  at the weekend, villages have been under attack simultaneously  One of the villagers, Mohammed, who spoke to our correspondent said, “The bandits have been attacking us  consistently with no help, but the  attacks took more alarming dimension this time as they  set many houses ablaze rendering many people homeless“. “The worst hit is Kokki village where about 10 people were kidnapped, and many houses set ablaze but  no life was lost. However, herds of cattle, food produce, motorcycles and other properties of the people were stolen before  the fire was set on the villages,” he said.