All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Ondo State, Prince Okunjimi Odimayo has unveiled a 5-Point developmental agenda to be pursued by his administration if he was elected as the governor in the October 10, 2020 Governorship Election in the State. Odimayo also pledged of good and qualitative governance as elected governor of Ondo State come February 24, 2021. The youthful businessman turned politician made his agenda public in Abuja at a Press Conference inside the Media Centre of the National Secretariat of APC, shortly after he picked his nomination and expression of interest forms to contest the July 20 Governorship primary election. The Ode-Irele born youngest aspirant to ever aspire to the exalted position of Governor of Ondo State, stated that his priority and emphasis would be mainly on a 5-Point Developmental Agenda on Free and quantitative education, quality healthcare services, infrastructural development, merchandise agriculture and industrialisation and Good governance and accountability. On education, Odimayo noted that education is the major industry and vocation in Ondo State since the creation of the state in 1978, and has been the main strength for modern human capital development and deployable for modern agricultural and other industrial businesses and enterprises. He therefore, promised to guarantee improved funding far and above of what is obtainable at present, so as to use the state resources for free and compulsory education at Primary and Secondary levels just like the days of late progressive leaders, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Pa. Michael Adekunle Ajasin. He further reinstated his promise to reduce drastically, the exorbitant tuition fees currently been paid in all  the State owned tertiary institutions as a way to stop the mass withdrawing episode of undergraduates from the institutions caused by inability of many parents and guardians to pay the new high fees. The governorship hopeful later get a boost for his ambition when the deputy Senate leader and Senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, Professor Ajayi Boroffice publicly endorsed the aspiration of Odimayo to contest the July 20 APC governorship primary poll. Senator Boroffice who is a leading leader of Unity forum in Ondo State, thrown his weight behind  Prince Jimi Odimayo ahead of the October 10 Governorship election in Ondo State. The Senator said Ondo State needs a redeemer who will sanitize the fouled political atmosphere of Ondo State and allow fresh air into the political space. His words: “I congratulate Prince Jimi Odimayo for achieving the milestone of obtaining the Ondo State governorship nomination form of our great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), for the 20th July primary election. “To the best of my knowledge, Prince Jimi Odimayo is the first aspirant among all the aspirants from the Unity Forum to achieve this milestone. This feat clearly underscores your sincerity of purpose and confidence. “It is instructive to note that I had appealed to all aspirants in the Unity Forum to come together in order to present a flagbearer for the forthcoming APC governorship election. This idea has not been achievable because of incurable optimism of aspirants as no aspirant is willing to step aside for the other. “Therefore, I decided to consult some elders, youths and women across the 18 local government areas of Ondo State. They have given me nod to identify with a credible aspirant who represents our aspirations, collective interests and hope for a more prosperous Ondo State”, Boroffice stated. According to the Senator who personally received the nomination form from Odimayo at his Abuja residence, noted that wide consultations showed that majority of the people desire a man who will manage the vast natural resources of Ondo State and transform our struggling economy to a viable economy. He stated further: “Our people desire a man who believes and embraces the fundamental principles of democracy. Not a man who runs a consanguineous government that is for the family, by the family and of the family. “Majority of party members desire a man who has not only demonstrated absolute loyalty to the party but also willing to run an inclusive government. “Our people desire a man with lofty height of maturity and whose candor and utterances will reflect the dignity of his office and respect the sacredness of our traditional values and institutions. “Having considered the educational credentials, business activities, development plans, party loyalty profiles of aspirants and consulted party leaders and members across all levels, I have decided to support Prince Jimi Odimayo as preferred aspirant to emerge as the Governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State. “Prince Jimi Odimayo epitomises the philosophy of the Not Too Young To Run. He is young and vibrant. From humble background, he achieved success by dint of hardwork as a self-made man. He has the capacity to cause industrial revolution, tackle unemployment, create business friendly environment and deliver other laudable initiatives. “Finally, I call on all my political associates and supporters in Ondo State to rally round the governorship aspiration of Prince Jimi Odimayo. Likewise, I call on all the youths in Ondo State to support the fast-moving youth movement that will elect one of them as Governor. In the circumstance that my generation is ready for paradigm shift in Ondo State, the youths need to own the struggle and deliver the win”.