As the world celebrates the 40th birthday of Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, the Emir of Qatar, a Lagos prince, Ambassador Kazeem Eletu-Odibo, popularly known as Prince Kazeem, has described the monarch as a visionary leader worthy of emulation. Prince Kazeem, who is the Chairman of Kazeem Royal Properties, organised a 10-man private party, on June 3, 2020, at his residence in Lekki Peninsula, Lagos, to mark the monarch’s birthday. At the event, he adopted, Sheikh Tamim, as his role model and mentor. He explained that he based his decision on the monarch’s style of leadership, which has brought prosperity, development, and peace to the Qatar Emirate. Sheikh Tamim, who was born on June 3, 1980, and is the fourth son of the immediate past Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, has held many top positions in Qatar, before ascending his father’s throne, on June 25, 2013. He is a known promoter of sports and healthy living in his country. In a chat with newsmen during the birthday celebration, Prince Kazeem stated that he got overwhelmed by the level of interest, Sheikh Tamim, has shown in promoting sporting events, not just in his country, but across the globe. He added that the monarch has also inspired him greatly through philanthropy, which he said focused on some of the poorest countries in the world. He said: “ Sheikh Tamim, is a visionary leader who I have made my role model and mentor. His works and ways of leadership have touched me a lot. As a Lagos Prince, I have been exposed to so many leaders, including kings across the globe, but none has inspired me as, Sheikh Tamim. His love for the development of sports across the world is overwhelming. “This is the kind of character I have endeavoured to mould myself into. I love sports. I have a football academy, known as, Prince Kazeem Football Academy, which has several young upcoming footballers in it and I have a foundation, Prince Kazeem Eletu-Odibo Foundation, which takes care of old people including widows.