The Presidential Task Force on COVID -19 have expressed concern over the recent spike in the number of COVID -19 cases in the country. Secretary to the Government of the federation, Boss Mustapha stated this  during the daily briefing of the PTF in Abuja. According to him “Nigeria witnessed a spike in number of confirmed cases when the number of recorded cases jumped to 663 on Tuesday, 9th June, 2020. This number gives us cause for concern as a Task Force and as a nation. “In the PTF briefing on Monday, 8th June, 2020, I emphasized that a great majority of Nigerians are still susceptible to COVID-19 and cautioned that if we allow it to transmit easily between us, it may be even more deadly. That admonition remains very valid and we still underscore vigilance and self-preservation. Mustapha said the PTF would continue to monitor the level of activities and compliance with the guidelines nationwide. The chairman of the PTF said Consultations will continue and he would hold another round of video conference with the team of Governors appointed by the National Economic Council to interface with the task force. According to him, the PTF will re-emphasize its appeal to governments at the sub-national level as well as security agencies to enforce the guidelines and protocols firmly. “The PTF would also be meeting with the heads of these agencies to further fine-tune strategies to ensure compliance. On the celebration of Democracy Day, Mustapha urged Nigerians to celebrate in a solemn and reflective manner. He stated “We must ensure that our goal is to stay alive and remain COVID-19 free. Let the date be a reminder of the reality of our times, the disrupting effects of COVID-19, the realization that we are faced with a new normal and the necessity for us to individually and collectively prepare ourselves to conquer this pandemic. “The best celebration we would bequeath ourselves, is to strengthen our individual and collective resolve to abide by the guidelines to protect ourselves, our friends, our loved ones and the country at large. He also stated that the PTF has advanced in its preparation for taking precision measures within the high burden local government areas identified adding that the strategy will be unfolded in due course. “We are also emphasizing risk communication and community engagement in a sustainable manner,” he said. He, however urge state governments to reach out to traditional, religious and community leaders for dialogue and education. “The major message will be ownership, behavioral change and take responsibility.