The presiding judge, FCT High Court, Hon. Justice Jude O Okeke has recused himself from the judgement on the matter between the governor and the various ward leaders in the just concluded ward and LGA congress in the state. Okeke made this known to parties upon an oral application made by A.O Ogar counsel for the claimants/applicants seeking for an extension of the order of interim injunction with suit number: FCT/HC/CV/1551/2020. The judge, however, ordered that the claimants’ counsel’s application for extension of life of the order of the interim injunction barring the governor from inaugurating any ward or local government council chairmen maintain status quo. He ordered that ‘’the claimant counsel’s application for extension of life of the order of interim injunction being unopposed by the defendant’s counsel, the application is granted. The life of the interim order of Injunction granted on 18 May, 2020 is extended pending the hearing and determination of the Claimants’ Motion on Notice for interlocutory injunction.’’ This is contrary to reports being peddled across social media platforms over the judgement purportedly gotten from a High Court in Abuja. In the suit filed at a Federal High Court in Abuja, the claimants, Emma Obidi and others sued the party leadership and its chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and the Cross Rivers state party Chairman Ntufam Edim Inok Edim. Speaking to newsmen via a telephone interview, the claimants’ representative, Mr Emmanuel Obidi, explained that he wants the will of the people to prevail, but the governor against the will of the people wants to install his men as ward and local government council chairmen. This according to him was in a bid to have a stronghold over the party and its workings ahead of his 2023 ambitions and hopes to singlehandedly install his successor. Reacting to the question of a judgement being given which has seemingly cleared the governor’s path, Obidi described it as unfounded and urged social media users to halt disseminating such falsehood.