The Chief Judge of the Federal Capital Territory, Hon Justice Ishaq Bello has said that one of the major causative factor for the sudden upsurge of rape is the issue of substance abuse adding that this must be addressed if this menace must be brought to its barest minimum. Justice Bello stated this in Abuja when the executive members of the International Federation of Female Lawyers (FIDA Abuja) paid him a courtesy visit to discuss issues of the recent upsurge in rape and other sexual based violence against women and girls and how the judiciary can play its part at ensuring Justice for victims. According to him  “These young men who sleep under the bridge often have hang over of drug, so any lady they see passing, they follow and then abuse her. They take advantage of solitory and rape. We must address this street boys. We must also look at the causes during this advocacy. We must address these street boys. Bridges are households here for alot of boys” He said he often decline releasing convicts of rape in the course of decongestion of prison as a way to show intending rapist that they won’t have any form of mercy if convicted for rape. In her address, FIDA Deputy Country Vice President, Amina Agbaje said government needs to declare a state of emergency on gender based violence so it is tackled forthwith, most efficiently and effectively  across all states of the federation. She said FIDA Nigeria wants all states to have in place the enacted laws or review their laws to deal with this menace adequately while calling for the implementation of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, the Child Rights Law and other related laws. Agbaje said FIDA is also advocating that the police, who have the responsibility to arrest and  investigate these cases must be well equipped to fight this menace diligently to secure convictions that will serve as deterrent to offenders. “FIDA insist on the arrest prosecution, conviction and punishment for offenders. We request the set up and activation of ‘Gender desk’ in all police post or stations manned by trained personnel and the free opening of case files for gender based violence cases. “We advocate for the establishment of Sexual Referral Centre (one stop shop) with rapid response teams attached comprising of the police, doctors, lawyers social welfare officers, psychologist, psychiatrist etc, to reduce the victim’s trauma and aid preservation of evidence for the effective prosecution of perpetrators” she said. Chairperson, FIDA Abuja branch, Racheal Adejoh-Andrew said Nigeria already have laws which deals with issue of rape but the challenge is implementation. Are these laws being implemented in different states across the country? “For someone who commits rape, we know that the highest penalty in accordance to VAPP Act is life imprisonment. By the time  the person spends all his life in prison or correctional centre as it is now, you know that person is practically useless. “We are not  saying that we should go outside the law but we are saying let there be implementations of the provisions of the law. We are saying that let there be prosecution, we are saying that the police should carry out investigations, we are saying that these matters should not just be reported and you have the police saying oh why don’t you settle, oh why do you want to press this matter forward. “We are saying let there be investigation, let there be proper prosecution, let there be convictions and more importantly, let the names of offenders who are already convicted be entered into the Sex Offender’s Register. Perhaps it may deter people who have intentions to rape women and children” Andrew noted. 