The Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, has given a breakdown of how the N21billion ($58million) intervention fund pledged by the Nigeria Oil and Gas Industry to combat COVID-19 will be spent. He said a total of N11.13 billon translating to 53 per cent of the N21billion is earmarked for the construction of medical infrastructure across the six geopolitical zones in the country. Further breakdown of how the fund would be utilised shows that the sum of N5.46 billion or 26 per cent of the intervention fund will go for logistics and in-patient support systems while the balance N4.41 billion representing 21 per cent is allocated medical consumables. A statement signed by the corporation’s spokesman, Dr. Kennie Obateru, in Abuja on Wednesday explained that the group’s Governance Committee comprising Managing Directors of oil companies and other Industry players, headed by the NNPC GMD, made the decision of how the fund would be disbursed. According to him, appropriated 53 per cent of the intervention funding for building hospital infrastructure, 26 per cent to the deployment of logistics and in-patient support systems and 21 per cent of the sum to provision of medical consumables across the Country. The statement noted that, “All the initiatives by the respective stakeholders form part of their usual Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme/commitments.” According to Dr. Obateru the ground-breaking   ceremonies for the construction of 200-bed Infectious Diseases Hospitals with in-situ laboratory had already been held in Bayelsa, Borno and Katsina States with that of the other locations to follow suit. He added that a recent report of the group’s delivery schedule indicated that other medical consumables and logistic support have been delivered to 20 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), while end of June 2020 is set for states yet to receive. “The report said medical consumables comprising respirators, protective suites and test kids as well as logistics and in-patient support systems among which are ambulances, ventilators and beddings and laboratory equipment have been delivered to 21 states and the Federal Capital Territory,” he stated. Dr. Obateru listed the States that have received medical consumables as well as logistics and in-patient support systems to include: Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Borno, Delta, Ekiti, Enugu, Imo, Jigawa, Kwara, kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Oyo, Sokoto, Plateau and Rivers State as well as the FCT. Mallam Kyari, who leads the intervention group, was quoted to have said that 14 medical centres in total and two Intensive Care Unit (ICU) expansion and upgrade would be delivered across the federation as part of the intervention initiative. According to the statement, “Intervention is provided in kind by donors using internal transparent procurement processes driven with a clear governance structure of the various coalescing companies involved in the initiative.” The Oil Industry Intervention group is made up of the NNPC, Oil Producers Trade Section (OPTS), Independent Petroleum Producers Group (IPPG), Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers (DPPMA), Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN) and Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG). The Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry under the leadership of the NNPC has embarked on an Industry-wide collaborative intervention in recognition of the ravaging impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the critical sectors of the national economy. The initiative is to support the ongoing Federal Government’s efforts and in collaboration with the Presidential Task Force and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to curb the pandemic. 