President Muhammadu Buhari has met with some governors elected on the platform of the All Progressive Congress (APC) over the leadership crisis in the party . Recall that the build-up to the APC primary elections in Edo State had sparked a leadership crisis culminating in a battle for leadership of the party after the suspension of the party‘s national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. The crisis also saw to the defection of Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Speaking to State House correspondents after the meeting , chairman of the Progressive Governors forum and Kebbi State Governor , Atiku Bagudu said they presented the position of the progressive governors to the president on ways to resolve the crisis . The governor was accompanied to the meeting by his Jigawa counterpart, Abubakar Badaru and Pleateau State Governor, Simon Lalong. He said “the reason for our visit is to discuss with him as our party leader as the leader that millions of Nigerians trust, to discuss party issues and the position of the Progressive Governors to support all steps to unify and bring about peaceful resolution in our party, the All Progressives Congress . “Mr. President listened attentively and discussed with us as a father, as a party leader and he gave us all the assurance we needed to know that resolution of contentious issues will soon be arrived at. The Kebbi Governor also hinted that the party may convene a National Executive Committee( NEC) to resolve the crisis in the party. Bagudu also explained reasons why the President was not constantly intervening in the affairs of the party saying he does not run the party . According to him , the party is never a perfect assembly saying there will always be issues . He explained “At all times Mr. President has shown that he is a democrat, he is not running the party. Yes, he is the party leader, he allows party organs to do and decide what should be done. He is very hesitant to use his standing even as party leader, talk less of his authority as Mr. President of the country to direct things, but at all times, he has been alive to the issue. “Like I said earlier, I believe with the encouragement he gave us this morning, with the level of details he has about all what is happening and the number of people he has listened to and heard. “I believe that whatever needs to be done including the possibility of calling any of the organs of the party that is necessary for the resolution of lingering issues will be done immediately. “Let me again that the party is never a perfect assembly. There will always be issues and that is why we talk, but yes certainly, organs of the party needs to meet and Mr. President without directing is always supporting the necessity of party organs meeting appropriately. On the removal and replacement of the party’s Deputy National Secretary and the protest at the headquarters of the party y, he said people are allowed to air dissenting views . He said the APC is a party that believes in dialogue adding that “contentious issues arise when you are dialoguing and we will recall that because of the sanctity which President Buhari attaches to constitutionalism. “We held our national convention literally at the same time we are holding primaries because Mr. President has always said that we told Nigerians that our party is going to be a party of due process and we will do that no matter the challenge of the moment. “So, young people expressing their views by demonstrating, members of the party challenging court processes shows that the people are free to express their views. And dissent is not to be suppressed. What is important is that all will be taken on board in arriving at a conclusion that will be to the satisfaction of most party members and indeed Nigerians,” he added.