… records 33 new cases, 25th death With the rising number of confirmed cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in Edo, the state government has revved up efforts to curtail the spread of the infectious disease, visiting over 740 rural and urban communities for Active Case Search (ACS) activities and intensifying the decontamination of homes and offices of about 462 confirmed cases in the state. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who spoke to journalists in Benin City, said the state has recorded 33 new cases, one more COVID-19 related death and discharged one more patient who has tested negative for the virus. Okundia said Edo has so far recorded 462 confirmed cases, 3503 suspected cases, 1589 line-listed contacts, 346 persons of interest (POIs) and discharged a total of 115 patients, noting that the remaining 322 active cases are being managed at various isolation centres in the state and are responding well to treatment. He reassured that the Governor Obaseki-led government remains resolute and committed to flattening the curve of the pandemic in the state, adding that the state has tested 3617 residents and is contact tracing about 1589 others who had various degrees of contact with confirmed cases. Okundia decried that the wrong addresses and phone numbers from residents during sample collection for testing was making it difficult for contact tracers to track down confirmed cases after laboratory results are released, adding that the government is working with state’s lab pillar to re-emphasize the importance of getting descriptive addresses and correct phone numbers. The commissioner added, “We urge you to comply with all government directives, aimed at ensuring the health and safety of all residents. Stay at home and observe social distancing and other precautionary measures against the spread of the disease, including regular handwashing with soap under running water, and use alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing. Also do well to report anyone with oversea travel history.”