…As Residents Blast Govt Of Failure To Sustain Water Storm Project Many residents of Benin City, the Edo State capital have been rendered homeless following the heavy down pour that lasted for several hours on Saturday. Our correspondent who went round to monitor situation in the capital city, reports that while several houses were submerged by the flood, several others were destroyed. While  only few part of the City was spared by the flood, the areas worst hit however includes several parts of the Government Reserve Area (GRA), 1st East Circular, Akenwan road, Sakponba road, Erediauwa, off Sapele road, Okhoro as well as Ugbowo areas of the city. Aside the destruction of the rampaging flood and destruction and submerging of houses, several cars were also destroyed by the flood. Several residents who are still busy scooping water from their homes, have continued to lament the destruction of their properties by the flood. Some of the victims of the flood who spoke  painted a gloomy future if they are not assisted by the government to recover some of their losses. Isaac Ighodalo, said the effect of the flood witnessed on Saturday could have been minimal if Obaseki had continued with water storm erosion control project. “We have lost many properties in this flood. Look at my house I build with my pension all taken over by flood. I don’t know why the water storm project started by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole was abandoned. If this project was sustained we won’t be in the mess” Moses Izekor,  on his part while describing the situation as pathetic, said they were renders hopeless as they watch flood completely submerged their house and destroyed properties. Izekor who is resident around Erediauwa, off Sapele road, blamed the flood in the area to the newly constructed road without proper channeling of the water. “When this road was being constructed, we complained about the way the channeling of the flood was being carried out but nobody listened to us. This is just about the first heavy rain this year and see what we are already experiencing,” he stated. Also Uwadiac Osagie, a resident of Edosonwan around Ugbor, GRA, said they resident of the area were all trapped in their homes by the flood. He said if not for the intervention of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), who came to their rescue, they would now have been narrating different story. The situation was not any different with Mr Osazuwa Ighodaro around Erie, off Sakponba road, whose building caved in under the impact of the flood. However, the government has attributed the flood witness in the city on Saturday to non adherence to building regulation and also indiscriminate dumping of refuse on drainage. Mr Yakubu Gowon, Special Adviser on Speicial Duties to the Governor, stated this while going round too access the level of damage occasioned by the flood. According to him, “These are the things the governor has always emphasised; that we obey building regulations and stopped indiscriminate waste disposal. “We need to help ourselves because he government is doing a lot to ensure the city is rid of flooding incident.” 