…As Host Communities Kick Against Threat To Disrupt Delivery Pipeline Leaders of Oil rich community of Trans Forcados Pipeline, TFP, yesterday expressed gratitude to the Chairman and management of Ocean Marine Solution, OMS, Captain Hosa Okunbor, for engaging over 820 indigenes of the community in the surveillance of (TFP), line across communities in Delta state. The leaders while condemning the activities of a faceless group, threatening to disrupt flow in delivery pipeline, urged the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to beam in search light on their activities to avoid any economic loss to the nation. While backing the operations of OMS, the leaders of the communities, Mr Ete Omatsuji, and Mr Jonah Akpofure, on behalf of others  said the activities of OMS in the area had brought about peace and development in the riverine areas. The leaders said that the development had entrenched peace in the riverine communities, adding that the public should disregard the misleading publications by some “faceless organisations” in the social media against the company. “TFP is owned by Shell and it runs across communities in Ughelli North, Ughelli South, Okpe, Uvwie, Warri South, Warri South-West and terminates at the Forcados River Manifold in Burutu Local Government Area. “All the undersigned Presidents-General, leaders of the TFP and host Communities have been drawn to misleading publications by some faceless organisations in the social media over the management of the TFP surveillance job by OMS. “We make bold to affirm that the reports are based on selfish interest and designed to cause disaffection and crisis in the peaceful riverine communities in Delta. “For the avoidance of doubt, OMS has engaged about 820 persons on surveillance of TFP through the duly elected Community Presidents General, youth leaders and elders in the host Communities,” the leaders said. They said that the enabling environment enjoyed by the company had transcended into increased production. The leaders commended the Chairman of OMS, Mr Hosa Okunbo, for the good work and urged the Federal Government and other relevant stakeholders to support the company. 