The Northern Ireland Academy for International Science has officially launched a branch in Abuja. The Academy will run in partnership with the National Centre for Technology Management (NACETEM), an Agency of the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, Nigeria. The Academy which is the country’s first private international Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicine (STEMM) was declared opened on Tuesday in Abuja by AISR’s Director of Business and Curriculum Development, Prince Adeniyi Enero John Founded by Professor Dr. Terence McIvor,  the AISR was established in response to a clear market need to address the decline in the interest, enjoyment and uptake of STEMM subjects among young people. Speaking at the launch, the Director of Business and Curriculum Development, AISR, Prince Adeniyi Enero John said the institute’s classes and courses will open up a whole new spectrum of opportunities in areas such as gamification, animation, Medical Science, app development, data science, media, cyber security, ethical hacking or pioneering the way in artificial intelligence among others. He stated that AISR Africa will confer Degree’s Masters, PhDs, Diplomas and Advanced Diplomas accredited by Manipur International University of Excellence and the European Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment Standards Office. According to him, “All our programmes are hands on, favour practical applications and have been designed to reflect the needs and requirements of professional organisations. “It is different because it offers more meaningful teaching approaches to students, is great for career preparation and also of immense value in plugging the skills gap for business. Earlier, CEO and Chairman of AISR International Group, Prof. Dr. Terence McIvor, explained that the institute’s study programmes are regulated and accredited by the Manipur International University, the International University of Excellence (MIU) and the European Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment Standards Office. “AISR have developed and will deliver new, International and truly global study programmes and initiatives, that will help to educate and upskill the talent of the future, and presents a persuasive case to students about the multiple benefits associated with studying STEMM. “I am very proud to open our African office in Abuja, the Corporate Head Office is located in the historic city of Derry~Londonderry, (Northern Ireland) and AISR’s new Clarendon Street campus offers local, national and international students vocational training to the highest standards (technical professional level)”, he said. Furthermore, the Chief Operation Officer,  AISR, Zita Bertha said: “I am so excited about AISR developing a skilled workforce across Nigeria and Africa as a whole, which has been highlighted as a major necessity in developing Africa’s economy with performance of STEMM subjects playing a vital role to the overall health and wealth of African society.” “It has been my ambition for some time now to bring this intervention to market because I believe STEMM is of immense importance in driving our economic ambitions, supporting innovation and providing the foundation for future prosperity.” Said Prof. Dr. McIvor. Central to the AISR offer and enabled by digital innovation; it was Prof. Dr McIvor’s vision to break down geographical barriers by exporting STEMM courses of high educative and economic value to enhance the progression of student education throughout the world and in particular Nigeria and Africa as a whole. The Director-General/CEO of the National Centre for Technology Management, Engr (Prof) Okechukwu Ukwuoma commended Prof McIvor and Prince John for tackling the international marketplace. In the same vein, the Head, Technology Management and Training Department, NACETEM  Dr Maruf Orewole, expressed the readiness of the Agency to make the partnership a success. Dr Orewole said that “Given the array of top-notch professionals and experienced researchers at NACETEM, the partnership will not only fly but also be a resounding success”. With AISR Africa now officially open for business, it will be reaching out to local school leavers, students wishing to enter higher education, those looking for highly skilled jobs and life-long learners, encouraging them to study STEMM in new and innovative ways and through partnerships to open up new entry points to industry, commerce and business. It promises to provide students a first-class education with expert tutors offering blended learning; an engaging mix of traditional (classroom) and non-traditional (online and interactive) teaching methods to excite and ignite curiosity in STEMM subjects. The Chancellor of Manipur International University, Professor Dr. Hari Kumar Palladhadka said: “We are proud to have AISR as a constituent Polytechnic College of Manipur International University (MIU). “AISR is fully recognised by Manipur International University to deliver Degrees, Masters and PhDs. The final Degree award will be conferred by MIU. I am excited to see AISR Nigeria opening today in Abuja. I am confident AISR will be a Centre of Excellence for STEMM across other countries  in Africa, delivering a high-class education through the use of innovative teaching technologies”. 