The coordinator of National Assembly matters to the governor of Niger State,  Alhaji Shaba Isah Ibn Bello, and the permanent secretary, Ministry of planning, are dead. The secretary to the Niger State government, Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, made the announcement yesterday. He said: “With total submission to the will of Allah (SWT), His Excellency, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, governor of Niger State, condoles with the people of the state on the death of his coordinator, National Assembly matters;  former chairman, Katcha local government; former member, Niger State House of Assembly; and former member, House of Representatives, representing Bida, Gbako and Katcha Federal Constituency, Abuja; a said event which occurred in Minna, on Saturday, 20th June 2020, after a brief illness.” He said: “The Government and people of Niger State feel deeply pained by the death of our brother and gentleman, but we are comforted that late Shaba Isah Ibn Bello left an indelible mark in the sands of time.” “We accept the fact that death is a necessary end for all mortals. He lived an exemplary and most inspiring life; he motivated and touched so many lives in so many places, now he’s suddenly gone!  We testify to his patriotic tendencies and excellent handling of administrative and legislative duties concerning the people of Niger State and Nigerians. Posterity will definitely honour and acknowledge him better,” the SSG added. He prayed that Allah (SWT) should grant the soul of the deceased Aljannah Firdausi and give his family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Similarly, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello has expressed sadness over the death of Malam Usman Musa Dallau, permanent secretary, Niger State Planning Commission. In his condolence message signed by his chief press secretary, Mrs Mary Noel-Berje, the governor described late Musa Dallau as a hardworking, selfless, dedicated and passionate personality whose values will be greatly remembered. “The late permanent secretary, Planning Commission, had a progressive public service career, having reached the pinnacle of civil service in the state.  I am deeply saddened by his demise, but consoled that the deceased lived a good life and contributed his best to the service of Niger State and humanity,” the governor said. He prayed Almighty Allah (SWT) to forgive the shortcomings of the departed and make Al-jannah Firdausi his final abode, as well as give his family, friends and staff of the State Planning Commission the fortitude to bear the  loss. Usman Musa Dallau died at the age of 56 in Minna after a brief illness. Until his demise, he was a sitting traditional title holder, the Dagacin Nasarawa Kainji, and a serving permanent secretary at the State Planning Commission. 