The Violence Against People Prohibition (VAPP) Bill has passed second reading at the Bauchi State House of Assembly. The bill which is sponsored and presented by the Speaker of the Assembly Hon. Abubakar Y Suleiman seeks to eliminate violence in private and public life; prohibit all forms of violence, including physical, sexual, psychological, domestic, harmful traditional practices for victims of such incidences. The bill also seeks to provide maximum protection and effective remedies for victims and punishment of offenders. The Speaker while leading the debate on the motion relegated his position for his Deputy, Hon. Danlami Ahmed Kawule to preside the plenary. Hon. Suleiman who lamented on what he called “ugly events currently happening in the country and particularly Bauchi State in which violence against persons mostly in the form of rape and other domestic violence on both women, men and children are becoming the order of the day” vows to end the anomalies through effective legislation. The Speaker who cited cases of different rape incidences in different parts of the country including Bauchi State says the Assembly will not fold its arms and allow the ugly incidences linger. “My Honourable Colleagues, these and many more other ugly cases are happening within and around the State. “Unfortunately, some or most of the culprits go unpunished. “They raped and also killed their victims. “How many more girls need to die this way? We cannot continue this way. “We cannot continue to look away and ignore these murders. “This is insane. “This is the time for us to do something tangible to provide adequate and serious protection for the vulnerable members of our societies against violence”, the Speaker said. He said the assembly is duty bound to do something that will protect and defend the people. “It is against this background that I crave for your indulgence to support me in the successful passage of this very important bill into law”, he said. After brief debate on the bill which the members unanimously commended, it passed first and second reading. The House also referred the bill to House Committee on Women Affairs for further legislative processes.