The burial arrangements for former Oyo State governor and deputy national chairman (South) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sen. Abiola Ajimobi, has been released. He will be buried on Sunday. A statement by the party’s special adviser on strategy and communication, Bolaji Tunji, said details of the funeral ceremony of the former governor was released by the family. It said on close consultation with the governments of Lagos and Oyo states, the date for the burial ceremony had been announced. “Barring any changes, his body will be interred at the Sen. Ishaq Abiola Ajimobi Central Mosque at Oke Ado, Ibadan at 12noon on Sunday, June 28, 2020, after the traditional Muslim prayers. “To ensure that strict COVID-19 protocols are adhered to and in light of the current circumstances of our national health challenges, the family appeals to the public to observe strict adherence to the protocols in their participation. “Furthermore, details of the live media coverage of the funeral ceremony will be made public by tomorrow. “In the near future, details of a larger funeral gathering will be announced where a lot more of his well- wishers will have the opportunity to pay him their respect,” it said. Meanwhile, the Olubadan of Ibadan Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji and prominent politicians including former Gov. Rashidi Ladoja and Alhaji Sharafadeen Alli, a former secretary to the state government have joined in mourning the death of former governor. Oba Adetunji, in a statement, yesterday, prayed for the soul of the deceased to rest in perfect peace. “Our hearts go to his immediate family, especially Chief Mrs. Florence Ajimobi and the children. It is our prayer that Almighty Allah would give all his friend and relatives the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss,” the statement said. Also, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has commiserated with the family of the immediate past Governor of Oyo State, whose transition took place in Lagos after his unsuccessful battle with COVID-19. The president of the CAN, Rev. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP Weekend, yesterday, in Abuja, said with a heavy heart, the association also commiserates with the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the very painful loss.