Ahead of the forthcoming governorship elections in  Edo and Ondo States, a strong wind of defection is blowing in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), TOPE FAYEHUN writes. In Nigerian contest, politics of carpet-crossing has become the norm and what the politicians cannot do without whenever any election is approaching. The phenomenon has become an undying feature of Nigeria’s party politics. Those who indulge in defection, the act always use it to launch a new strategy, negotiate and as a tool to deepen the country’s democracy and deliver more democratic dividends, according to most of them. Some analysts opined that the circumstances and excuses for party defection in a multiparty democracy have remained the same, but choosing the election time to decamp to another political party is always strategic and dynamic. This, perhaps, according to pundits, explains why the country’s democracy and development have been more of notions than actions. Immediately the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) fixed September 19 and October 10 for the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States, respectively, politicians in both states went back to the drawing board and started new arrangements ahead of the poll. Presently, the governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, has resigned his membership of the ruling APC, due to what some analysts described as irreconcilable differences between him and his one time godfather, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Also in Ondo State, the speculation is rife that the incumbent Deputy Governor , Hon Alfred Agboola Ajayi is on his way out of the ruling APC to PDP. The movement of Agboola to the PDP has altered some political calculations in the state. Presently in Ondo State, if the crisis in APC is not properly handled, it may spell doom for the party in the state, as the opposition, PDP is waiting in the wings to harvest those that may opt out of the APC after the primaries. The case of Edo State is slightly different as Obaseki, who was one time a political godson to the suspended National Chairman of APC was disqualified from participating in the June 22 governorship primary of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Although, Obaseki’s disqualification didn’t come to pundits as a surprise because of the cold war between him and Oshiomhole, the verdict of the Prof Ayuba Jonathan-led screening committee that disqualified him was just the last nail to his second term ambition coffin in APC. The crisis between the duo started during the Edo State delegates congress of APC in 2018, when the former governor, who had just resumed as national chairman,  used all his political strength to ensure that his loyalists emerged at the congress. It was learnt that Obaseki who was just two years in office then, was not allowed to input his own loyalists during the Congress and decided to also retaliate when it was time to proclaim the 8th Edo State House of Assembly. Obaseki, a student of politics under Oshiomhole, played a fast game by dribbling his former master’s loyalists to ensure the emergence of Francis Okiye as Speaker, instead of Oshiomhole’s preferred candidate. The hide and seek game between the duo over the constitution of the Assembly and configuration of its leadership, threw up the simmering disaffection between the political godfather and his political godson. Every attempt by the suspended national chairman of APC to muscle his 14 loyal members-elect into the Assembly through the contrived take over of the legislature by the National Assembly, was resisted by the governor and his deputy, Philip Shuaibu. The ruling of the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt, Rivers State also gave Obaseki confidence to continue resisting the pressure on him to issue another proclamation that could have enabled a united Assembly and a repeat election of principal officers. In what could be described as political banishment, the 14 lawmakers-elect loyal to Oshiomhole were forced to relocate to Abuja, where they had remained for the past 11 months at his expense and members of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM). Before the last straw of Obaseki’s disqualification, there have been efforts by concerned stakeholders in the party and the state to resolve the unending rift between the two but those efforts have yielded no positive results. Even, Aliko Dangote, a friend to duo, had intervened many times and President Buhari also delegated the Kaduna State governor, Nasir El’Rufai, to reconcile the two warring parties, but to no avail. The crisis came to a head last week when Oshiomhole allegedly supervised disqualification of Obaseki from the forthcoming primary election of the party. Before the out of the screening exercise, Obaseki had prophecy that he may not get the ticket of the party under Oshiomhole’s chairmanship and the prophecy came to pass less than 24 hours after the screening exercise. Obaseki was disqualified by the screening committee of the APC following alleged discrepancies in his academic results. Few hours after that, the governor announced his resignation from APC. Obaseki who announced his resignation from APC at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, however, dismissed allegations that his credentials were fake. Obaseki said, “I have now decided, formally, to resign my membership of the All Progressives Congress. Having done that, I will now announce in the next few days my specific line of action and what platform I will be contesting the gubernatorial election on”. Reacting to the statement of Oshiomhole that incumbency would not be a factor in the coming election, Obaseki said: “Time will tell. Let us go to the poll and Nigerians will see. ” Speaking on his chances to win the poll, he said, “I’m sure if you’ve scanned the environment, you’ve scanned the media, you’ve scanned social media, the reaction from people across the world, particularly (the people of) Edo at home and in the Diaspora, the support they have for me has been unbelievable. They’ve said to me, ‘wherever you go, we will go.’ Similarly, the deputy governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, also resigned from the APC. Shaibu, in a letter addressed to the chairman, APC Ward 11, Etsako West Local Government, Edo State, said the resignation was with immediate effect. Barring any last minute change, Governor Obaseki will jump ship to the PDP, multiple sources at the party’s secretariat and around the governor have said. Multiple sources informed LEADERSHIP Sunday that the governor’s fate has been determined by governors elected on the platform of the PDP, stakeholders in the Edo State chapter of the party and other critical stakeholders. The source who chose anonymity said, “I want all stakeholders of the party to understand that Obaseki’s defection would increase the chances of the party winning the 2023 presidential election. His coming is a big plus to PDP. We can’t allow this opportunity to pass us by.” Meanwhile, in Ondo State, the Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi has  concluded his movement plans from the ruling APC to the PDP in the state. Like what happened in Edo State, there has been a cold war between Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and Agboola Ajayi for some months now. The crisis escalated in the last few weeks when the state Commissioner of Information, Donald Ojogo, alleged that it was Agboola Ajayi who was responsible for the marginalisation being experienced by the Ijaw people in the southern part of the state. Although the duo have not come forward to make any altercation that could confirm that there is truly a serious gulf between them, but the camp of the governor led by Ojogo had continued to attack the Deputy Governor. It was gathered that despite the intervention of Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and other chieftains of the party, the face-off lingered on. When the centre could no longer hold, Agboola finally decided to go back to his former party, PDP, to contest the forthcoming governorship primary election of the party. However, his plan of defection has continued to generate ripples from other aspirants of the party. While some of them said his defection would add value to the party, some said his coming may cause crisis in the party. A leading aspirant for the forthcoming primary election of the party, Eyitayo Jegede, declared that his purported defection to PDP would boost the chances of the party. Jegede, who was PDP candidate in the 2016 governorship election in the state, noted that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) would collapse if the deputy governor eventually dumps the party to join forces with the PDP in the October 10, 2020 governorship election in the state. According to him, “If APC was and is good, Agboola Ajayi would not have left the party. And if the PDP was and is bad, he would not say he is coming to join it. So, the fact that he is leaving and he is interested in coming to the PDP has demonstrated again that the APC is collapsed and he (Ajayi) needs to look for a good house. “He has found out that PDP is a good house. So, he is welcome because we are looking for people. The party’s constitution is very clear. He would go to his ward and register. “He will go to the National Working Committee (NWC) and seek for waiver. When he finishes with that, he will come here and pay administrative charges and when he is done with that, he will pay for a nomination form if he wants to contest. “When he is done with that, he will now go and campaign and explain to the people what he is bringing afresh to the PDP and the electoral delegates will decide who will fly the flag of the party.” On whether Jegede is stepping down for Agboola in the forthcoming primary election, Jegede described the report titled – PDP gives deputy governor another condition, as a product of a wicked figment of the writer’s imagination. In the statement signed by his campaign Organisation, the former Commissioner noted that he does not intend, either now or in the future to become a deputy to Ajayi. According to him, “The fake story, where a reference was also made to an unknown southwest officer of the party is nothing but a product of a wicked figment of the writer’s imagination.” Jegede said, “We take note of the attempt to misinform the general public and create acrimony within our party and urge all members to disregard the fictitious and maliciously intentioned story. “Our party remains committed and has assured all aspirants of free and fair primaries. Therefore, our principal and gubernatorial aspirants will participate in the primaries with the full intention of winning and leading the party into victory at the polls. “We know the source of the story and we have chosen to ignore them as we keep towards ensuring the victory of our aspirant and party in the next election.”