An African based information technology firm, West Blue Consulting has developed an app called Epidemic Response Hub on behalf of the government of Ekiti State, to help in the fight against coronavirus (COVID-19). The app is a public health surveillance tool that monitors disease outbreak and disseminates geospatial information to both policy makers and the general public, with the aim of curbing the spread of diseases. Sponsored by the government of Ekiti State to combat the spread of COVID-19, the platform enables real time capture, storage and analysis of public health data such as the location and current occupancy rates of medical facilities, interactive maps showing exactly where outbreaks have occurred, as well as real-time contact tracing. The hub was launched by the governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, at the height of the outbreak and has since enabled public health officials in the state to successfully monitor and manage the spread of the coronavirus in Ekiti State and environs, while enabling the citizens and residents to access critical healthcare information. Through the platform, which is accessible via internet enabled device, members of the public can report suspected cases, as well as self-diagnose using the hub’s self-assessment tool. It also includes a gateway through which users can make donations in support of humanitarian causes. Founder of West Blue Consulting, Ms Valentina Mintah, said the app, “Includes a social mobilisation tool that allows members of the public to donate funds and goods to entities distributing aid and resources to those most in need. that enables state officials and the public to work closely to prevent the spread of the disease, and protect society’s most vulnerable.” The hub also enables traders and retailers to apply for official permits to re-open stores selling essential goods. Applicants are then provided with a code that can be verified by authorized persons when conducting safety checks. CEO of West Blue Consulting, Mark Addo, added: “The Epidemic Response Hub is the first-of-its-kind in West Africa, and has been developed to support the response to highly contagious diseases such as Lassa fever, cholera, measles, Ebola and the novel COVID-19 disease.