Ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primaries for the Edo State governorship election, a political group Edo State PDP Justice Network (ESPJN) and PDP Integrity Watch (PIW) have called on the leadership of the party to avert a repeat of nullification of the governor-elect victory over alleged certificate forgery verdict in Bayelsa polls in Edo state. LEADERSHIP reports that some members of the party from Edo State filed a petition on the validity of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) certificate and alleged irregularities in certificates of the two aspirants. However, two of the aspirants, Mr Gideon Ikhine and Hon Ogbeide Ihama were physically present for the exercise while Mr Kenneth Imansuangbon was screened virtually since he was outside the country. A copy of the petition sighted by LEADERSHIP signed by the national coordinator, ESPJN, Joseph Orirhewo sent to the Edo State Governorship Appeal Committee, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), noted that Mr Ogbeide Omorogie Anthony Ihama should be disqualified from contesting the PDP primaries for the forthcoming governorship election in Edo state over alleged multiple names in his certificate. Orirhewo in the petition also alleged inconsistencies in documents presented by the aspirants during the screening process. The national coordinator of the group insisted that those who have issues with their credentials must not be allowed to contest as they don’t want what happened in Bayelsa to repeat itself in Edo state. The group also insisted that they will pursue the case to the highest level to ensure that the Edo state PDP field people with proven integrity in the September election. The petition reads in part: ‘’In line with the core mandate of PDP that we write to you this petition in relation to the forthcoming primaries of our great party in Edo state for the governorship election slated for September 2020 haven watched keenly the various aspirants jostling for the coveted number one seat to avoid a looming pitfall. ‘’It is therefore on this note that we hereby bring to the attention of this noble Appeal Committee of our great party not to accept and/or screen the aspirant certificate Mr. Ogbeide Omorogie Anthony Ihama for possessing for multiple/inconsistent names.’’ 