The Federal Government has tasked the Defence Space Agency (DSA) to deploy technology in the fight against Insurgency and banditry. The Minister of Defence Maj. Gen Bashir Salihi Magashi (Rtd) gave the charge in a message at the inauguration of projects at Defence Space Administration in Abuja. He said the federal government is desirous of acquiring more Space Science Technological assets to give the nations Armed Forces competitive edge in the global arena. In a statement by the Special Assistant to the Minister, Mohammed Abdulkadir, the Defence Minister who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defence Sab’iu Zakari described the Cyber Space as the fourth domain of warfare. He reiterated that the uncompromising posture of President Muhammadu Buhari to transform the nations Armed Forces is anchored on three pillars of capacity building, restructuring and personnel welfare. He said the realisation of the President Buhari’s determination to improve the productivity of the Armed Forces informed the proper funding of the Defence space Administration through budgetary allocations since 2015 to date. “The Defence Minister challenged the leadership of the Defence Space Administration to deploy required Technological expertise to effectively support the ongoing anti banditry, counter-terrorism and anti-insurgency operations in parts of the country especially now that the federal government is strategizing and promoting synergy among various agencies and the tri-services to end the impunity of the bandits operating in parts of the country”, he said The Chief of Defence Space Administration Maj Gen Emmanuel George Whyte said the DSA Act of 2016 empowers the Management to pursue Cyber Security operations in line with its mandate. Major General Whyte while conducting the Minister round the highly restricted operational Centre for on the spot assessment of the technological space assets said the projects are targeted at creating a condusive working environment for the Military and Civilian personnel of the DSA. The Defence Space Administration was established on 9th October, 2014 with a Mission to support the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies with relevant space products and solution necessary for the conduct of operations in peace and wartime in line with the National Space policy and programmes. 