TEXT: HEBREWS 13:8 Hebrews 13:8 Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever. This text is talking about Jesus, the Son of God, our Saviour, and Redeemer. Born of Virgin Mary, there is no one like Him. He has the same authority and power as before even today. This same Saviour, Deliverer, Healer, is the same forever. As long as this world remains, as long as people seek, and call upon Him, He is still the same to do wonders:  Luke 4:18-21 18 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, 19 To preach the acceptable year of the Lord. 20 And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. 21 And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. There is good news for the poor who cannot pay for salvation, healing, freedom, and so much more, we will get all that we cannot pay for. God has given Jesus the power to give them to us all. Whatever the problem: spiritual, physical, domestic, etc. we have solution, whatever we have lost, all will come back to us. The dim and blind eyes will see clearly tonight. The only thing we need to do is look and focus on, eyes and soul centered on Him tonight, we will receive His best. What He said in the Synagogue years ago is what He is saying to us tonight: Luke 4:21 And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. All that Calvary provided to us are ours tonight. This day will not pass us by, we will tell our testimonies in Jesus name. Mark 7:37 And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak. Indeed, He has done all things well (Hallelujah!) Acts 10:38. God anointed Jesus Christ who went about doing good. There is no partiality, He does well for us all. He is ready to move mountains in our lives. This is not just a ministration, but a specific message directed at us tonight. Jesus will do us good.  In the past, people were looking for the Redeemer, but Job was so sure of his. In ch 19:25, he exclaimed: “For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:” As we are in the presence of God tonight, our miracle of redemption and other needs are very sure. Around Job in the time of his trials were “miserable counselors” but he was not swayed in his trust in his redeemer. Even with the loss of his health, children, business, everything, he was sure he would have full restoration. Ch 42:1,5. Initially, Job thought he would see Jesus and redemption from all his troubles at the future time, at the end of the age, but he got solution and answer to his requests immediately, much earlier than he expected. vs 10. Job got back double for all his losses. Proverbs 23:11. Christ, our Redeemer is mighty, He shall plead our cause with God. We will laugh over our enemies. Isaiah 63:16. The Jews may not know us, they may see us as gentiles, but God is our Father, He knows us and His name is from everlasting to everlasting. Luke 1:68-75. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel who has visited his people to save them from private, public, secret, and open conspiring enemies. He will bring them all down! Our fears are gone in Jesus name! Then we will serve God peacefully, in holiness and righteousness, all the days of our lives. We will be holier and purer than we have ever been by virtue of His work of total redemption. Amen. Galatians 3:13-14. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. All curses on our lives, families, businesses are neutralized in Jesus name! Amen! Colossians 1:13-14. We are delivered from the power of darkness. Everything that is contrary that our grandparents and parents are talking about is not our portion. When there is trouble, problems, pain, sorrow, the spiritual airplane flies us over them all, and land us in victory and success. Amen. Titus 2:11-14. The moment we embrace and take it, we receive the grace of God. Jesus gave Himself so that He might redeem us. Living a so-so life has come to an and tonight in Jesus name. Revival in your soul, spirit, body, family and business has come. The strength and power of God will carry you through. You will be zealous of all good works. Amen.  Everything we lost before now are fully restored tonight in Jesus name. Isaiah 57:18; 58:8-12; Jeremiah 30:17-22, restoration of health. The name and nature of the sickness do not bother or hinder God. He will heal all. When God says Yes, no one can say No. Internal and external wounds, ulcer wounds, operation wounds that refuse to heal, vomiting blood as a result of internal wounds, all dried up and healed in Jesus name! Isaiah 1:26. After God has visited us, we shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city. Full restoration is the portion of all of God’s children. We shall have all that we have lost in multiple measures. Joel 2:21-27; 32; 3:10; Obadiah vs 17. On mount Zion, which is here, in the presence of God shall be deliverance and holiness. We shall possess our possessions in Jesus name. All these great things are happening because of the work of redemption already completed in us.  The Lord will respond promptly to our needs tonight. The forgiveness and cleansing is now. II Corinthians 6:2 Acts 16:25. Suddenly, the answer to our prayers will come. The foundation of the problem and torment is shaken. Every bond and yoke is loosed. You cannot escape a miracle tonight. Amen.  Isaiah 65:24 We get what we request for IMMEDIATELY. While we are yet making our requests, the Lord will answer us. Amen. ch 33:24. None of us will ever say we are sick. Everyone is forgiven his or her iniquities. Acts 10:44. While we are still praying, the power of the Holy Ghost will fall upon us. Salvation and all miracles we are expecting will come down. Amen. Remember, Jesus the Healer, miracle worker, Redeemer and Restorer is the same yesterday, today and forever. Amen and Amen.