Governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu has advocated for an improvement in the nation’s style of politics and conducting elections. Ize-Iyamu in his Democracy Day message said in spite of over two decades of unbroken democracy, it was not yet Uhuru for Nigerians due to certain militating factors. He said; “As many have pointed out, it is not yet Uhuru for us. Certain challenges remain that have made it difficult for all Nigerians to enjoy the dividends of our democracy equally. Our elections and politics require obvious improvements to better reflect the will of the people, while governance still has a great distance to cover in addressing the challenges of economic inequality and social injustice made worse by a pandemic that brought the world to its knees. “Yet, in spite of these challenges, and without minimizing their impact and urgent need to proffer solutions to them, what we have achieved before must give us hope for what we can do tomorrow. In 2015, this nation, for the first time, recorded a transition of power from an incumbent government to the opposition. And since then, the winner of that election, President Muhammadu Buhari has made great strides in electoral reform, economic transformation, social welfare, and securing the lives of our people. We must keep faith in him even as we hope and demand greater dividends”. He said the attitude of Nigerians during the June 12, 1993 presidential election “was a fine expression of democracy and an unblemished display of our ability to adopt and embrace a unifying message of hope, even in the face of cynicism and great challenges”. “Today, over two decades on that journey, we look back and recount progresses made, obstacles that persist, and how we can further perfect our democracy. There couldn’t have been a better choice of a day to carry out these deep, and important, reflections than June 12. And by selecting this day and honoring the sacrifices of Chief MKO Abiola and other heroes, by challenging our nation to carry out these reflections against the background of the high – and low – points of June 12, President Buhari affirmed not only his commitment to democratic ideals without which true governance is impossible, he also showed loyalty to his message of being the President of all”, he added.