TARKAA DAVID in this report looks at the NAF drive, to emplace critical infrastructure in the Northwest region for enhancement of airpower employment. The military onslaught leading to the fall of Boko Haram terrorists’ empire in the North East gains more momentum and its potent spillover of terrorists to the Northwest and banditry activities, though several non-military approaches have been adopted to address the menace, it has defied several solutions hence the deployment of military personnel in the troubled states. The amnesty earlier granted to bandits in Katsina and Zamfara by the State Government has failed to yield results, as they have returned to the bushes unleashing terror on innocent citizens. Since these measures have been proven ineffective, the need for military action became necessary especially the employment of airpower for surveillance and bombardments. To further its aggressive efforts to rid the North West and the North Central States of armed banditry and other forms of criminality through timely employment of Air Power and air mobility of forces for the swift response, the NAF on 12 June, 2020, commissioned a Helipad at Katari Village in Kachia Local Government Area (LGA) of Kaduna State. According to the director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola the Helipad, along with its refueling facilities, was constructed by the NAF, in collaboration with the Kaduna State Government, to give the helicopter platforms operating along Abuja-Kaduna Highway and environs added endurance for efficient mission accomplishment. The commissioning of the Helipad at Katari village came up 24 hours after the commissioning of infrastructural facilities at 271 NAF Detachment Birnin Gwari, for the well-being of personnel at the forefront of prosecuting the war against banditry in the area. The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who was represented by the Air Officer Commanding Air Training Command (AOC ATC), Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Musa Muktar, at the ceremony disclosed that the Helipad was considered a necessary requirement for extending the NAF’s reach to enhance its Air Power projection in the North West and North Central Zones. He noted that the facility would add impetus to the Defence Headquarters (DHQ)-led joint Operation Thunder Strike and afford greater flexibility for all agencies involved, as the helicopters would no longer need to return to either Abuja or Kaduna before refueling. The CAS stated further that the location of the landing facility was carefully selected to complement the efforts of troops’ deployment thereby intensifying the provision of security to the locals and motorists. Speaking further, Air Marshal Abubakar noted that, since the establishment of the Operation Thunder Strike, over 4 months ago, the activities of kidnappers and bandits along Abuja-Kaduna Highway had reduced significantly. Speaking on the establishment of the Helipad, he stated that the NAF was even better positioned to more effectively deal with kidnappers and armed robbers along the Kaduna-Abuja Highway, as well as any other form of criminality within Kaduna State and its environs, working in synergy with sister services and other security agencies. He observed that the NAF’s air offensives in Katsina, Kaduna, Zamfara, Sokoto and Niger States, amongst others, had continued to add value to the current efforts at addressing insecurity issues in the North West and North Central Zones of the Country. The CAS, therefore, expressed the NAF’s profound gratitude to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari, for his unflinching support to the Service towards the achievement of its desired Air Power goals. He reiterated that the support was an indication that the whole nation stands by the NAF and other security agencies in the fight against terrorism and other forms of criminality. “Much as we have sacrificed, the Service remains propelled by the goodwill of the support of all well-meaning Nigerians, to do more in securing our Nation. We must, therefore, continue to give our best at all times”, he added. While appreciating the Kaduna State governor Mallam Nasiru El-Rufai for his constant support to the NAF’s operations, the CAS also commended the efforts of the AOC, officers, airmen and airwomen of ATC in ongoing operations in the Command’s Area of Responsibility. Earlier in his welcome address, the Command Operations Officer ATC, Air Commodore Nnaemeka Ilo, stated that the new Helipad, whilst serving as a base for Sector 2 of Operation Thunder Strike, would undoubtedly further boost the efforts in tackling insecurity in the area. He noted that the collective efforts of the Air and Ground Components of Operation THUNDER STRIKE, facilitated by the provision of timely intelligence from the public, had yielded tangible results thereby enabling safe passage of motorists along the Abuja-Kaduna Highway. “Since the inception of this Operation, our troops have succeeded in frustrating the efforts of the criminal elements. We are now adopting a new strategy of taking the fight to their various camps and not waiting for them to come to the main road before striking”, he said. In his remarks, the chairman Kachia LGA, Honourable Peter Agite, while commending the NAF leadership for its efforts in fighting insecurity, stated that the Helipad would go a long way in addressing security challenges not only along the Abuja-Kaduna-Kachia axis but also other parts of Kaduna State. He therefore, called on all members of the affected communities to cooperate with the NAF and other security agencies by providing useful and timely information. As technology continues to change the face of warfare, the NAF in order to boost the response capability of the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE to threats in Yobe State and its environs, established a virtual Forward Operating Base (FOB), with a helipad and refueling facilities in Damaturu, the State capital. The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, speaking during the commissioning on 25 May 2020, while on an inspection of the facilities in Damaturu appreciated Governor Buni for his personal commitment and tireless efforts that had facilitated the speedy execution of the helipad project. He noted that the enhancement of NAF facilities in Damaturu would reduce reaction time and ensure greater effectiveness and efficiency in mission accomplishment. He said the facility would even make it easier for the ATF to sustain the surveillance of the Maiduguri – Damaturu Highway which had brought some level of succour to commuters. The CAS added that the NAF, working in synergy with sister Services and other security agencies, would maintain the tempo of operations with a view improving security in Yobe State. In his remarks, the Yobe State Governor, Honourable Mai Mala Buni, who later accompanied the CAS on the inspection of the helipad, commended the NAF and the ATF for their immense contributions towards ensuring a gradual return to normalcy in the State. In his remarks at Government House Damaturu before the inspection, Governor Buni said the fact that the Eid-el-Fitr celebrations were marked in relative peace was as a result of the bravery and commitment of NAF pilots who not only conduct daring air raids on terrorists’ locations to destroy their facilities and neutralise their fighters, but also respond speedily to distress calls to support their comrades fighting on land when locations in the State are under attack. He said Yobe State would remain indebted to the NAF for such commitment and would, therefore continue to support all initiatives of the Service to enhance its capacity to respond to any threat in the State. Governor Buni equally thanked the CAS for his support in the realisation of the Damaturu International Cargo Airport project, which he said would witness its first test flight on Friday, 29 May 2020.