Muyiwa Oyinlola, in this report writes on the intrigues and politicking in the Lagos House of Assembly and the implications. Expectedly, as it was from beginning of Nigerian politics, so it seems today. In the game of politics, there must be allegation, and counter- allegation substantiated or not, then, in Nigerian context, politicians are genuinely playing politics. In Lagos House of Assembly recently, there was the same scenario among the lawmakers. In what politicians refer to as a game, the politicking nearly scattered the House if not for the wisdom applied by the members. Relieve however, came to camp  and supporters of the Lagos House of Assembly Speaker, Rt. Hon. (Dr.) Mudashiru Obasa,  when members of the House passed a vote of confidence on his leadership and absolved him of any allegation. The members last two weeks back, after presentation of the report of a nine-man fact-finding committee of the House on allegations of corruption levelled against the speaker by an online publication constituted a committee headed by Hon Victor Akande (Ojo constituency 1). The committee during plenary, submitted that all the allegations were frivolous and that the Speaker followed due process in all his dealings since he emerged as the Speaker of the House. The publication had alleged that Obasa has 64 accounts with banks with different names. The online platform also alleged that the Speaker has unilaterally approved expenditure for programmes and activities in the House, and spent N258 million to print invitation cards for the inauguration of the 9th Assembly. Apart from that, Obasa was also alleged to have received N80 million as estacode and his wife was also alleged to have collected N10 million from the House on a monthly basis. There were also reports that the House purchased 11 Hiace buses as well as 80 cars for the lawmakers within a year without following due process. Admittedly, this is not strange in Nigerian politics, but when the House got wind of these allegations, the members hurriedly constituted a committee to go into proper investigation of all levelled against the Speaker. The House gave the committee a matching order that the clerk of the House must begin the process of investigation. Part of the committee’s recommendation after the investigation was that all activities of the House should be digitalised for proper record keeping and monitoring. Then committee, after absolving Obasa of any wrong doing, later passed a vote of confidence on him having realised that the allegations against him are all false. The motion for the vote of confidence was moved by Hon Setonji David (Badagry 2)and adoption of the recommendation of the committee, which was latter supported by Hon. Temitope Adewale (Ifako Ijaiye 2). Few minutes later, the whole House agreed with the recommendations after putting it on a voice vote conducted by the Majority Leader of the House, Hon Sanni Agunbiade, who acted as the Speaker during the sitting. Prior to this adoption, the committee chairman, Hon Victor Akande, in his report had surmarised the findings and stated that the House was concerned about the damaging allegations against the Speaker by the said publication. Akande said the 9-man adhoc committee was constituted by the House to investigate the allegations made against him. Members of the committee include Hon Yinka Ogundimu (Agege 2), Hon Gbolahan Yishawu (Eti Osa 2), Hon Lukmon Olumoh (Ajeromi Ifelodun 1) and Hon Ajani Owolabi (Lagos Mainland 1). Others are Hon Mojisola Alli-Macaulay (Amuwo Odofin 1), Hon. Rotimi Olowo (Shomolu 1) and Hon. Akeem Shokunle (Oshodi/Isolo 1). The committee, Hon Victor said, was mandated to invite the medium and others to prove their allegations against the Speaker. He said, “The committee started sitting on Thursday 4th June, 2020 and we also sat on Friday 5th June and Saturday 6th June. “Sahara Reporters, Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA), Budgit, Concerned Nigerians, Independent Diaspora Nigerians Against Corruption, Mr Bayo Oluwasanmi of Sahara Reporters, but they did not honour the invitation,” he said, while narrating how banks were also invited. The committee also stated that it found out that the purchase of vehicles for the lawmakers were ratified by the Fund Management Committee (FMC) of the House in both the 8th and 9th Assemblies. It was also revealed that the purchase of Toyota Prado and Land Cruiser cars for members were approved by the FMC and the Lagos State Public Procurement Agency (PPA). His words :“The purchase of operational vehicles for members of the 9th Assembly was approved by the FMC members.The purchase of 36 Toyota Prado and 6 Land Cruisers were budgeted for and approved by the PPA. The allegations of spending N64 Million for social media influencers was not true. “The USA trip was attended. Only eight Hiace Buses were purchased for committee works and staff buses. Contrary to the claim of N258 million spent for printing invitation cards for the inauguration for 9th assembly as only N61 million was spent for the event and N1.1 for invitation cards. “The facility management company in the House does not belong to the Speaker. The alleged N10 million paid to the speaker’s wife is not true.” However, virtually all the members of the House have always commended the good strides of Obasa as the Speaker of the House for his sterling performance since his assumption of office. Some of them said his efforts in leading the implementation Committee of Speakers for the noble achievement in the path of Legislature in the Country, can never be forgotten. At their sitting recently, Hon Noheem Adams, Deputy Majority Leader of the House, noted that the effort of the Federal Government is to strengthen democracy through the implementation of financial autonomy for State Legislature and the Judiciary. While allaying the fears of the State Governors that the autonomy is to fortify the principle of separation of powers and ensure true independence of the three arms of government in the Federation. He further spoke on the notable achievements of the Speaker, “You have made history and your name is invoked in today’s democracy in all the States of the Federation for your laudable achievements and in the move towards the implementation of financial autonomy for the Legislature and Judiciary,” he said. Other members also voiced support for the Speaker and other parties involved in the passage of the Executive Order. Hon Tunde Braimoh stressed that the financial autonomy has ensured that the Legislative arm of government is equipped with the wherewithal to achieve their oversight functions. Also, Hon Rasheed Makinde emphasised that the autonomy shows democracy is coming of age and it recognises the Legislature and Judiciary as well. “The fact that we have been given the autonomy does not mean we want to engage in power tussle with the Executive, but share financial independence in line with tenets of democracy,” he said. Contributing to the performance of Obasa, Hon Rotimi Olowo noted that over the years, the public perception towards government has mostly encompassed the Executive without giving cognizance to the Judiciary and Legislature despite being the representatives of the people. However, the autonomy has put the other arms of government on the map. “Thank you Mr Speaker for your doggedness and resolve at ensuring that this happens, we cannot do that without also thanking Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for endorsing you. Asiwaju has spotted out someone who has the resolve to push matters and the Governors should not see this as a form of opposition or diminishing of power but a move to ensure that the three arms of government work together independently and interdependently without any sentiment or rancor,” reiterated. Reacting, Rt Hon Obasa stressed that the Executive should not see this as a sign of confrontation or means to whittle down their power, but will still maintain their title as Heads of Government. The House therefore resolves to write commendation letters to His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, the Senate, House of Representatives, Nigerian Governor’s Forum, Attorney General of the Federation, Senior Special Advisor to the President on Legislative Matters and the Conference of Speakers.