Imo communities admonished to adhere strictly to the law banning Female Genital Mutilation and cutting in the state and charged citizens to report any defaulting community to the law enforcement agents for appropriate action. This call was made by UNICEF consultant, Benjamin Mbakwem while addressing participants at Joint Programme on Elimination of Female Genital Mutilation, held in Oguta and Ikeduru Local Government Areas of the state. The training which was organized to support the establishment of surveillance systems at community levels also monitor, report compliance to declarations to abandonment of FGM. Giving the background and rationale of the exercise, by the UNICEF Joint Programme, Mbakwem, explained that the exercise is being implemented in the country by government agencies and civil society organizations and supports policy formulation, service delivery and community – based activities in five states comprising Ebonyi, Ekiti, Imo, Osun and Oyo states, adoring that it works in 10 LGAs of Imo state made up of Ngor Okpala, Oguta, Ohaji/Egbema, Ikeduru, Ihitte Uboma, Ehime Mbano, Ideato North, Owerri West, Owerri Municipal and Orlu. Explaining that ending FGM requires efforts at all levels, the statement disclosed that the FGM prevalence among women age 15 – 49 in Imo state dropped from 68% (NDHS 2013) TO 62% (NDHS 2018). While invariably, the prevalence among girls age 0 – 14 rose from 32.3% to 63% in the state even as the state has also banned the practice (FGM) through the “Imo state FGM (prohibition) Law 2017”. To build on the achievements of the UNJP in the country in ending FGM, end Violence Against Children (VAC), end Violence Against Women and Children (VAWC) increase the uptake of Birth registration services and reduce the spread of the COVID – 19 pandemic, Vitus Ekeocha the state Director of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) who spoke in tandem with the UNICEF Consultant, Imo and Ebonyi states – Benjamin Mbakwem said that there is the need to encourage and to build the capacity of the surveillance committee on integrated approach and messaging. This, they said would empower them to continue to engage with the rural populace and to sensitize community members in the oil-rich Local Government Area of Oguta and Ikeduru LGA about these issues to ensure that families are safe and their members especially women and children during the lock down period and when the COVID – 19 pandemic is over. Ekeocha and Mbakwem enumerated the role and responsibilities of the CBCPC and the Community Surveillance Team (CST) to include briefing the royal fathers on the outcome of the training, stepping down information to members of the community. Women’s Association, Awareness creation monitoring and reporting to Girls at risk of FGM, reporting referral and submission of Report.