The Global Fund Malaria Accountability and Advocacy Project, has urged governments to adequately fund malaria prevention, treatment and mitigation to effectively cover grassroots in Adamawa state. Mrs Laureta Charles, State Program Officer, made the charge while declaring open, review meeting in Yola Friday for 25 Executive Directors of CSOs and implementing NGOs to addressing challenges of mitigation, prevention, treatment of malaria and promotion of immunization in the state. Charles observed that, employing more health (female) personnel to man health facilities across the state would go a long way in provision of good health service delivery for the people The organization advocated for increase in awareness on use and distribution of long lasting insecticide net (LLIN), cautioned people against abuse COVID-19 protocol. The organization which renders free service in malaria treatment expressed worry over constant stock out of malaria commodities resulting to selling of drugs and sometimes over billing of clients for malaria treatment. The program manager, opined that, there is the need to promptly resolve issues of constant stock of global fund commodities in some health facilities in some health facilities. She added, “There is the need to provide adequate personal protective equipment (PPEs) in the health facilities across the state. “There is the need for community members to know that, they can access health services by patronizing GF supported health facilities closest to them”. Earlier, Dr Aminu Ahmad Chiroma, Executive Director, Pastoral Resolve lauded the organization’s activities in Yola-South, Demsa, Fofure, Jada and Guyuk LGAs in area of health and conflict management. The group discussion identified the COVID-19 pandemic had  effect on accessing malaria service in health facilities as people are afraid of being suspected to have the virus, if they present symptoms of malaria at the facilities. The stock review meeting had Society for Women and Girl Child Empowerment, Global Health Social Awareness Foundation and Pastoral Resolve (PARE) other NGOs where issues in the last 6-month were reviewed. 