Former President Goodluck Jonathan, former Vice President Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki are to be honoured for exemplary leadership for the centenary celebration and leadership
award in honour of Dr, Michael I. Okpara, late Premier of former Eastern Region. In a statement jointly signed by the son of the late Premier, Chief Uzodinma Okpara,  and Publisher/CEO of Verbatim Media Group,  Tobs Agbaegbu, in Abuja, noted that the programme line-ups will begin with a
world press conference and leadership awards in July/August, followed by other activities, ahead of a grand finale in December 2020. According to the committee, all the activities are meant to further immortalize Okpara, the patriot, statesman of repute and uncommon administrator under whose tenure as premier of the eastern regional government the Eastern Region became one of the fastest growing economies of the world between November, 1959 and January, 1966. The committee explained that two great Igbo leaders, Dim Odumegwu Ojukwu and former governor of Imo State, Dee Sam Mbakwe were nominated to receive posthumous Heroes Award while Chief Mbazulike Amaechi,
Engr. Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu and Dr.Peter Odili were nominated for Lifetime Achievement Award. Others including former President Goodluck Jonathan and former Vice President Alhaji Atiku Abubakar were nominated for Gold Medal Award, while 10 governors from various parts of the country, Peter Obi, former Governor of Anambra State, Timipre Sylva, Minister of State, Petroleum, and his counterpart in the Science and Technology Ministry, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and President General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, were
nominated for Exemplary Leadership award. The former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki as well as former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma Egba, and High Chief Obiora Okonkwo, Chairman of the Dome Entertainment Centre in Abuja, were also nominated for various leadership awards. Okpara, 1920- 1984, was a Medical Doctor and former member of Eastern Nigeria House of Assembly on the ticket of the NCNC. He replaced Rt.Hon. Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe as Premier of the region and served in that capacity from November 1960 to January 1966. A native of Umuegwu-Okpuola, Afugiri, Umuahia North local government area, in
present day Abia State, Okpara died in December 1984.