As the federal government prepares to resume domestic flights, Human Robotics are set to be used to ensure social distancing, security checks and screening of passengers against COVID-19 at the Nigerian airports, LEADERSHIP can report. The Minister of Aviation, Mr Hadi Sirika and other top officials in the aviation sector weekend, observed a demo flight from Abuja to kick start the introduction of Artificial Intelligence based humanoid Robot by Aerokeys Nigeria Ltd. To the amazement of the minister, the HMA successfully performed a facial recognition test during the demo which will now assist in performing some repetitive tasks that will allow for less human contact, enhancement and compliance to the COVID -19 airport protocols such as social distancing, temperature monitoring, information
management, security checks and others. Speaking to LEADERSHIP after the exercise, the managing director of Aerokeys Nigeria Ltd, Kudla Santumari Haske, said the demo, which achieved 100 percent success, was a collaboration with Bredhub. Kudla who said they have the capacity to train Nigerians on its usage, repairs and maintenance, added that it was time to prepare the younger generation for the new technology. “We are targeting other areas to apply the technology because it’s not only meant for airports,” Kudla said insisting that the robot brings accuracy in the airport checks adding that with maintenance and sustainability, the Nigerian airports will always get better. “It helps in easy disinfection,” Kudla said of another function of the human robotics, adding that the robot moves round the airport, telling people to observe social distancing. “If you are standing or sitting less than two metres from your neighbour, or there is a breach of social distancing, the robot will quickly intervene,” Kudla said. “For customer service, just ask the robot with the flight number, it will give you every information you need. It can also give you all the information you get while at the aircraft. “For checking of goods, the robot scan through and dictate prohibited items. If you want to speak to terminal manager in zones which you may not have access to meet physically, the robot will call the terminal manager and connect you people to talk. “The robot also check human temperature. There are so many things the robot does and it has limitless memory because it uses cloud. It drags itself and charge itself when the battery is down. The robot gives announcements at the airports,  present information, disinfect the airport and also talk to people on the need to observe the protocol of
social distancing,” Kudla added.