Authorities in Dubai have announced that they will be welcoming tourists and visitors starting on July 7 after shutting down for more than three months during the Coronavirus pandemic. However, the government also released a new set of protocols that all residents and citizens travelling into or out of the emirate must abide by during the pandemic. According to the guidelines  released by the authorities, international tourists travelling by air to Dubai must ensure they meet all requirements for entry to the UAE. The tourists will need to download the Covid-19 DXB App and register their details on it to facilitate communication with health authorities if they experience Covid-19 symptoms. In addition to filling the ‘Health Declaration Form’ before embarking, they should ensure they have a valid health insurance before they enter the UAE. They will be required to show proof of not being infected with the virus on arrival at Dubai airports. If they cannot provide this proof, they will undergo a PCR test at the airport. The authorities said all arrivals will be subject to thermal screenings, stressing that if a traveller is suspected to have Covid-19 symptoms, Dubai airports have the right to re-test to ensure the tourist is free of the virus. “It is also mandatory for tourists who test positive for Covid-19 to register their details on the Covid-19 DXB App and isolate themselves at an institutional facility provided by the government for 14 days at their own expense,” it stated. According to guidelines for returning UAE residents released by the authorities, residents holding Dubai-issued visas were already permitted to return to the emirate from June 22 by pre-booking flights on any airline on the condition that they obtain an approval coordinated between the General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs (GDRFA Dubai) and the airline. The residents must however, fill a ‘Health Declaration Form’ before embarking on their journey to confirm they do not have Covid-19 symptoms.