The planned resumption of international flights in Nigeria has been shifted by one week with the new date set at September 5, 2020 from the original August 29, 2020. This was revealed by the minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika at the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Speaking on the reason for the change, representative of the minister, and the director-general of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, Captain Musa Nuhu, explained that all aviation preparations were ready but some COVID-19 protocols needed to be perfected and hence, the need to extend the resumption date by one week. Speaking on the principle of reciprocity, the minister said before the commencement date, clear explanations would be made on that. LEADERSHIP Friday recalls that the principle means that all countries that have banned flights from Nigeria, will also have planes from their countries, banned from entry into Nigeria. Some of the countries, which have already banned flights from Nigeria, are in the European Union (EU) as the EU included Nigeria on the banned countries on the first of July, 2020 when they opened their airspace. It would be noted that the ministry of Aviation had stated that about 1280 passengers will be allowed in on a daily basis in Abuja and Lagos airports, which have been billed to commence first. Meanwhile, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 yesterday, said Nigeria has done well in curtailing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic six months after the incident case in the country. This is even as the PTF admitted that Nigeria and Nigerians could do better to stop the spread of the virus. Speaking at the daily briefing of the PTF, the chairman of the Presidential Task Force and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha said, “it is with all sense of modesty that I wish to state that Nigeria has done remarkably well but could do exceedingly better as captured in Mr. President’s speech during the World Health Certification-Free status for the African continent when he expressed optimism on our fight against the pandemic.” Also, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has launched two transparency dashboards of our COVID-19 response. The dashboards include the Incidence and Response Tracker Dashboard developed by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group and the second is the COVID-19 Resource Tracking Dashboard developed by the United Nations Development Programme.