A two-time Katsina State governorship candidate of the legacy party All Nigerians People Party, ANPP, Engr. Nura Khalil, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the decision to overhaul Nigeria’s security apparatus. Khalil, who worked with President Muhammadu Buhari at the defunct Petroleum Special Trust Fund(PTF) explained that the President’s decision was well thought-out, coming at a time many Nigerians are eager for an end to the challenges of banditry, kidnappings and allied crimes in the country. He lamented the damaging effects of the spate of killings on economic development across the nation: “total collapse of the agricultural sector, health and well-being of the masses, refugee crisis as can be seen from the increase in the number of IDP camps in the country”. Khalil also expressed deep concern over the worsening of the insecurity challenge to the recent ambush on the convoy of Borno State Governor Zulum by insurgents, describing it as one of the worst examples of the situation. He noted that it was important that stakeholders, including Northern elders have cried out to the government and that the recent decision of security apparatus overhaul therefore, was the best legacy the President would leave behind as a leader. Recalled that, the National Security Adviser revealed had recently hinted that President Buhari ordered for the security apparatus overhaul to tackle the lingering security challenge across the nation. Khalil noted that the action of the President is a proof that “he responds to problems after giving the benefit of doubt to his lieutenants” and because “he neither allows himself as a leader to be distracted or stampeded by opposition into taking the appropriate decision”. The former PTF Consultant explained that the President’s latest decision on security challenge was in tune with present realities and “his determination to consistently stand by truth, incorruptibility and service delivery”. Khalil however, called for prayers for the nation to achieve a swift end to the current security challenges and what he described as “the unforseen economic monster called Covid-19”, while commending President Buhari’s “tireless efforts to stem the tide of the pandemic”.