TARKAA DAVID in this report takes a cursory look at how the NAF despite its engagement to restore peace alongside other sister agencies, is also bridging the gap in the nation’s health sector as well as providing succour for poor and vulnerable Nigerians. Access to medical facilities has continued to be a mirage for the common man following the exodus of medical experts and the dearth of medical facilities across the country, as a result of lack of investment in the health sector amidst the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) under the leadership of the current Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, as part of efforts to give back to its host communities, recently conducted free medical outreaches for thousands of Nigerians in remote villages. Free medical consultations, distribution of treated mosquito nets, deworming and immunisation of children, visual acuity checks, minor surgeries and many others were also conducted. The NAF medical team visited two different communities in Sokoto State to provide medical assistance to victims of armed bandits. The team also proceeded to Katsina a gesture that has gone a long way to save more lives. LEADERSHIP Sunday findings show that even as physical security has occupied an ignoble position in the nation’s discourse, where the NAF is playing a key role, the Service has not lost sight of health security challenges facing the man on the street, which has claimed lives over the decades. It is heartwarming to note that the provision of free healthcare was part of the NAF’s “winning hearts and minds” programme aimed at enhancing mutual civil-military relations. The director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said the medical outreach was part of the NAF’s non-kinetic, civil-military relations efforts aimed at providing succour to all those who had been displaced from their communities due to recent attacks by armed bandits. “During the outreach, there will be free consultations, health education, immunisation and de-worming of children, distribution of insecticide-treated mosquito nets, dental services as well as visual acuity checks and provision of prescription eyeglasses,” he said. Besides the conduct of medical outreaches, the Service has continued to provide state of the art medical facilities around all NAF bases for its personnel, their dependants and its host communities. In 2019, the Service unveiled a 60 bed Nigerian Air Force Reference Hospital (NAFRH) in Daura equipped with state of the art operating theatres, an intensive care unit, medical laboratory, eye and dental clinics, physiotherapy department, amongst others. Reference Hospitals have also been established in Bauchi and Port Harcourt. The Service has also upgraded medical equipment at its various medical centres around the country, with new Cancer Screening Centres established in Bauchi, Kaduna, Maiduguri and Makurdi. Recently, the Service also commissioned a dialysis centre at the 063 NAF Hospital Bill Clinton Drive Abuja. The centre, which has three dialysis machines and other support equipment, two consulting rooms, a nursing station, was established, according to the Commander, in response to a global rise in cases of hypertension and diabetes which often leads to kidney disease. Since the outbreak of the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) the NAF airlifted several government officials, equipment and medical supplies in response to the outbreak, while NAF medical doctors, nurses and other health workers were also mobilised as part of the 80 selected Armed Forces of Nigeria medical personnel deployed to support the federal government’s effort to combat COVID-19 in Nigeria. The Service also ensured that its Liquefied Oxygen (LOX) plant is on 24 hours operation to ensure uninterrupted production and supply to Isolation Centers across the country, while 40 medical personnel were trained for the Aeromedical Evacuation of critical case patients of COVID-19 with the C-130 Hercules aircraft, which was recently configured for that purpose. On 11 August, 2020, the NAF concluded the airlift of COVID-19 essential medical materials and other consumables procured by the West African Health Organisation (WAHO) to 13 ECOWAS countries using its C-130 Hercules aircraft. The materials were airlifted and distributed in five batches to the 13 ECOWAS countries of Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea Bissau, Gambia, Sierra Leone and Senegal, Cape Verde, Benin, Togo, Liberia, Guinea, Niger Republic, Mali and Burkina Faso. The improvement in healthcare services has not just been in the area of medical outreaches and new infrastructure alone, but also in the enhancement of the strength and quality of the medical manpower of the Service. Over the past five years, the NAF has recruited an unprecedented number of medical professionals from various fields into the Service, while simultaneously scaling up training for its existing medical staff, both locally and abroad. Recently, the NAF commissioned 114 officers of Direct Short Service Commission (DSSC) Course 29/2020 who are all medical specialists. The President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, President Muhammadu Buhari, during the passing out parade on 8 August, 2020 charged the young officers to positively deploy the knowledge acquired during their training to defend the territorial integrity and national interests of Nigeria. The officers had endured six months of rigorous and intensive military training at the NAF’s Military Training Centre (MTC), where they were refined into better citizens and ready to take up the onerous task. The 114 officers include two medical consultants, 14 medical and veterinary doctors, 20 nurses and 78 other medical specialists. While congratulating the newly commissioned officers for withstanding the rigours of the training, the Reviewing Officer/Special Guest of Honour (SGOH) who was represented by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Olonisakin, reminded them that the occasion was just the beginning of yet another challenging but rewarding career as young officers in the NAF. He noted that the military profession requires absolute discipline, loyalty and hard work, among other virtues. He said these virtues were even more critical at this crucial point when the Nation is battling with the challenges of insecurity and the NAF, along with sister Services, is expected to secure the lives and properties of Nigerians to peacefully pursue their individual legitimate aspirations. “Such noble service demands exceptional courage, commitment and patriotism and Nigeria will continue to demand such qualities from you,” he said. Speaking further, the Commander-in-Chief emphasized that the Government was doing so much to confront the security challenges bedeviling the nation by taking necessary measures to safeguard lives and properties and to drastically cut off all forms of criminality. “I gladly inform you and indeed all Nigerians that the NAF is consistently supporting these Government efforts. Therefore, as you graduate, I urge you all to positively deploy the training that has been inculcated in you to defend the territorial integrity and national interest of our dear country,” he said. He also urged the young officers to do their best to further enhance the NAF’s efforts towards boosting qualitative healthcare for personnel, their dependants and members of NAF’s host communities, including sustaining medical outreaches for civilians and victims of insurgency and banditry. “This pragmatic approach to promote civil-military relations will go a long way in winning the hearts and minds of the communities, thus assisting in timely containment of insurgency, banditry and other security challenges”, he said. He commended the CAS, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, for his judicious use of available resources and robust capacity building initiatives responsible for a disciplined, highly professional and timely deployable air force. He equally extolled the efforts of the Commandant MTC and his team of officers and men for the successful completion of yet another training, while assuring them of his continued support to sustain their training efforts. The officers have been deployed to man NAF medical facilities across the country and contribute their quota towards improving healthcare delivery and security of the nation. The NAF also recently concluded a 5-day capacity building workshop for its laboratory scientists at the 661 NAF Hospital (661 NAFH) Ikeja, Lagos. The training was conducted in furtherance of its efforts at equipping its laboratory scientists with requisite skills necessary to improve the detection, identification, accurate diagnosis and reporting of Malaria cases. The workshop, which took place from 10 – 14 August 2020, had 30 medical laboratory scientists drawn from NAF units across the country in attendance. The NAF has indeed been living up to its motto of being “Willing, Able, Ready”, not just in its contributions towards the fight against insurgency, terrorism, armed banditry and other forms of criminality through kinetic operations but also through its contributions towards boosting the Nation’s health sector by infrastructure and human capacity development as well as its ‘winning hearts and minds’ programmes. 