Lafarge Africa Plc, business leaders and other stakeholders have agreed that collaboration, acceleration of activities and effective strategies must be deployed to achieve the sustainable development goals of the United Nations for Nigeria by 2030. Speaking at the Lafarge Africa first maiden edition of Sustainability Webinar Series with the theme, ‘The Decade of Action: Advancing the SDGs in a post pandemic era’, senior special assistant to the President on SDGs, Mrs Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire called for creative and innovative ways to build more equal, inclusive and resilient societies. Orelope-Adefulire, represented by the Senior Technical Advisor, Dr Bala Yusuf said the event is suitable, timely and a clear manifestation of Lafarge Africa collective commitment to the achievement of the SDGs in Nigeria and Africa at large. She said “Recall that in September 2015, World Leaders adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as a successor development framework to the Millennium Development Goals. “The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development envisions a present and a future that is economically sustainable, socially inclusive and environmentally resilient.” She said this vision is expressed through the 17 SDGs; 169 targets and 230 Key Performance Indicators, saying that the SDGs are a universal call to action to end poverty, safeguard the planet and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity by the year 2030. She noted that following the adoption of the SDGs, Nigeria acted very quickly in the overall implementation of the 2030 Agenda, adding that institutional frameworks have been established at the National and Sub-National Levels, and considerable progress has been recorded. She pointed that evidently, COVID-19 has revealed the vulnerability of healthcare systems in developing countries, saying that unfortunately, those who suffered the most are the poor and most vulnerable, women, children, people with disabilities, and older persons. She added that one of the most effective ways to do this is by strengthening existing partnerships between the public and private sectors and other critical stakeholders. She added that the Lafarge Africa Sustainability Series is in line with our idea of the Private Sector Advisory Group on SDGs, which is to create a strategic platform for galvanizing ideas, mobilising expertise and financial resources in support of the achievement of the SDGs in Nigeria. The chairman of Lafarge Africa, Adebode Adefioye, said “In line with our organisations commitment to Sustainability, economic and social governance is fully embedded in our operations and value chain. It is the platform on which our enterprise is built.” Adefioye added that “With the impact of COVID-19 and more than before, our commitment to Sustainability is absolute. Joining this conversation today is one of the ways we want to further entrench economic and social governance.” The Country chief executive of Lafarge Africa, Khaled El-Dokani said that the Sustainability Series is a four week long engagement which will focus on what we need to do collectively to achieve more measurable impact and accelerate the Sustainable Development Goals.