LG Electronics Inc has rejuvenated sports viewing with its LG OLED’s self-emitting pixel as major sporting activities across countries after several months of lockdown came as a big relief to all anxious sport lovers. Korean baseball was the first to return to action in June, followed by the English Premier League (EPL), Spain’s La Liga, Brazil and Mexico’s top football leagues, among others that followed suit. Through its innovations, LG Electronics, a global leader in consumer electronics has come to fill the vacuum, to prove a point through the LG OLED’s self-emitting pixels that empty stands don’t mean games have to be silent. General Manager, Home Entertainment Division at LG Electronics West Africa, Mr Vanjamin Kim said that “LG Electronics has proved beyond reasonable doubt that a larger TV will always do the job of watching action played across giant fields better, by displaying zoomed-out footage in amazing details, as the sporting events slowly makes their returns to the TV. Bigger displays also deliver wider viewing angles so family and friends can watch the big game together without huddling on the sofa.” According to him, OLED delivers the widest viewing angles in the game, the 88-inch LG SIGNATURE OLED 8K TV is the pinnacle of home spectating, while its smaller 48-inch sibling delivers the same wide viewing angle to smaller rooms.
“With LG OLED’s self-emitting pixels in 4K and 8K, viewers have the prospect of seeing every feature, down to each blade of grass, while decreasing motion blur and flickering as every pixel illuminates independently. “The TVs possesses AI Sound Pro and up-mix game audio for realistic sport sounds, they are also Bluetooth Surround Ready for easy connection with LG’s powerful XBOOM speakers or wide selection of sound bars.” He stated further that “For sports, gray uniformity is everything. Staring at the same color for hours means a TV must maintain a single block of color at a realistic brightness and without distracting dark patches. LG OLED TVs has continued to garner rave reviews for best-in-class uniformity.” Kim explained that LG OLED is even taking some sports virtual, with an all-new take on competitive racing. “Pro racing drivers are using OLED-powered simulators to compete in Australia’s BP Supercars All Stars Eseries, LG partnering with Kelly Racing to give their drivers the best chance to claim its inaugural title. Using LG OLED TVs, the impressive racing simulator achieves realistic racing experiences that every racer can easily relate to. “Esports’ incredible rise to mainstream has young and old alike searching for the best gaming arsenal to gain the competitive edge online. And with next-generation game consoles due by the end of the year, the epic battle between PlayStation and Xbox fans is set to hit new heights. “LG’s 4K Ultra HD OLED 48CX not only offers 4K resolution and 120 frames per second, it also features auto low latency mode (ALLM), enhanced audio return channel (eARC) and variable refresh rate (VRR) for the serious gamer,” Kim said.