KUCHA JEREMIAH, in this piece, examines how trade unionism if practised the proper way could bring dividends to both the members and their employers Leadership, according to a renowned university professor, Jibril Aminu is an “opportunity to serve and that it elicits sacrifice more than it confers privileges”. In assessing a leadership therefore, the fundamental point should be “to what extent it has transformed the lives of those being led”.  Against this background, members of the Ministry of Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN), National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) branch, can out and declare themselves beneficiaries even as the management of the organisation would not be put aside. This was brought to the fore most especially when the novel COVID-19 raged and there was a lockdown throughout the country. It is also on this premise that Comrade Kingsley B. Gaiya’s tenure as the national chairman of the Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN), National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), branch should be assessed.  At the prompting of members, Gaiya emerged as the chairman of the branch after a keenly contested election.  He had previously served as the National Secretary in the regime before his.  As he puts it “I never wanted to contest because I had the feeling that having worked as a team with the former chairman, I thought it was natural to support him to go for a third term tenure as allowed by the constitution of our great union, but when the pressure became heavy, I bowed and with their support, I emerged victorious.”  Even with the heavy support base, Gaiya made promises which include the promise to improve the welfare conditions of members; improve the inflow and out flow of communications especially between the executive and the six zonal offices of the agency and other welfare related matters.  Today, several welfare-related projects have been initiated and implemented. Examples are: before, the union used to share out to members condiments like rice and vegetable oil on only two occasions annually and in the quantities of 10kg or at best 25kg. Comparatively, however, today such condiments are distributed four times to coincide with the four major religious festivals of Easter, Eid el Fitir, Eid el Kabir and Christmas. The quantities too, have increased to 50kg for rice, four litres of oil, 1kg of milo, some quantity of sugar and liquid milk of different varieties.  Under Gaiya too, interventions have been made where such situations arose. An example is the distribution of palliatives (50 kg rice and vegetable oil) to all staff, National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) members, Student Industrial Work Experience Scheme (SIWES) members, and security personnel and cleaners; both at the headquarters and the six zonal offices of the agency during the lockdown imposed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  In the same spirit under this administration condolence visits are paid to bereaved members, during which financial assistance are donated. This practice has gone a long way to give members a sense of belonging.  The direct fall out of this new approach to leadership by the Gaiya-led executive has given raise to the swelling up of the membership of the union from about 300 to over 700.  What is more, even officers that suspended their membership are now coming back to the fold. A director once retorted “it is like the union waited for me to suspend my deduction before they started to distribute relief materials.”  The story does not end with relief distribution, several other projects have been executed and several others too are work in progress. These include: Gaiya’s administration inherited uncompleted procedure of acquisition of 18 hectares of land which was allocated to members. Today, a competent surveyor has been mobilized to site with the aim of undertaking concrete and physical demarcation of the plots with beacons and numbers to enable beneficiaries take physical ownership of their land.  The union is also working towards getting infrastructure on the site and this has begun with the acquisition of a blockmaking machine.  In less than two weeks of its operation, it has produced more than 5,000 units of blocks. This is aimed at affording members who would want to develop their plots easy accessibility to blocks as well as generate revenue to the union in its efforts at investment that would in future guarantee financial independence and growth as a body.  Comrade Gaiya said his leadership is taking a cue from the examples of its national leadership led by Comrade Ayuba Wabba, who during his tenure put up so many legacies including hotels, permanent office complexes and purchase of shares of blue chip companies. He says his successor; Comrade Biobelemoye Joy Josiah has added the building of a specialist hospital and acquired land for a proposed College of Health Technology.  In addition to the block industry, the union has also acquired a structure for a public toilet facility within the FCT that would house 24 rooms shared on a 12-12 basis for both male and female conveniences. Apart from enhancing environmental management, it is expected to yield revenue to the union. It shall also be managed along the standard of best practices so that it could serve as a model for others. Among the litany of achievements of the current exco led by Comrade Gaiya are:  the purchase of COVID-19 hand sanitizers and safety materials and their distribution to both the headquarters and zonal offices.  The union has also applied for an additional 20 hectares of land at FCT to augment for the shortfall of the first allocation of 18 hectares to staff.  In the same vein, the chapter has employed two additional staff to beef up the administration of the secretariat. Today one has been deployed as security on its site in Karshi while the other is the confidential secretary in its secretariat.  The branch leadership has also been up and doing through effective mobilization of members to attend rallies and protests whenever invited by the national secretariat.  The union also succeeded in mobilizing the interest of the National Body to participate in the Public hearing on the review of NPHCDA Act. It is indeed on record that the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and the International Trade Union Congress (ITUC) president, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, and the national president, Medical and Health Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MHWUN), Comrade Biobelemoye Joy Josiah were in attendance and made meaningful presentations.  The branch has also been recognised and made a member of the Programmes Implementation Monitoring and Compliance Committee (PIMCC) that monitors agency’s programmes across the country, all members of the national and zonal executives were made members.  This has enabled this branch to get more members in the daily operations of the Agency.  Beyond the issue of palliatives, distribution of reliefs, acquisition of physical structures, investments and revenue generation, is the survival of the members in their place of work. This is one area that unions are fundamentally formed to protect and to ensure that the members does not only survive his tenure but also work in an environment that provides for optimum exhibition of his potential.  It is in this premise that one would consider the Kingsley Gaiya-led executive extremely lucky. This is because the success of any unionist largely depends on one’s ability to convince a management into its demands and aspiration within available but often what every manager would call scarce resources. To the greatest relief of the Gaiya team was the appointment of a humanist and labour friendly executive director/chief executive officer (ED/CEO) in the person of Dr. Faisal Shuaib. His arrival to the agency created a robust working relationship between the union and the management.  His open-door policy has today changed the face of unionism in the agency as the new found dictum of dialogue reigns supreme.  This regime that promotes dialogue between management and union has led to the recording of many achievements which include:  resuscitation and improvement of the annual productivity award and was institutionalised to reward excellent performances among staff. Also introduced is the annual sports festival for the staff of the agency.  Again, the administration introduced what it called “Leadership Academy” (LDA) a programme that trains 30 staff annually and task shifting capacity programme that is training 119 Staff across the zonal offices and headquarters. This is a programme aimed at enhancing staff capacity and from the experience of the first batch from the LDA, it is quite glaring that the exercise has impacted on staff performance. It is important to note that another batch has commenced the programme this year.  The robust relationship between management and the union has also facilitated an increase in the number of staff that goes for field programmes. This has brought progress to the union as quality of lives has greatly improved.  The open door policy of the ED/CEO has also removed unnecessary tension among staff as all issues of misunderstanding that usually lead to disciplinary cases are often resolved through dialogue. This has given staff the much needed frame of mind to operate as there is an assurance of job security.  It is on this solid base that the opinion that both the Agency’s Chief Executive and the union’s Executive committee deserved some level of continuation having largely exercised their mandates in the overall interest of the people being served. 