Following the implementation of community policing across the country with a take-off fund of N13.3billion, state governments have formulated their policies on the operationalization of the initiative in partnership with the federal government. The National Economic Council (NEC) had on Thursday resolved that chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, with two other governors, should meet with the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning and the Inspector General of Police to coordinate the proper utilization of the funding of the initiative.  NEC’s ad-hoc committee on security and policing chaired by Fayemi had made a presentation on its assignment to NEC, noting that engagement with key stakeholders on the operationalization of community policing in the country was ongoing. Keying into initiative, state governors have started inaugurating state committees for community policing anchored on trust between the people and security officers. In Zamfara, the state government has constituted a committee for screening and recruitment of new intakes. Director-general of media and public orientation to the governor, Yusuf
Idris, told LEADERSHIP that part of the arrangement was to ensure only persons of good character are engaged in community policing. According to him, each candidate must have approval right from Ward
head to the emirate level. “Zamfara state government is committed to the community policing
agenda and ready to give all necessary support to the federal
government to achieve the desired goal,” he added. The director general stressed that the state government was committed
to the improvement of security situation at all levels. He advised other security apparatus to support the idea of community
policing in good faith, as the collaboration is aimed at addressing
the current security challenges facing the country. Idris explained that the idea of community policing would
improve intelligence gathering right from the grassroots. Plateau State, Governor Simon Lalong has also inaugurated the state
community policing advisory committee as part of efforts to tackle
crime through a bottom-top approach. The committee is to begin the process of implementing community policing in the state. Director of press and public affairs to the governor, Simon Makut
Macham, in a statement quoted Lalong as saying that Plateau had longed for the implementation of the community policing initiative to fight
criminality. He noted: “This is a welcome development for us as a state because we have since realised that the best way to guarantee the security of our
people is by embracing a bottom-top approach, which emphasises early
warning, intelligence gathering and crime prevention. “With a grassroots and people-driven approach such as community
policing, we are more likely to identify and fish out criminals,
thereby saving the citizens from the agony associated with loss of
lives and property”. The committee has the state commissioner of Police, Edward Egbuka,
as chairman, while the Gbong Gwom Jos and chairman, Plateau State
Council of Chiefs and Emirs, Da Jacob Gyang Buba, as co-chairman. In Kwara State, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has appointed
his advisers on security matters as a further step to ensure security
of lives and property in the state. The governor named Brigadier-General Saliu Tunde Bello (rtd) , one-time Colonel General Staff for the Nigerian contingent in the Liberian war and former military governor, as his Special Adviser on Security. The governor also appointed Aliyu Muyideen, an intelligence and
counterterrorism expert, as Senior Special Assistant on Security. The assemblage of a crack security team comes as the governor pushes
harder for more investments in Kwara State. The newly appointed security advisers could not be reached for their
comments on the preparedness of the state government to partner the
federal government on community policing because they have not fully
resumed duties. Also, Lagos State government said it is on the same page with the federal government on community police, saying the initiative had since taken an audacious step with the inauguration of State Community Policing Advisory Committee (SCPAC) and its operations arm, State Community Policing Committee (SCPC). According to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, members of the two
committees were inaugurated recently in the state, pointing out that
the event marked a turning point in the government’s deliberate effort
to re-strategise and rethink the security architecture, using community
Policing Initiative as proposed by the Inspector-general of Police
(IGP). The security initiative, the governor said, is to address inadequacies
of the current policing model, which, he said, had failed to engage
members of local communities and neighbourhoods in knowledge sharing and intelligence gathering that could help in nipping crimes in the bud. SCPAC, which is co-chaired by the commissioner of Police, Mr Hakeem
Odumosu, and chairman of Council of Obas and Chiefs in Lagos, Oba
Rilwan Akiolu, will be the custodian of the initiative as it will also maintain highest level of oversight on community policing in the
state. SPAC, on the other hand, will be responsible for managing and
coordinating the state-level operations of the community policing
programme, and will, among other functions, help identify security
threats in communities and work with the police and the Community
Police Officers (CPOs) in evolving appropriate strategies for
addressing them. Sanwo-Olu said the community policing initiative was conceived and
rolled out to achieve fundamental changes in the way the government
responds to security matters and make security agencies proactive in
discharging their statutory duties. He said, “In a democracy, the involvement of the people in all matters
of governance, especially on issues that impact directly on their
well-being is key to achieving good governance. One of the
inadequacies of our current policing systems has been the inability to
tap the knowledge and intelligence that exists at neighbourhood and
community level. “The work that the Police are expected to do becomes more difficult
when they are expected to do it alone. No matter how well-resourced or
technologically advanced a Police Force might be, there might be no
progress without the trust and support of the communities in which
they operate. Every citizen has a role to play in ensuring that the
security architecture functions optimally.” The Governor said deploying technology and equipping the police with
modern gadgets to fight crimes remained a novel idea any government
could introduce, adding however that such could not be a substitute for
mutual trust and cooperation between the police and members of their
host communities. He said a citizen-centric approach to tackling crime and criminality
would take a lot of pressure off the police and allow them to focus
energy and resources on issues that matter most. The community policing model, Sanwo-Olu suggested, will give every
community resident a strong sense of participation in governance and
strengthen the social contract between the Government and citizens. He
praised President Muhammadu Buhari for his unequivocal support for
fundamental security reforms in Nigeria. He said: “We are implementing this policing initiative with sole
objective of creating a platform for citizens’ participation towards
improving security in our communities. We want Lagos state to be a
role model for the rest of the country in terms of how community
policing should function. We want to create an atmosphere of mutual
trust and confidence, one that engenders speedy resolution of issues
as they arise. “Community policing, in its ideal implementation, will take a lot of
pressure off the Police Force and allow them to focus their energy and
resources where it matters most. It will give citizens and residents a
strong sense of participation in governance, and strengthen the social
contract between the Government and the governed. A citizen-centric
approach to tackling crime and criminality is a big plus for
democratic practice and governance.” In Oyo State, as part government’s efforts to implement
community policing as initiated by the federal government, Governor
Seyi Makinde, has inaugurated the Community Policing Advisory Council (CPAC), declaring that his administration will work with other
stakeholders to make the initiative a success. The governor said that measures were in place to facilitate the
setting up of another Mobile Force Base in Oyo town. While inaugurating the advisory council led by the Alaafin of Oyo,
Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, the governor stated that he had
absolute confidence in the membership of the newly-inaugurated
council. Some of the members of the council include the Alaafin of Oyo
(chairman); Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji; Soun of
Ogbomoso, Oba Oladunni Oyewumi Ajagungbade; chairman, Council of Obas and Chiefs, Oke-Ogun; chairman, Council of Obas and Chiefs, Ibarapa. Others are Service Commanders of Security Agencies; Chief Imam of
Ibadanland and chairman, Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs; chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria and Secretary; Seriki Shasha
(Representative of Arewa Community in Oyo State); representative of
Igbo Community in Oyo State; chairman, PCRC, Oyo State and the
chairperson, National Council of Women Affairs, Oyo State. Makinde said, “We will make this initiative work as we continue to
hope that Nigeria, one day, will get to that state of maturity where
the constitution will be amended for us to have state police.
Community policing is not an issue for the police alone. Quite
frankly, the bad boys are from certain homes, communities and we know
them. “So, I want to urge our traditional rulers to ensure that community
policing gets to the grassroots in their domain. “Once we are able to attack some crimes and criminal elements at the
community level, the resources at the state level can be deployed
effectively for some other things.” He disclosed that his administration had made solid investments in the
security sector in the last one year, adding that the government had
been doing everything possible to secure the lives and properties of
people within the state. On his part, the special adviser to the governor on Security Matters, retired Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni said advisory council was expected to come up the modalities on how to implement working
guidelines for its operation in the state. According to him, the inauguration of the advisory council is state
government’s efforts for its success. The chairman of the council and Alaafin of Oyo said, “We are happy to
be here today for this inauguration. I want to promise, on behalf of
other members, that we will know our responsibilities and do our best
to satisfy the aspirations of those who put us in this position. “We will do everything possible, because it is an honor for a few of
us to be selected for this task, among millions of people in the
state. And it is a task that must be done for Oyo State”. Also, the Osun State government said it has been proactive in securing the lives and properties of the citizenry by embarking on measures to complement the federal government’s community policing policy. Speaking with our correspondent in Osogbo, the chief press secretary
to Osun State governor, Mr Ismail Omipidan, recalled the inauguration
of the Osun Community Policing Advisory Committee to strengthen
security at local areas within the State. Inaugurating the Committee in Osogbo, the governor had said that the
initiative by the Inspector General of Police, Adamu Mohammed was “a
creative and proactive solution to the pervasive security challenges
in the nation.” At the inauguration, the governor noted that the initiative was to make the people own policing at the community level, participate in its
operations and partner with the conventional police to achieve
effective and efficient security and safety architecture. To ensure effectiveness, the committee has different structures,
including State Community Policing Committee, Area Command Policing Advisory Committee, Local Govt. Advisory Committee and Divisional Community Policing Committee. Omipidan also mentioned the inauguration of the Osun Joint Task force
comprising of the Army, the Police, the Air Force, the Department of
State Service, the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps and the
Nigeria Immigration Service as part of efforts to strengthen security and
maintain law and order in the state. Akwa Ibom state government, on its part, said it has set up a high powered committee to interface with the federal government agency on the implementation of community policing. The state commissioner for Information and strategy, Barrister Ini
Ememobong, stated that the state government will key into the programme to reap from its benefit. He said as a responsive government, Akwa Ibom State is ever ready
to partner the federal government on the issue of security to
safeguard lives and properties of its citizens. “In order to harness the benefit of the policy, we have set up a high
power committee that will interface with the federal government on
the issue and it is our believe that it will further help in the
maintenance of order and reduce criminality,” he stated. The Information commissioner, who explained that the state was
currently the most peaceful in the country due to Governor Udom
Emmanuel’s better security approach, noted that government will also
support any other security outfit in the South South geo-political
zone if established. On its part, Imo State government said it is working in tandem with the directives of the federal government, with the inauguration of the state Community Policing/Advisory Committee with a charge to members to ensure that they work hard to fish out criminals in Imo communities. The state governor, Hope Uzodimma, during inauguration, noted that the federal government, through the presidency, has approved of such inauguration all over the country. He explained that the sole aim is to ensure peaceful co-existence of indigenes and non-indigenes, ethnic groups and tribes in our communities all over the federation. The governor emphasized that the committee is not an alternative to
Nigerian security agencies like the Police or the Army, noting that rather, the outfit will partner with them to ensure that our communities are properly secured, hence making their security job seamless and easy. Governor Uzodimma said, “The committee is to work to ensure that
we live together in love and in peace and to smoke out all criminals,
reduce acrimonies among Nigerians in our domain and ensure peaceful
co-existence. “They should work hard to identify all social vices and deal with them according to the law.” He charged the state commissioner of Police to work out
modalities towards the creation of the zonal, local government and
community prototype of the committee, promising to give them all
necessary assistance that will enable them succeed. On behalf of members of the committee, His Royal Highness, Eze
Emmanuel Okeke of Amaifeke, Orlu, Imo State, promised to give in their best in achieving the set objectives. Those inaugurated include CP Isaac Olutayo Akiinmoyede, Commissioner of Police, Imo State; Brigadier Gen. Y. I Tukura, Brigade Commander of 34 Artillery, Obinze, Imo State; I. Arthur-Worrey, Director of State Security Service, Imo State; David Ringshum, Comptroller of Nigeria Immigration Services, Imo State; S. J. Bomol, Comptroller of Nigeria Custom Services, Imo State. Others include: HRH Eze E. C. Okeke, Eze Akkujiobi, Eze Thomas Obiefule, and Eze Eze Goddy Okeke, all representing traditional institution; Alhaji Bashir Uwakwe, Chief Imam, Imo State; Commodore S. H. Abdullahi, Naval Commander, Imo State; Mr. Elias Anyanwu; Chief (Mrs.) Shirley Amao. In Niger, the state government has set up an advisory committee on community policing cochaired by the Etsu Nope and chairman of Niger state council of Traditional rulers, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar. Governor Abubakar Sani Belllo who is the chairman of North Central Governors’ Forum inaugurated the 15-man community policing advisory committee to check insecurity said the essence of the committee is to have a robust system from the ward level. “I believe that security controlled at the ward level will have a great impact with regards to the general security of the State. I am glad that this is happening now at a time we are faced with a lot of security challenges”, he stated. He said the best place to combat crime is at the grassroots level, adding that with the committee in place, things will improve security-wise. The governor noted that those to be recruited into the community police should have impeccable character, He assured that those selected as committee members are people of proven integrity. Also, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has kicked off the implementation of the State Community Policing initiative. The FCT Minister, Muhammad Bello, had inaugurated a 16-member State Community Policing Advisory Committee (SCPAC) for FCT, saying community policing worldwide had proved to be effective in curbing crime by making the police and community members work together in the prevention and solving of crimes. He expressed optimism that, with the presidential approval granted for community oriented policing across the nation, Nigeria will begin to witness reduction in crime rate. Bello, therefore, enjoined members of the committee to take the assignment very seriously and give it the utmost attention it deserved. He also urged them to be nonpartisan in all their decisions and recommendations as well as be guided by the principles of natural justice and laws of the land. Police Re-arrest Suspected Oyo Serial Killer Meanwhile, operatives of the Nigeria Police Force, Oyo State Command, have re-arrested the notorious murder suspect, Sunday Shodipe, who escaped from lawful custody on August 11, 2020. Force PRO, DCP Frank Mba said in a statement that the suspect was rearrested yesterday by Police operatives at the Bodija area of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. It would be recalled that the erstwhile fugitive is a prime suspect in multiple murder of innocent citizens at Akinyele local government area, Moniya, Ibadan, Oyo State. Mba noted that the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, while commending the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu and his team for a job well done, equally expressed his sincere appreciation to the citizens for their support and understanding, while the manhunt for the rearrested Shodipe lasted. The IGP also warned against any form of complacency on the part of the operatives of the Oyo State Police Command, stressing that all hands must be on deck to bring the case to a positive and successful closure.     