A suspected rapist, one Okwubunka Nwaosueke, is to remain in Umuahia
Correctional Centre in the Abia state capital, until August 21, 2020
when a bail application for the transfer of the matter to a High Court
will be heard by a Magistrate Court. The presiding magistrate of the court in the capital, Mr. Emmanuel
Nwankpa, stated this while refusing the application which was filed by
counsel for the suspect, Barrister Uwakwe, saying the court has no
jurisdiction over the matter. Reports said when the suspect was arraigned on Friday, August 7,
Nwankpa has denied Nwaosueke bail, and adjourned the matter to 14th,
saying he would not act in haste on it until he had looked at the
position of the law on it. Nwaosueke, 40, os alleged to have raped his 13-year old niece, Miss
Oluchi Nwaosueke at Umumba Nsirimo in Umuahia South Local Government
Area on May 2020, an offence which is also a sacrilege. LEADERSHIP also gathered that when the matter was reported to the
police, the suspect, who is a school proprietor was reported to have
evaded arrest and fled the community to an unknown destination. A source reliably informed that, “After about two week’s absence, he
returned with a written petition against the mother of the victim,
Mrs. Daberechi Nwaosueke and a policeman to arrest and take her away.” Infuriated by the face-saving action, the youths had solicited the
intervention of the police in the matter through the office of the
Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Geoffrey Ogbonna, who
immediately ordered her release. Speaking up on her ordeal in the hands of her uncle, the teenager
said, she was surprised and terrified by his attitude towards her,
adding that he had threatened to kill her if she informed either her
parents or anyone else about it. She also said that before the incident, he had been forcefully
fiddling with her breasts despite her protests, adding that on one
occasion, he broke into their bathroom while she was taking a bath,
she raised an alarm and he retreated.