The immediate past Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission (NCPC) Rev. Tor Uja said though the country has successfully contained the Coranavirus (COVID-19), it needs atleast one or five Federal Hospitals in every local government to effectively tackle future pandemic. Dr Uja stated this during a chat with some select journalists in Abuja where he said Nigeria has the best COVID-19 response so far despite weak health system. He said every arm of Nigerian service be it security, health are over stretched hence the federal government must work closely with the local government to strengthen them. “I stand to congratulate Nigerians for very successful management of covid19 invasion of our country. “Nigeria has produced the best COVID-19 response in the world and those involved deserve applause” he said. He noted that with a population of over 200m people,COVID-19 infections is below 50k and death rate below 1000 and daily infections below 1000 and declining. He therefore commended the Presidential Task Force (PTF) and all the people involved in managing the outbreak. He said “The federal government needs to produce a holistic road map on how to live and cope with the virus going forward. This will demand producing more long term programmes that can take care of similar issues in the future. Such steps should include making covid-19 an opportunity to improve on  our infrastructure, provide social cohesion ,partner with the nations strategic stakeholders and build a framework for smooth national operations in all sphere. “Such investments should include working with local government to provide atleast one federal government hospital in every local government area in Nigeria in some cases five medical facilities. “Our medical infrastructure is weak therefor federal government must dare to invest in every local government, it is an opportunity for such investments.” He added that very few Nigerians have underlying health challenges which is as a result of healthy living. “We must encourage Nigerians to avoid junk food. Nigerians have painfully obeyed the covid19 protocol with 65 percent compliance rate.” He attributed the successes to healthy living and lifestyle of Nigerians which he said must be encouraged to maintain He said in post COVID-19, the government must “Develop a road network that can reach every facets of Nigeria, remodel all market to create more space to strengthen social distance regime, promote ease of movement “Provide grant to all local government finance agriculture to enable farmers produce where they have competitive advantage. They should be direct intervention fund to local government. “Promote an export driven economy especially focusing on the export of Nigerian food “Promote strong strategic saving culture that can enhance strong national response to issues.” He further tasked the federal government to identify and partner with strategic stakeholders whose mandate is to build strategic areas of the country. Uja charged the PTF to move from monologue weakly briefing to dialogue with stakeholders such as church leaders, Mosque leaders etc. 