A group, Citizens’ Initiative for Security Awareness (CISA) has
decried that Nigerians are sabotaging the war against insurgency and
all other forms of criminality by feeding bandits and terrorists
information against the Nigerian troops rather than rendering them
their support. The National Coordinator, CISA, Chidi Omeje, while addressing a news
conference yesterday, disclosed that residents in some parts of the
Northeast are leaking information on troop’s movement and position to
the Nation’s enemies. “What could be more horrendous than sabotaging their effort by leaking
their movement or position to terrorists or bandits? That is terrible,
unpatriotic and counter-productive. Politicians should be more
concerned about this and find a way to drum up support for the
security forces from their constituents”, Omeje said. The Coordinator also alerted plot by “unpatriotic politicians and
mischievous interest groups” to destroy national security through
propaganda aimed at dampening the morale of troops in the battlefield. He lamented that security forces who sacrifice their lives for the
peace of the nation are made to bear sustained unconscionable media
vilification orchestrated by unpatriotic politicians and mischievous
interest groups. “To this set of Nigerians, not even matters of national security or
the corporate existence of the country, can be spared their negative
politics or religious bigotry. This unacceptable trend has gone on for
far too long to the embarrassment of ordinary Nigerian citizens who
truly appreciate the huge sacrifices and fighting spirit of the
Nigerian security forces.” Omeje stressed that the Nigerian security forces must be insulated
from the malaise of negative politics ravaging the land, and
politicians must desist from wearing out soldiers with their
“divisive, incisive and insensitive pronouncements.” The Coordinator noted that Nigeria has remained a strong, progressive,
one indivisible nation on account of the resilience, commitment,
loyalty and sacrifice of our indefatigable security forces. “When the blood-thirsty Boko Haram terrorist group began its brutal
violent campaign against innocent Nigerians, the Nigerian security
agencies led by the Armed Forces gallantly rose in defence of the
people. “Their gallantry, as we sadly note, has not been without a huge price:
a number of soldiers have paid the supreme price, many others have
lost their limbs or have been maimed for life, young families of
military personnel have been thrown into mourning and sorrow; many
more soldiers are still in harm’s way, doing all they could to defend
and protect us from those who seek to destroy us. Let us not distract
our troops, let’s give them the support, if they have the morale,
they’ll perform optimally”, he urged. According to him, what the military and all other agencies need is
“unconditional public solidarity and unflinching support” too boost
their morale, adding that the government can also support the military
by recruiting aggressively, more policemen to support troops in
tackling insecurity.  He noted that the Nigerian troops are currently
overwhelmed and the police grossly understaffed. “Aggressive recruitment of more policemen can support the military
take out criminals and their sponsors. Nigerian police can’t contain
the type of criminality we have in Nigeria”, he said.