Recently, Nigerians have been waking up to series of skyrocketing sequence of very shocking revelations of parents and caregivers caging and chaining their loved ones on excuses ranging from truancy through drug addiction, ABDULLAHI YAKUBU reports There is an upsurge in the number of people chained by family members across the country. Some of them are chained for decades against their fundamental human rights. These sets of individuals are chained and locked up in secluded private rooms where they face terrible abuse. According to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), every person has the right to freedom, justice, and peace (United Nations 1948). Article 25 (section 1) stated that “everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his or her control.” Experts are of the view that far more than any other type of illness or mental disorders are subject to negative judgements and stigmatization in the country due to ignorance. Many patients not only have to cope with the often devastating effects of their illness but also suffer from social exclusion and prejudices. One of the unfortunate incidents came one after the other with particular reference to an episode involving a 32-year-old man, Ahmad Aliyu, who was reportedly caged inside a room by his father and stepmother for over seven years. Aliyu, a resident of Farawa Babban Layi in Mariri quarters of Kumbotso local government area in Kano Metropolis, was rescued by the Police and some human rights groups on 13 August, 2020. The victim was chained and caged after being accused of drug abuse by his parents. Some good Samaritans residing in the area were said to have alerted the Police and human rights activists about Aliyu’s predicament. Subsequently, the video of the rescued Kano man went viral on Friday 14 August, 2020, showing how the police rescued him from the cage where his parents allegedly locked him for seven years. The parents of the rescued man were said to have been invited by the Police for questioning. Residents and neighbours of the parents have expressed shock when the Police discovered and broke the news to the public. Spokesman of the Kano Police Command, DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, confirmed the incident. Haruna, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), told LEADERSHIP Weekend that investigation had reached an advanced stage where it was established that his biological father and his stepmother were planning to kill him by torturing him to death so as inherit the house they were occupying the property he acquired after the death of his late mother. DSP Haruna highlighted that Ahmad being the only child to his deceased mother inherited the house after her demise a development that fails to go down well with his stepmother who influenced his father to kill him through whatever means so that the house will eventually be part of what her biological children will inherit too after if the father eventually died. The sad revelations by the Police spokesman came barely four days with the arrest of the accused persons and it had left many sane men in total shock and disbelief of what the world is trying to turn into. Just as frayed nerves concerning the unfortunate incident was about to simmer down, came another fresh incident of monumental grade where the Police in the state succeeded rescuing another man popularly known as Ibrahim Lawan who was confined to a room for 15 years by his biological father Malam Lawan Sheka Unguwar Fulani also in Kumbotso local government area of the state. It was gathered that the 35, years old man was alleged to have been detained by his biological father, Malam Lawan at Sheka Unguwar Fulani adjacent Gidan Mai Unguwa Bello for allegedly becoming truant to his directives for that length of time without allowing him access to sunlight. The operation was carried out by the Kano State Police Commissioner, Habu Sani alongside the OC Metropolitan Unit of the Police SP Magaji Musa Majia during the operation, Mallam Lawan, who is a Friday Mosque Chief Imam, was not at home when the security operatives arrived his house to free the victim. After Ibrahim was taken away to the Police Command at Bompai however, he was quickly moved to the Malam Aminu Kano Hospital for medical checkup to ascertain the level of his medical fitness after a very long time of solitary life and remain incommunicado. Ibrahim who was twenty years at the time of his detention was alleged to have become mentally deranged as a result of the psychological torture infringed on him by his parents. By the said development Ibrahim ranked the second person who was rescued by the Police within 48 hours in Kano state as a result of the ill decision of their parents. Also, Kano State Police Command again rescued another man who was unlawfully confined for 30 years in a room by his relatives. His relations were reported to have held the 55-year-old yet-to-be-identified man for having a psychiatric problem. The victim was tied to a block of wood in a room with no window. Confirming the incident to journalists, the spokesman of the State Command, Abdullahi Haruna, said the victim has been admitted at a Medical facility in Rogo Local Government Area, adding that investigation has already been launched. According to the PPRO, the Police had earlier rescued Ahmed Aminu, who was imprisoned by his father for 7 years and another, 30 years old man who was also held for 15 years at Sheka quarters in Kumbotso Local Government Area of the state by his father. Meanwhile, Salisu Salau, 45 -year- old of Shiyar Hakimi, Off Divisional Police headquarters, Gidan Mahdi in Tangaza Local Government Area of Sokoto State is alleged to have been detained by his family members for 15 years. The special adviser, Human Rights, NGOs and Donor Agencies to the Sokoto state Governor, Hajiya Ubaida Muhammad Bello, said she received the report of the abduction and has assigned them for a proper follow up on the issue. Comrade Hussaini said that while in Tangaza local government, they went to the said house in the company of the DPO, DSS personnel and police officers and rescued the victim. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Weekend, the founder/CEO of the Dewdrops Community Centre for Special Needs (CADET) Academy, Lola Aneke decried the increasing cases of very shocking revelations of how parents and caregivers lock up their children and young adults. She urged parents and caregivers to shun any form of stigmatization and brazen up to seek assistance instead of locking up the child at home. She noted that early intervention and therapy can help children develop skills and achieve their potentials rather than locking them up. ‘’Tying someone up is generally not acceptable. Government and civil societies should step up awareness that will in turn lead to acceptance. ‘’Mental health issues can happen to anybody anytime. Knowledge and support are needed to help these individuals. ‘’It is wrong to tie someone down. Knowledge is power. There is a need for more empowerment on how to provide services for these individuals to make them a better person. You can only make someone better, you cannot change someone. ‘’Legally, every Nigerian child has the right to education and good health, rights to develop, and to participate actively in the promotion of his/ her rights, according to the 1990 Convention on the Rights of the Child. These also include the right of children with disability,’’ she said. She said that children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) for instance can struggle with focus, attention, transitions, organisation, memory, time management, emotional control and frustration hence, the role of special needs school cannot be overemphasized to ensure quality development. Barring his mind on the controversial subject matter, Dr Madaki Maikano a Lecturer with the Department of Sociology Bayero University Kano (BUK) opined that what is happening is a complete deviation from the traditional and cultural norms of the role parents are supposed to play. He said every child is supposed to be guided and should be given good training from his parents and is expected also to emulate them in all they do provided such behaviors are on the right track. Dr Maikano said once a child is growing up, he needs a good parental upbringing that will shape his life and make him socialize with his peer group and emulate good conducts from his seniors. However, the new idea brought about by parents especially in locking or caging their wards have both social and psychological effects. Hence most of the parents embarked on the dehumanizing treatment of their wards due to myopic reasoning their actions lead to depressive tendencies and tension among the caged Children. Dr Madaki said though the two incidences in Kano directly has a connection with illiteracy he argued that no sensible man or woman will resolve incaging his biological child for years and depriving them of good food, lack of adequate medical care, good clothing, bad sleeping environment, lack of physical exercise, and socialization among others. “Lack of all these will affect the child psychologically and will make his faculty of reasoning to work anti-clockwise.”  The government must have to come out and fight these destructive acts through proper legislation and promulgating laws by the state Assembly to punish all those found tramplings upon the rights of their children. Dr Madaki concluded that this must be done to serve as a deterrent to others. On his part, a renown public affairs commentator and a lecturer in the linguistic department of Bayero University and also a one-time Foreign Affairs Journalist of over two decades professional standing Dr. Isah Muhammad Inuwa associated the rampant cases of human bully and torture by parents on their biological children to lack of sound education and high-level poverty that is causing a devasting consequence on them. He said no enlightened man or woman will act the same way the suspects have acted. If they were enlightened, they will do the needful by taking their children to Correctional Centres so that proper medical attention will be applied for them to detest drugs. Dr Inuwa opined that the effect of the torture will not end on the victim alone but would go a long way in sending a permanent shock in the minds of little kids who might have observed the conditions of the victims while in captivity. Dr Isah averred that “It will generally impact negatively on the children who will have a second thought on the behaviors of parents towards their children.’’ He said parents who ought to be the final destination for their kids in terms of the need to have a sigh of relief in terms of pain, agony and depression that come their way are now behaving like monsters. Dr Inuwa added that there is the need for the government to step up efforts to deal with illiteracy among its citizenry so that people can be acquainted with their roles and what is expected of them as parents in an enlightened society like ours.