IGHO OYOYO writes on the sad situation endured by students of Suleiman Barau Technical College located in the heart of Suleja local government area, Niger State  A popular maxim state that education Ian the bedrock of any meaningful developments – that is when the environment for learning is conducive for students to learn and grow, both educationally and mentally. However, when reverse is the case, where the environment is far from being conducive, then the products from the institution could be seen as half-baked. That is the case of Suleiman Barau Technical College located in the heart of Suleja local government area of Niger State, where the facilities in the internally displaced camps are better than that of the school when compared, because of total neglect of the school facilities by the school authority, the local government chairman and the state government, despite huge yearly allocations for education in the state. A visit to the institution, particularly the school hostels, would make you emotional and feel pity for the students of the school who were accommodated in the dilapidated hostels. The entire hostels’ environment is like a mini forest because the hotels are surrounded by bushes which play host to dangerous reptiles like snakes and scorpions. The hotels are all in deplorable condition: none of them has a window, the doors are bad and the ceilings are dirty and disordered.
Inside the hostels look long- abandoned, and has turned places of abode for homeless beggars. Most of the ceilings are almost falling off, with the furniture completely worn-out or unusable for a sane person. Most of the students sleep at night with their mattresses on the bare floor, making them vulnerable to attacks by reptiles that might crawl in at night amidst the fact that the doors of the hotels are in bad states.
The students who occupy the hostels have lost hope that they will ever experience a conducive and comfortable learning environment, like most of their mates whose parents are well-to-do and could afford to take their children to better schools with modern facilities for learning. A year-three student of the school, Nura Mohammed, lamented that since he resumed the school three-years ago as a year-one student, he has never seen electricity supply in the school, despite that the school is the main technical college in Suleja area council. “Having a good and decent hostel like other schools is our daily prayer,’’ he said, adding that because of the dilapidated state of the hostel, most of the students decided to move in with their friends who live outside the school, thereby abandoning the hostels. Although those students were recently warned by the school authority to return to the hostel, with a threat that they risk being expelled if they fail. “The truth is that this place is not habitable at all, as it is not fit to be called a boarding school because the whole place looks like an abandoned IDPs camp. You can see for yourself that there are no windows and good doors in the hostels. This place is a living nightmare that we are forced to live with. “Most times, we do not sleep at night for fear of being attacked by burglars or even thieves, who may feel that there are things to steal from us. Whenever we sleep, we must wake up at night from 1 am and be walking around the hostel because we are always afraid to sleep deep. “Even the place we sleep is also of great concern because most of us sleep with our small mattresses on the bare floor. Sometimes when we wake up at night, we will see scorpions moving about and sometimes we see snakes, which we usually chase out or kill if possible. We are suffering in this school. Our hostels are in dire straits. I do not know who we offended for us to be punished this way,” Muhammed said. Also, a final year student of the school, Isah Danjuma, explained that they have learned to live like that in the school hostels, because their hopes were very high at the early stage of their admission, but were cut short as the years passed by, with no positive development coming to the school from the government. Danjuma said: “The proximity of the council secretariat to the school has not brought anything good to it, making it seems like the relevant authorities have turned blind eyes to the college. The local and state governments obviously don’t have the school on their agenda. “The council chairman knows exactly the pitiable state of this school, and he has been here on different occasions, but nothing good has come out of his visits. Just take a look at this hostel, will you ever allow your child to stay in this kind of environment all in the name of attending a school? But for us, we have no choice. We just have to make do with what our parents can afford. “I do not know if our principal cares about the plights of the students here, because if he does, he would have proffered a solution to the suffering we are enduring in this hostel. At night we sleep like prisoners, with just one eye close; we usually don’t have good night sleep, because anything could just happy in the middle of the night. “We are appealing to the state and local governments, and even international donors and organisation to come to our aid, by rebuilding this school because, in my opinion, the structures have gone beyond renovation. There is a need for complete remodelling if this school must continue to exists. If that is not done, I am afraid the hostel buildings might collapse someday soon,” he said. A staff of the school who begged for anonymity told LEADERSHIP Weekend that teachers and students of the school have been warned by the school authority from speaking to the media or anybody that comes to ask questions about the state of the college and its hostels. According to him, “The last time some staff spoke with a media team that came to make enquiries about the state of the school, an education deputy directors loss his job immediately the information was publicised. “It is a risk for me to be talking to you now. Nobody will tell you anything genuine about the state of this school, because all of us have been warned not to speak to anyone about it. The truth is that I am not comfortable working in this kind of environment, but what will I do in a country where you hardly find a job. I have no choice but to manage where I am, as far as it is called a government job. It is really sad. “I must tell you that even the principal of this school seems to be scared of talking about the situation of this school to the education board, for reasons best known to him. Because if not so, why will a government secondary school located in the heart of the city be abandoned to this stage? “If you ask anybody among the head teachers, they will tell you that the principal said the government is looking into the state of the school and plans are on the way to renovate its facilities, but this is not true. Because this is what we have been saying for over 10 years now, without any move from the government,” he said. However, from the revelation received from the students and staff, the school still hosts students and one would wonder why some parents still allow their children to study in such an unpleasant and unsafe environment, in a country where there are serious insecurity challenges which include kidnappings. Mallam Useni, An aged man who resides close to the school, opined it is poverty that made some parents in the area counsel allow their children to the technical college and live in the dilapidated hostels, not minding what may befall them in the unsafe environment. “I used to have my child in the school, but most times he comes home with one ailment or the other, ranging from reptile bites to malaria, so I had no choice than to look for money and register him in a school with better learning environment, because I cannot allow him die in the school all in the name of poverty. “I still wonder why the government
decided to abandon such a technical school that ought to breed young children and give them a purposeful future. The technical school can raise independent children, who would be able to fend for themselves after their technical education. “But the government has contributed to the destruction of this boarding school because parents that can afford better schools do not bring their children here, while those that used to have their children in this school had to withdrew them to better and safer schools. “This school was not like this some years back. It was one of the best schools in Suleja. But for lack of political will from present and previous governments, the school was put in this deplorable state. Politicians usually come with different promises before elections, and when they get elected, they forget about their promises and responsibilities. Attempts by our reporter to get information from the school authority on what they have been doing to improve the standard of the school facilities did not yield positive results, as the vice-principal of the school, who gave his name as Mohammed Suleiman, said that the issue is before the government, that they are looking into it. “All I can say is that the matter is before the government and they are looking into it. I believe that they will do something about the situation. But, I cannot tell you when it will be,” he said. Also, when LEADERSHIP Weekend visited the Education department at the local government secretariat to capture what the government is doing to ensure that the school is brought back to standard, the response was not different from that of the school’s vice-principal. A lady in the Education Department who preferred anonymity said the government is looking into the school situation. She added that because of the council’s meagre resources, it cannot handle such massive projects of renovating the school which is almost completely destroyed. “The issue of the technical school has been lingering for a long time, but nothing can be done from the council here. I believe that the government is looking into it and will act at the right time. But you must understand that all these things depend on the budget,” she said.