Why We Must Sustain Routine Immunisation-Tunji Dr Abdulrahman Tunji is the chairman Nigeria National Polioplus Committee. In this interview with journalists in Abuja, he speaks on the need to sustain routine immunization as the World Health Organisation (WHO) officially declared Nigeria and the African Region free of wild polio. HENRY TYOHEMBA was there.  Nigeria has been certified polio free, how do you feel as the chairman of the committee? Me and my team, when I said my team I mean the national polioplus committee and all the Rotarians in Nigeria who have being working in tandem with sense of accomplishment and relief by the same time cognizance of the fact that we are exiting our ultimate goal for the whole world to exit the wildpolio virus transmission. It is a great time and exciting time and I think we earn the right to celebrate but at the same time remind ourselves that we have not gotten to full stop in our wild polio eradication. We are just at the comma now and we are looking forward to a time where we can actually say the job is done and no child is ever paralyzed. When did this journey started especially in Nigeria and can you give an estimate of children that have benefitted from polio immunization? The time that we started in 1985 the leadership of rotary having done a pilot programme to put a lead on polio transmission got the impetus to scale it out to the world, that inform the leadership decision to seek WHO partnership in achieving the world without polio after a while the WHO bought into the idea and I requested rotary to raise the initial fund that will be required to eradicate polio in the world by the year 2000 which is a 15 years span at that time, Rotarians always rise to the occasion and this time we surpassed the occasion by raising almost 240million US dollars and that was how the journey started and WHO subsequently got World health Assembly to declare polio eradication as a programme of worldwide importance. World Health Assembly is an assembly of Ministers of Health in all the nations that constitute United Nations and that is how it started and then UNICEF joined the group we call Global Partnership Eradication Of Polio and Bill gate Foundation joined just about a decade, among others. So that initially was the GPE partnership that started this journey of immunizing every child in the world against the wild poliovirus. The estimate for the number of children we have immunized over all of this year is about 15billion. When we are talking about funding we have since then surpassed our deadline of 2000 we have gone another twenty years and that has its attendance cost which has increased the cost of this effort to almost 19billion dollars and still counting because we have not eradicated polio in the world and in Nigeria alone in the last 15 years we have expended about 298 million US dollars on the programme and we expect that we will still needs some funds because it is not done yet, we still need to kick polio out of Nigeria and in order to do that we still need to continue immunizing children. Immunization will only stop when the whole world is certified polio free. Definitely immunization we continue, immunization will only stopped the point in time WHO certified the world polio free when will this happen we hope soon. Our challenge has been in Afganistan and Pakistan and the transmission is mostly around the borders of those two countries and we are quite optimistic that a lot is being done now by the government of Pakistan with engagement from rotary leadership and Bill Gate Foundation there is a very strong political commitment on the part of Pakistani government and also we have actually had engagement with Pakistani military leadership who are the ones assisting in ensuring that those insecure areas that make it difficult for children to be reach for vaccine are being reached and so we are quite confident that with the political will of the government in support of the Pakistani military and also the religious leadership who are very crucial in ensuring people receive polio vaccine, something that is a friendly vaccine, a safe vaccine and efficient vaccine to prevent their children being paralyzed with polio and I am please to say that despite COVID-19 pandemic Pakistan has restarted its polio campaign taking in cognizance all the necessary protocols. What are the major challenges in doing this? At the beginning around the year 2001 as you may be aware, there was a lot of misleading information in the media about the safety of polio vaccine which was bought into by some political leaders that led to the boycott of polio immunization in 2003-2004 for about seven states in the north. We were quite fortunate at the time that government at federal level took steps to assure the leadership both at academic level in the north both medical academics, scientific academics religious leadership, traditional leadership to show that this vaccine is safe. They travelled to some part of the world, partly Islamic countries like Malaysia which also was producing the vaccine to South Africa and Indonasia to actually see the process and the safety guides that go into vaccine production storage and distribution to convince them by the time they came back and give the report to their federal governments and that started us on the new part unfortunately, during that period of time our cases had increase from 200 a year to about 1000 cases and that was the major setback but gradually from then on, with the support of traditional and religious leaders and of course the drive by political leaders supported by rotary with huge amount of advocacy effort on regular basis just to keep an eye on board to make sure that we reduce the cases and that has continue till date and that is what has brought us to the point where we went without polio for two years from 2014-2016. Of course, the insurgency in the north east, Borno state in particular prevented us in reaching a certain cohort of children below the ages of 5 and two years for about two years and it was not too surprising that when those areas were liberated we found children who have been living in areas where polio vaccine is being circulating and by the time we got them out of IDP camps we had about four cases thankfully, rotary and the partnership rose to the occasion and the president magnimously released without hesitation about N9.5billion to work to contain Borno state and it yielded result because those were last cases we have seen since 2016 and that is what has brought us to a point where WHO pronounced Nigeria polio free. What is the statistics of polio victims? We will get you the numbers of polio victims because we have annual figures all we need to do is to add it up. For polio victims, our programme is called polioplus for a reason. We are not only about polio but also adding value to those who already have had polio so we provide free surgeries for polio survivors to make some of them who are crawling to walk, to provide those who are already working with difficulties with prostitis to make it easier for them to be mobile and join the productive force. We also provide tricycles for polio survivors so that they can be mobile and provide them for children so that they can go to school and for adult as well. Those are the two main areas that will support polio survivors. Why are you not integrating it into Nigeria National Health Policy to make polio vaccine compulsory for all children? Well, the National Health Policy is a very broad based policy. The primary Healthcare Policy takes into cognizance of all vaccine preventable disease both for children and for adults. Polio happens to be one of them and it actually became more prominent when the expanded programme of immunization was announced by government. Up to that point in time, polio was not in the mainstream of government programmes for immunization and here I must commend the ‘Kick Polio Out Of Africa’ by Mandela. What level of support do you receive from agencies in responding to these issues? Our main partner agencies the most popular ones are WHO and UNICEF who are the ones actually running the programme in conjunction with government’s Primary Health Development Agency. We have also had the privilege of Bill Gate Foundation who has contributed enormously financially to this programme. Currently, we have an agreement with Bill Gate Foundation that has just been reviewed this year for them to provide for every 50million US dollars we have spent on polio activities around the world, Bill gate Foundation will match a 100million dollars. What is rotary intend to do so that Nigeria do not relax as it is certified polio free? We have been lucky that before COVID-19 came we have no polio virus so we are not very much concerned about transmission for the wild poliovirus. In January we had an outbreak of vaccine derived in Sokoto state and we were just preparing to do a response when this came so that was the major setback but thankfully by mid September we are going to resume our response. What Rotary is going to do is what we have always done. We provide resources to the government through UNICEF and WHO for all interventions but mostly now we are concentrating on surveillance and operational cost and the operational cost actually covers the cost of the people who actually do the work. We also support certain human resource capacities in areas where we think there is a lack especially, in the areas of coaching, maintenance system to make sure that vaccines don’t only arrive safe, they are store and distributed safely and there is accountability. 