Somewhere in the 1999 Nigeria Constitution as amended is a section that confers on the National Assembly the power to “expose corruption, inefficiency and waste in the execution of laws within its legislative competence and in the disbursement or administration of funds appropriated by it.” Somewhere amongst the members of the National Assembly are those “Distinguished” and “Honourables” whose sole purpose for “purchasing” membership of this Assembly is to elevate self and self and self …me, myself, and I in that order. The National Assembly of Nigeria today is made up of men and women who purportedly offered themselves up to represent their people and constituencies, not just offered but begged in some instances to be allowed to take up representation. So, surely they are representing their people fantastically and the people are not complaining anyway, or are they? I do not hear cries of protest nor do I see marches of protest in the streets of towns in their various constituencies. Yes, they must be doing great at representing. They appropriate the budget in all ramifications by including in the process the right to execute jobs lined out in the budgets presented to them for approval, they want to be the contractors, the consultants and the employers. Constituency projects blablabla… They have taken the art of representation notches higher whereby drama and theatrics have been introduced. Committees’ public hearings are organised for the benefit of the public to buttress the point and create “poster acts for good” representation. We have become witnesses to such drama where ex- government officials or serving officials come to answer for their conduct or performance in offices they occupy, or have occupied or whatever only to have them performing fainting spells or laying claims to one ailment or another. After which the next news tells us the person has or has to travel for medical checks in some far away country for maximum comfort. Anyway COVID-19 has effectively taken care of that, thank God. May be there is some good in this coronavirus pandemic after all; it has effectively curbed the appetite for foreign travels whether on health grounds or for “hands on, first hand, eyewitness” training or tour or whatever. For this, we say thank you coronavirus, thank you COVID-19! We are witnesses to ministers or executives come to these public hearings with no inkling of what their mandates are (this could be deliberate though) and they get away with making nonsense of the process. We say nothing and no action is ever taken or considered. Because they believe we are stupid and we lend credence to their belief. The politicians have long discovered our weak points and have gone for the weakest link. On our part as a people, we seem to have failed in this regard because we continually fall into their traps or simply happily walk with them. Let us take a look at the latest drama. In the two decades of its establishment, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has recorded no known landmark. Before the NDDC was OMPADEC that folded up amidst financial scandals and till date, we are yet to know or hear what actually transpired or happened. The NDDC has been bedevilled by all manner of financially-induced scandals. And the tragedy is that at every given point in time there are always persons coming together under some bogus associations or umbrella bodies to defend these “very important personalities” that suck the commissions or agencies dry. Watching the House Committee hearing, I just felt nothing but hollow in the pit of my stomach. For all it’s worth, what has slapping Akpabio or being the only woman in Nigeria to have ever slapped Akpabio got to do with anything? Is there a contest? Who is taking or keeping records of slaps received by the man from women in Nigeria? Again, who cares and what has it got to do with anything? Trivialities? Frivolities? More of affront to our dignity as a people. And yet the social media and even mainstream media felt it was worth touting. Great! Hmm! As if that was not bad enough, our senses are further assailed by the Professor fainting or attempting to faint while being questioned. Then comes the man himself, Akpabio “I’m happy because Awka Ibom people are happy.” In Akpabio’s case, we are baffled; was that just careless talk? Or was it serious? Because days later it is reported that the man has apologised to the House members. Was the apology a reaction to the threat of lawsuit? Intimidation or what happened? Is there a point to all of these so-called hearings and investigations? There would have been if we the people had the right attitude. With these mind-boggling revelations on the NDDC, it is disheartening that there are no protests or serious stand by the people of the Niger Delta. The people are not asking questions and they certainly do not want the people appointed to superintend this commission to be questioned. This applies to all of us Nigerians; we do not ask questions, do not want to hold anybody accountable and will deliberately jeopardise and even sabotage any process designed or established to accomplish such. There is a forensic audit commissioned by the President to audit the commission, is the House hearing designed to undermine it? All of this mudslinging may just be a means to compromise the process. Hmmm! The weakest link is our love for sensation and sensationalism. We lap up unsubstantiated information; we malign those who thrive in their own small way to call for accountability. We go in search of miracles and manner from heaven so we won’t have to assert any effort towards achieving anything. We become chained to words of supposed men of God and forget to man our fields. We watch them being honoured and raised by men of God and look the other way or simply accept it as ordained. Our weak points lie in our unfortunate refusal to process events, information and news. This way we do not have to face up to reality and this is why we judge people not on merit but on beliefs and ethnicity. And because of this weakness we are divided and because we are divided we cannot in all honesty call anyone to accountability or demand for answers. We have to get out of this self-affliction in order to get it right. We cannot continue to blame the government when we are the government. The power to form a government or determine who governs us lies with us but we continually refuse to exercise it or deploy it. 