The President Muhammadu Buhari administration has been lauded for creating more awareness and tackling corruption more than previous administrations. The former Dean, School of Post-Graduate Studies, Nasarawa State University, Prof. Suleiman Aruwa, stated this in an interview with journalists recently. Prof Aruwa said the National Anti-Corruption Strategy of 2017 with 5 cardinal points on how to fight corruption is laudable. He however noted the need to holistically implement the strategy. Prof Aruwa, who is a Council member of the University called for more synergy among the Anti-Corruption agencies to make them more effective. “But there is no holistic implementation of the strategy. That is why there is no synergy in the anti-corruption war. “There must be a coordinating agency to share information. The agencies are just working to outshine each other. Buhari will leave a legacy of bringing a strategy but didn’t implement it fully.” He said EFCC has done well within its capabilities and need to be protected. “It is an institution and can’t be separated from Nigerian attitude, they can’t be separated from malpractices. However they are only waiting for thieves. “This government like no other has created more awareness on corruption.  That they are investigating EFCC should be commended. “We should build institutions that makes it impossible for people to steal. Build institutions with preventive measures to curb stealing. ICPC and EFCC are waiting for those who steal to prosecute and recover loot from them. “The people waiting to steal are more than those stealing. So everyone is waiting for opportunity to steal. Value orientation is at lowest ebb. We don’t see anything wrong with stealing in Nigeria. Thieves are being celebrated.” He said that the problem of weak institutions has affected the fight against corruption. He called on the Government and Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) to reach a common ground on the running of the universities. “It is not good that government enter into agreements and fail to meet up. ASUU should also be reasonable and be interested in the quality of learning and teaching. Though they fought alot to improve structure and funding. They shouldn’t oppose the technological advancement in the ivory tower, we should be supportive in bringing innovations and forget about other soft issues. “The state of our universities is a function of national leadership. We are expected to be different in character in terms of learning. Nigerians are being appointed Vice-chancellors abroad, but here the indigene factor is a consideration. We need quality people to man our universities. We need to advance knowledge, conduct research and be visible internationally to be respected. “Salary is poor, access to funding research is poor. Research funding is available, to access them the rigidity of assessment is a problem. People want to see visible advantages of projects.” 