The presidential task force (PTF) on COVID-19 yesterday revealed that only five states out of 36 states of the federation account for 60 per cent of confirmed cases of coronavirus in the country. The chairman of the taskforce and secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha, explained that “689 out of 774 local government areas have so far reported a case, 85 in 20 states still remain with no testing done and no case reported, while 50 per cent of all cases are in 20 per cent of the local government areas. He further noted that Nigeria, with 46,577 confirmed cases and 945 cumulative deaths remains the third and fourth highest in these parameters respectively. The SGF stated: “As we emphasized at the last briefing, Nigeria is yet to reach the peak of the pandemic. Therefore, the low test/ case confirmation numbers coming out daily should not be misinterpreted to mean that we have overcome. “We have over time ramped up testing but more needs to be done to raise the quantum of test per million.” On the new phase of the eased lockdown, the PTF chairman said, “As we progress in this new phase of the eased lockdown, continual monitoring of global and national science and data remains the basis for strengthening our efforts to contain the virus. “Key sectors that the PTF will be watching in addition to general level of compliance are the education and transportation sectors. Schools are gradually reopening with the commencement of preparations for critical examinations. Guidelines have already been issued by the Federal Ministry of Education to all stakeholders”. He noted that many survivors are telling their stories and sharing them in the social media. According to him, the stories of those who doubted the existence of the virus and became unfortunately infected and are now expressing appreciation for timely intervention of the case management team provide compelling proof that the virus is real. On his part, national coordinator of the PTF, Dr Sani Aliyu, said the cases of positivity of COVID-19 is gradually coming down as the daily results now revolves around 400 as against 700 daily cases recorded before. Speaking at the daily briefing of the PTF, Aliyu however warned that the reduction was not in a way a win over COVID-19, just as he noted that all the non-pharmaceutical guidelines must be followed to achieve full success in the fight against COVID-19. Also speaking, the minister of health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, said the country has recorded 46,577 cases from 317,496 samples tested so far, while 33,186 persons have been treated and discharged. He continued: “Sadly, 945 persons have been lost to the COVID-19 infection, which has now been identified in 549 of our 774 Local government areas. “Half of all cases in Nigeria so far are concentrated in 20 Local Government areas, which could offer the attractive option of targeted attention, to focus on case finding, Isolation and treatment”. The minister of Health reiterated the need for Nigerians to adhere to non-pharmaceutical measures. He said, “The figures show that Nigeria is also sadly approaching the symbolic 1,000 number of fatalities, a grim reality that should be a wakeup call for us.” He said until there is vaccine, the only options are still the non-pharmaceutical measures that are proven to be cheap and effective, such as the appropriate use of face masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds. The minister continued: “The urgency is accentuated by the need to prepare for societal changes that will arise as the economy reopens with increased transportation, trade and human interaction, including possible reopening of air travel. “We must make an effort to balance the benefits of a reactivated economy with the need to keep citizens safe, with no loss in gains so far made.” He stressed that government focus was still to reduce fatality to less than 1 per cent, not only with preventive measures, but also with a strategy that encourages citizens to report early for treatment and for hospitals to attend to all patients in distress; most importantly to be able to provide oxygen treatment. “The main covid19 symptoms include breathlessness, which responds well to oxygen supplementation as first measure. We are turning our preferences therefore to gadgets that provide oxygen, like oxygen generators to be in many facilities, including General hospitals and larger PHCs. Solar powered aggregates, where available, will be prioritized”, he added. Speaking further, the minister noted that the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) Guidelines 2020 has been approved by the National Council on Health (NCH). 31 COVID-19 Deaths Didn’t Occur In Our Isolation Centres – Oyo Govt The Oyo State Task Force on COVID-19 yesterday disclosed that although 31 deaths have been recorded in the state since the index case of the virus was discovered in March, none of the fatalities took place in the isolation centres set up by the state government. The task force explained the Isolation Centres run by the state had recorded zero fatality since the outbreak of COVID-19 in the state, in March 2020. This feat, the Task Force noted, was due to the holistic approach adopted by medical personnel managing the COVID-19 situation. The Task Force added that medical personnel at the state’s isolation centres regularly embarked on comprehensive assessment of patients, proper management of any underlying ailment and a robust nutrition and exercise regimen. A statement by the chief press secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, who doubles as one of the risk communication coordinators of the Oyo State COVID-19 task force, Taiwo Adisa, stated that even though 31 deaths had been recorded in the state since the index case of the virus was discovered in March, none of the fatalities took place in the isolation centres set up by the state government. 