***Says Day Schooling no longer an option because of COVID-19 As schools prepare for the West Africa Examination Certificate examination, K-BOLS International Secondary School, has assured that it will not compromise the health protocols designed to keep students and staff safe from contracting COVID-19. The management of K-BOLS International Secondary School, a full boarding school in Abuja, stated this while stating its readiness for WAEC and the school resumption. Briefing students who are preparing to commence their WAEC Examination, the teachers and other Non-Teaching Staff of the school, the school management affirmed the need to observe all the preventive measures and protocols against COVID-19 into consideration as laid- down by Federal Ministry of Education, NCDC and WHO. According to the director and head of School, Mrs Omobolanle Abiola, all visitors to the school, including the WAEC External Supervisors must wear their Face masks and observe the Proper Hygiene Protocol right from the main gate of the school during the WAEC Examination. The Director and Head of School used this opportunity to inform and appraise the general public of the school’s readiness to fully resume whenever government announces. She emphasised that “only Boarding Schools with required facilities are the safest learning place post Covid-19 School Resumption, noting that day schooling is no longer an option. “Established Guidelines of the school includes:
Compulsory use of Face Masks by students, teachers, Non-Teaching Staff of the school; Compulsory proper hand-washing protocol are located at the School Gate Administrative Office, Academic Blocks, Dinning/Kitchen and Hostels;
Daily disinfection of all the classes and Dinning Hall before and after use. Others are Weekly fumigation of Hostel Rooms, Offices and the school’s premises; Weekly Treatment of all Water Systems in the school; Proper Personal physical exercises and healthy protocols. She said the school has opened both K-BOLS International Secondary School has opened both Offline and Online Admission process for 2020/2021 Academic Session. The director prayed for success of students of K-BOLS International Secondary School and all other students who are writing this year WASSEC (SC) 2020 and wish the Examination Body Hitch Free Conduct of the Examination.