The Debt Management Office (DMO) has described as false and misleading a report alleging corruption and embezzlement in the organisation. It would be recalled that a national dailies had on Friday carried a report titled: “Alleged N1.08bn corruption scandal hits DMO,” where the writer claims there was corruption activities in the agency. But the DMO stated that the story is “false, full of lies and the documents referred to in the report have been twisted and distorted with the intention to misinform the general public and discredit the institution.” According to the statement, the management said the DMO is an “accountable, transparent and responsible organization that works in accordance with laid down civil service procedures and it is highly regarded by Multilateral Agencies and financial institutions as a reputable Government Agency.” The debt office said the ‘misleading’ report was sponsored by disgruntled persons who are hell bent on painting the DMO and its management in bad light. The statement reads further, “The sponsors of the story are disgruntled elements who have not only breached the Civil Service Rules but have also contravened laid down procedures for dealing with official matters. The statenent said the officials behind the allegations are in-house staff who  have resorted to illegally leaking official documents due to their recent redeployment. The DMO said the hands behind the unfounded allegations have colluded with other disgruntled persons who have failed in their attempts to control the running of the affairs of the DMO, which has blocked their ability to pilfer public funds. The story referred to documents that, on their own, are incomplete and do not reflect the whole story or the purpose of any transaction. “The claims that events and travels by officials of the DMO either did not take place or did not hold are false and an attempt to discredit the impeccable records of the organization. These speak to their desperation to give the institution a bad name,” the DMO stated in a rejoinder to the report that was published yesterday. “It is unfortunate that a reputable news medium such as Vanguard would lower its guard by allowing its platform to be used to promote falsehood by disgruntled and fraudulent elements in the DMO without cross-checking with the management of the organization. “The DMO, in line with laid down Civil Service Regulations, will brief relevant security agencies in the country to thoroughly investigate the sources of the documents, on which the sponsors based their story, with a view to bringing the perpetrators to book in line with Public Service Rules No. 030401 and 030402 which prescribes dismissal for unauthorized disclosure of official information as a serious act of misconduct,” the statement added. 