–Say Leaked Video Mischievous A member of the security committee in Zamfara State, Dr. Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi has declared that former Inspector General of Police (IGP) and chairman of the Committee, Mohammed Abubakar never collected N11Million from any Emir to compromise the report of the Committee as alleged in an audio recoding in circulation. Shinkafi, a former governorship candidate in the state, further described the circulation of the leaked audio connected to the former Inspector General of Police as a laughable and childish act of mischief. The purported recording claimed that the former former IGP allegedly received N11 million from an Emir to compromise the outcome of their investigation. Shinkafi who was the immediate past gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 2019 general election accused desperate politicians of being behind the audio recording, stressing that they demonstrated their enmity for the state. Noting that the ad-hoc committee has executed it’s assignment within the terms of reference, he said it is the prerogative of the governor to either implement or reject the recommendations of the committee. He said the intention of the sponsors of the audio clip was to bring Zamfara back to the olden days of darkness when kidnapping, abduction and killings were the order of the day. Shinkafi said, “it is surprising that, in the said clip an allegation was made against the former IGP that an Emir bribed him with N11 million to compromise the outcome of their investigation. The allegation is not only laughable but childish which shall be investigated by the government.“ He said Governor Matawalle has done well in restoring peace in Zamfara State, adding that from education, health and other critical areas of human development, his party, APGA will remain supportive of the Matawalle led government if he continues the way he is going. He however called on the governor and the commissioner of Police to order the immediate investigation and prosecution of those behind the audio recording before they drag Zamfara State in the mud. Also he called on the director general of the State Security Service (SSS) to immediately withdraw the personnel attached to a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon Sani Jaji alleging that the former lawmaker is using them to harass and intimidate people in the state. While asking the former lawmaker to apply to the IGP for security protection, Shinkafi said, “There are three former governors of Zamfara State, and by virtue of their former offices as former Executive Governors namely His Excellency Mallam Yahaya Abdulkareem, he has no truckload Of DSS operatives in his house or as escort, Senator Ahmed Rufai Sani, Alhaji Mamuda Aliyu Shinkafi are all former Governors and they don’t have truckloads Of DSS Personnel in their houses or as escorts. “There are several serving and former senators and members of the House of Representatives in Zamfara State and none of them has a truckload of DSS Personnel attached to him as escort. “We demand the immediate withdrawal of the DSS Personnel attached to Hon. Sani Jaji as he is not entitled such retinue of security men.”