Sesame farmers in Ebonyi State at the weekend, urged Governor David
Umahi to build a sesame seed processing plant to boost sesame farming
in the State. The farmers said, the plant if established, it would be the only one
in the South-East region, adding that its economic prospects,
especially job creation and revenue generation, could not be
overemphasized. The State Chairman of National Sesame Seed Association of Nigeria
(NSSA), Mr. Ernest Nwafor, who made the appeal during the
launching/inauguration ceremony of the Association in Abakaliki, noted
that the entire South-East and South-South regions had no sesame seed
processing plant. According to him, there are only three Sesame seed processing plants
in the whole of Nigeria: two in Kano and one in Lagos. In the whole of
Southeast and South-south geopolitical zones, there is no singular
sesame seed processing plant. “Your Excellency, we use this medium to appeal to your good office to
establish an ultramodern Sesame seed processing plant in Ebonyi to
serve the whole of the former Eastern region and beyond. Sir, the
economic prospects and possibilities of this singular investment
cannot be underestimated or overemphasized, especially in terms of
employment and revenue generation”, Nwafor said. In his remark, the National President of NSSA, Alh. Sheriff Balogun,
said the inauguration of the Association in Ebonyi State couldn’t have
come at a better time, adding that all hands must be on deck to
diversify the country’s economy to the non-oil sector with agriculture
as the mainstay. Balogun noted that Ebonyi was the first State in the entire Southern
Nigeria to successfully launch and inaugurate her State chapter of the
Association, and commended Governor Umahi and the people of the State
for embracing Sesame farming. The Ebonyi State Governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for
Agriculture and Natural Resources, Mr. Nomeh Moses Ogodo-Ali, assured
Sesame farmers in the State of government’s readiness to assist and
give them enabling environment to operate.