The reelection bid of the Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on Thursday, got a major fillip as over 1000 health and environmental volunteers from the 18 local government areas of the state declared their support for the second term bid of the governor and his deputy and running mate, Rt. Hon. Comr. Philip Shaibu. The volunteers under the aegis of Young Environmental Health Officers Forum (YEHOF) also promised to mobilise over 5, 000 other voters across the 18 local government areas to ensure victory for Obaseki and his deputy so as to sustain the administration’s people-centric projects and reforms. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, coordinator of the forum, who represented the other volunteers, Joy Oluwagbohunmi, noted that the decision to back the governor in the September 19, 2020 poll was on account of the government’s sterling performance in the first term, which has translated to better livelihoods and well-being for majority of the people. The coordinator noted: “As volunteers across the 18 local government areas of Edo State, we have seen the many achievements of Governor Obaseki in all sectors and we are impressed, hence, we decided to support him to consolidate on the successes recorded in his first term. “We want continuity of the governor’s people-centric governance; his laudable projects are there for everyone to see. From the State Secretariat Complex and the 55MW CCE-TC Ossiomo Power Plant, which have been completed and ready for use, to the 5500bpd Edo Modular Refinery, the Benin Enterprise and Industrial Park, among other legacy projects, the governor has continued to earn the love and support of the majority of Edo people.” “How more can we appreciate the governor than mobilise our people across the state to ensure his reelection? On September 19, 2020, we will come out en masse with our Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVCs) to vote for the PDP,” she reassured. On her part, Public Relations Officer of the forum, Rebecca Imuentiyan, noted: “The governor has redefined governance, thereby improving the living standards of the people. He has performed exceedingly well across all sectors, including waste management and erosion control. With his projects and programmes in the last three years and eight months, Obaseki has shown that he means well for the people of Edo; with him Edo is in safe hands.” Urging all youths to ensure the governor’s reelection, the PRO added: “This election is not just about Obaseki but Edo people. This is time for all youths to come out and decide the future of our dear state. Our fathers have played their parts, but this is the time for us, as young people, to decide our fate.”