The federal government has issued 700 forms per local government under the Special Public Works (SPW) programme. The form would cut across market women in the 27 local government area of the state, CAN, NURTW, and traditional rulers in the three zones of the state, for onward distribution to the affected persons. Chairman of the Imo State Selection Committee for the federal government’s Special Public Works (SPW) programme, Okenze Sylvester Obinna advised those saddled with the responsibility of issuing out the forms for the job to guard against any act of malpractices, warning that government would not tolerate any discrimination on the basis of gender, ethnicity or religion. Okenze, who gave the warning at a meeting of the committee held in Owerri,  said it would be followed up by open recruitment, with necessary mechanism already put in place to check possible malpractices. “Your brief is to recruit one thousand (1000) persons per local government area on the basis of equity, fairness and justice and your appointment letters have now empowered you legally and morally in this all important National assignment.” He explained that the objective of the SPW programme was to enlist for employment on adhoc basis, Nigerians who are not gainfully employed for public works in order to give them a means of livelihood and to restore their faith in the country and the government particularly in this period of COVID-19. pandemic now ravaging the globe. Stressing that the national assignment has both spiritual and physical dimension, Obinna disclosed that the forms had been customized and embossed with some security features and that every local government Area had its own forms meant for the recruitment of Nigerians who are residents there. This, he said had been done to curb sharp practices and ensure that the selection process is all inclusive and representative of all segments of the state. While urging them to observe the cardinal virtues of kindness, fairness patience and diligence, the SPW chairman stressed that the forms are free of charge, adding that 20% of Graduate Recruitment in all the LGAs should be implemented.