Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has declared today
Friday, 21 as public holiday in the state in commemoration of the new Islamic year. According to a statement signed by the state Head of Service, Sani
Garba Shunni, the decision to declare the public holiday followed the
declaration of Friday, 21st August, 2020 as 1st Muharram 1442, by the
Sultanate Council. “The general public is hereby informed that the State Governor, Hon.
Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, CFR, (MUTAWALLEN SOKOTO), has declared
tomorrow, Friday, 21st August, 2020 as a Public Holiday in
commemoration of the new Islamic Year, 1442 AH. “The Governor wishes the entire Muslim Ummah a happy new Islamic year
as well as Allah’s guidance and blessings. He also enjoins people of
the state to continue to pray for peace and progress in the state and
the country in general.” An earlier statement from the Sultanate Council, signed by the
chairman, Advisory Committee on Religious Affairs, Sultanate Council,
Prof Sambo Wali Junaid, said the committee did not receive any report
from the various moon sighting committee of the sighting of the new
moon of Muharram 1442 AH. The statement read in part, “The Sultanate Council Advisory Committee
on Religious Affairs in conjunction with the National Moon Sighting
Committee sis not receive any report from the various Moon Sighting
Committees across the country confirming the sighting of the New Moon
of Muharram 1442AH, on Wednesday, 19th August, 2020 which was  the
29th day of Zulhija 1441AH. Therefore, Thursday, 20th August, 2020
will be the 30th Zulhija 1441AH. “His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar CFR, mni, the Sultan of
Sokoto and President General Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic
Affairs (NSCIA) has accepted the report and accordingly declared
Friday 21st August 2020 as the first day of Muharram 1442AH. “His Eminence, the Sultan felicitates with the Nigerian Muslim Ummah
and wishes them Allah’s guidance and blessings. The Sultan while
urging the Muslim Ummah to continue to pray for peace, progress and
development of the country, wishes all Muslims a happy New Year.”