The country director of OXFAM in Nigeria, Mr. Constant Tchona has advocated the need for government at all levels to leverage on financial literacy in order to boost youth empowerment. He disclosed this in Lagos yesterday at a webinar organised by OXFAM in collaboration with Nigeria Youth Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) network to commemorate this year’s International Youth day with the theme, “Youth Engagement for Global Action” Tchona hinted that governments should prioritise interventions on safe guarding the livelihood of young people by creating resilient social safety nets. He appealed to the federal government to build various support networks, financial regulatory framework and innovative systems. The country director said though the COVID-19 pandemic unveiled many challenges, that there is a need to explore various mediums to engage youths at both the local and international level. According to him, “Young people in Nigeria need to develop innovative solutions, adopt creative mechanism and rebrand to meet the numerous needs which have helped to place their communities ahead of the curve, thereby providing lifesaving systems”. In his address, the youth employment Analyst at International Labour Organisation (ILO). Mr Dino Correll sought for a large scale policy that would protect human and labour rights irrespective of the pandemic. On his part, the director, United Nations Information Center, Dr. Ronald Kayanja disclosed that youths are great assets if engaged and supported, adding that it would facilitate peace, security, climate resilience and sustainable development in the country. One of the panelists, Advisor, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abiodun Eshiet noted that youths should hold the local government accountable on public spendings and use their collective voice to change local narratives. At the end, three winners emerged from the Innovation Challenge (#IYDInnovationChallenge) out of over 113 entries submitted between July 26 and August 9, 2020. The winners were FavDoctor: a telemedicine service that connects patients to fully qualified and registered medical professionals from the comfort of their homes; Salubata: a social enterprise that recycles plastic bottles into affordable sandals and shoes and Green Axis, a recycling enterprise empowering women and girls in Eastern Nigeria. They will receive N300, 000 cash prizes in total, including mentoring, media coverage and a chance to pitch at the 2020 global innovation challenge.