A law firm, A A Jatau & Co. Legal Practitioners and Corporate Consultants based in Yola, has issued 7-day ultimatum to Periscope Global Publishers Limited, to tender unreserved apology over alleged libel published against its clients Hon. Ja”afar Abubakar Magaji, member representing Mubi-North Mubi-South and Maiha federal constituency and Hon. Isa Yahaya member representing Maiha in the state Assembly. The legal practitioners in an open letter Thursday in Yola alleged that, the online publication titled “Monarch in Maiha” was fabricated report,  thereby grossly affects the political reputation and image of the two lawmakers, in the eyes and minds of the good people of the state, specially the indigenes of Maiha LGA. “It may interest you to know that, our clients have never stand as a surety or guarantee security for anybody anywhere in Nigeria as alleged in the publication. “It is to your knowledge that, the leadership fracas of Jalingo-Maiha District has become a major source of concern to the good people of Maiha LGA, Adamawa state. “Furthermore we wish to emphasize for the purpose of record that, our clients performed and celebrated Eid-El-Kabir Sallah in Yola and Mubi respectively. “Our clients have no role to play on who will be the Head of any traditional institutions nor have input. “We therefore give seven days to retract the publication and tender unreserved apology to our clients” the letter added. The Periscope online, had on 1st August this year published that, “The lawmakers orchestrated to dissention for anarchy to the history of monarchy in Jalingo-Maiha are those who stand surety for the alleged impostor (name withheld) to continue his romance with contempt of court and executive orders in Jalingo-Maiha.” The publication allegedly report that, “The lawmakers arrived Jalingo-Maiha unceremoniously at night and the duo observed Eid prayers in the morning. Source from the publisher alleged that the letter is yet to formally get to the attention of the Periscope Global Publishers for any action. “However, is the letter supposed to request an apology from the Periscope or from the aggrieved youth in Maiha that made the allegation reported by the Periscope,” the source added. 