Access Bank Plc yesterday announced its Zambia subsidiary  has entered into a definitive agreement with Cavmont Capital Holdings Zambia (CCHZ) Plc regarding a proposed acquisition of its subsidiary Cavmont Bank Limited and subsequent merger of both Banks. Access Bank in a release on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) said “The proposed transaction, which remains subject to relevant shareholder and regulatory approvals will position the enlarged Access Bank Zambia as one of the top 10 banks in Zambia and create the momentum to advance its strategic objectives. “This is a highly complementary transaction, combining Acess Bank Zambia’s wholesale and trade finance capabilities with Cavmont Bank’s retail and commercial banking operations. “Customers of the enlarged bank will benefit from greater security offered by what will be one of the most capitalised banks in Zambia with a more diversified product and service offering and a broader geographical footprint and infrastructure. The enlarged bank will be well-placed to participate in the long-term economic growth of Zambia, predicated on the country’s vast reserves of natural resources and fast-growing young population.” According to the statement, under the terms of the agreement, Access Bank Zambia will acquire the entire issued ordinary share capital, assets and liabilities of Cavmont Bank while Capricorn Group Limited, the ultimate majority shareholder of CCHZ, will invest at least ZMW300 million ($165 million) of preference shares into Access Bank, Zambia. Capricorn will hold preference shares in the enlarged A82 for a period of five years, after which the preference shares will be acquired by Access Bank Plc. The transaction is expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2020. Speaking on the transaction, Group managing director of Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe said, “Access Bank is focused on building the scale needed to become a leading bank in its key operating markets through leveraging the right partnerships.” Wigwe said “This transaction underscores our approach and is another stepping stone towards delivering on our strategic aspirations of becoming the World’s most respected African Bank and Africa’s gateway to the World. It will strengthen our presence in Zambia, while furthering our footprint for growth in the COMESA region, Africa’s largest free trade area.” He added that “Over the years, we have worked hard to build a sustainable international bank of African origin that can expand the potential of businesses, support economic prosperity, facilitate trade and investment and extend the power of banking to millions of people who do not yet have the financial tools to achieve their dreams. This proposed transaction aligns mom with that strategy”. The managing director of Capricorn Group, Thinus Prinsloo said that Access Bank is an African banking Group with an impressive growth trajectory and geographic reach across Africa and internationally, saying that this transaction is an excellent strategic fit with Cavmont Bank’s presence in Zambia and will strengthen the capital base from, which to achieve long-term sustainable growth.