... India To Strengthen Health, Education, Sectors As It Marks Independence Day The High Commissioner of India to Nigeria, Mr. Abhay Thakur has said the COVID-19 pandemic has strengthened e-Business and trade relations between Nigeria and India. Thakur who spoke at the flag hoisting ceremony held in commemoration India’s 74th Independence Day said Nigeria and India have had a reasonable success in the fight against the pandemic, a sign that both governments have done much in containing the spread of the virus. Among the efforts of both governments is the online shared experience and expertise on COVID-19 health challenges and policing.
The times has also witnessed heightened eBusiness interactions between chambers of commerce in Nigeria and India, in addition to stabilizing trade level, in particular, oil price exchanges. “Despite the challenges our trade level has remained steady. I think it’s rewarding for both Nigerian and India, its big buyer, that oil prices have rebounded and steadied. A new discovery is the constant virtual business discussions. There are ongoing interactions between Abuja Chamber of Commerce, Lagos Chamber of Commerce, Nigeria Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), and the India business chambers which was not happening before. What this time has shown is the resilience of our business links.” Further noting that the pandemic has proven the capacity and reliability of direct flights between both countries, he added, “Over the last three months we have repatriated and enabled the travel of more than 5,500 Indians from Nigeria to India, and hundreds of Nigerians in India were able to return to Nigeria. Likewise, a large number of permanent Indian residents under ‘projects and essential businesses’.” Referencing Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence address which highlighted the step-up of key sectors such as health and education, the High Commissioner said India plans a multi-faceted strategy to improve its education and healthcare systems post COVID-19 pandemic. India, he said, is strengthening its traditional medicine through yoga and Ayurveda practices that are innate, popular and accessible to all India. Second, besides its focus on vaccine production via its Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech Company, the country aims at the provision of low-cost and mass-produced medical formulations to enable massive testing of all citizens. “(We) plan a large-scale outreach, that means, to reach out at an affordable cost to a large population. One of the key things that have been done by a lot of India institutions is production of very low-cost testing kits, for example in educational institutions that just for a few 100 rupees test can be conducted on every student that makes it possible that at some stage, hopefully sooner rather than later for educational institutions to tackle this problem. “Testing is high in India. We have also found of late, particularly in Delhi, that a number of the population that were tested appeared to have developed anti-bodies. This is a lesson for India and other countries,” concluded Thakur.