The crisis rocking the All Progressive Party( APC) in Enugu State may have finally been laid to rest as aggrieved members of the party loyal to the foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyema have pledged their loyalty to the state chairman, Dr Been Nwoye. It would be recalled that the party was engulfed in serious crisis after it’s last Congress, a development that led to factionalization of the party. Since the last Congress , all efforts made by many stakeholders of the party to resolve the crisis met brick walls, a development many said led to the poor performance of the party in past elections. But the two factions met recently and resolved their differences, disclosing that their decision to embrace peace was informed by their burning desire to move the party forward with a view to winning future elections in the state. Addressing journalists after inaugurating the Contact and Mobilization Committee of the party led a former Deputy Chairman of the party, Alphonsus Ude, The chairman of the party, Nwoye said he reached out to stakeholders of the party including the minister to inform them of his intention to bring back the unity that once existed in the party. Nwoye expressed happiness that all the stakeholders including the foreign affairs minister gave nod to his appeal for peace to return to the party. He assured that with the return of peace to the party, APC was now poised to wrestle power from People’s Democratic Party in future Elections in the state Nwoye urged members of the newly inaugurated Contact and mobilization committee to live up to the expectations of the APC family and ensure that they strengthen the party for future elections. He expressed hope that with the Calibre of people in the committee, he has no doubt that the committee will succeed. In his acceptance speech, Ude, who was deputy to the defunct faction of the party led by one Okey Ogbodo thanked Nwoye for giving him opportunity to serve. He, however, insisted that all hands must be on deck for the party to perform well in future elections, advising that efforts to reposition the party should not be left for the officials of the party alone. 