Ahead of the Oct. 10 governorship election in Ondo State, Dr Jimoh Ibra- him, has officially dumped the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) yes- terday.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ibrahim also donated 20 Kia Picanto cars to Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, APC candidate, towards his re-election campaign. Ibrahim, who was presented with APC membership card number 12852630 in Igbotako, Okitipupa lo- cal government area of the state, said
he defected to the APC to work for Ak- eredolu’s re-election bid. The business mogul and politician, who was a factional PDP candidate in the 2016 governorship election, said he would deploy resources to ensure Ak- eredolu’s re-election. “Today, I am officially joining the APC and donating the campaign vehicles to support Akeredolu; I will pull resourc- es and do everything humanly possi- ble for his re-election because of his impressive performance in the state. “I brought PDP into reckoning in the state and I will as well withdraw my support from the party. I will channel resources to dislodged PDP and oth- er parties in the state in favour of Ak- eredolu. What happened in 2016 will replay again for Akeredolu to win.
“I urge all residents in the Southern district to go out enmasse and vote for APC on Oct.10,” Ibrahim said.
Akeredolu, while receiving Ibrahim to APC, lauded him for joining the APC and donating the campaign vehicles at the crucial time. He expressed his appreciation to Ibrahim for his show of love.
The governor described Ibrahim
as a helping angel who chose to help against all odds. “Indeed, I was so happy for this rare show of love by Ibrahim because he acted like an angel sent to me.
“I urge all residents to ensure you go all out to vote APC in the coming elec- tion,” Akeredolu said. NAN reports that the former gover- nor of Borno State, Ali-Modu Sherrif, the state APC chairman, Ade Adetime- hin, party chieftains and supporters from all the 18 LGA’s, government functionaries and traditional rulers were present at the ceremony.