 A retired Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Boniface Oye-Adeniran, has urged the
Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to investigate the sacked
vice-chancellor of the institution, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe. In a petition obtained by LEADERSHIP,
Oye-Adeniran is asking the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
(EFCC) to commence investigation into the award of contracts “in
direct violation of extant regulations” of UNILAG and the country. The petition is titled, “Acts of Financial Crime by Professor
Oluwatoyin Ogundipe(former Vice Chancellor University of Lagos),
Professor Folashade Ogunshola(former Vice Chancellor University of
Lagos), Mr Lekan Lawal(Bursar of the University of Lagos), and Dr
James Akamu(Director of Procurement University of Lagos)” He alleged that some Tertiary Education Trust Fund projects were
executed and paid for without due process and contrary to the
university’s financial regulations of 2016. “Prof. Toyin Ogundipe exceeded his expenditure limits and approval,
and these projects were done and paid for without the University’s
Tenders Board, Finance and General Purpose Committee, and Governing
Council approval. In addition, these contract awards violated the
Public Procurement Act of 2007 and the University of Lagos Financial
Regulations of 2016”, Oye-Adeniran, a member of UNILAG’s Appointments
and Promotions Board between 2014 and 2018, stated. Oye-Adeniran who was a member of the UNILAG Governing Council from
2017 to 2019 and a former President, Nigerian Medical Association,
further said, “Council at its meeting of September 5, 2018,
constituted a committee to investigate the university’s expenditure
under Prof. Ogundipe as vice-chancellor. “Among others, the committee found against Prof. Ogundipe’s management
that without the Tenders Board, Finance and General Purpose Committee
and Governing Council’s knowledge, approval, and far in excess of his
approval limit of N2,500,000.00, Prof. Ogundipe, in his capacity as
the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, in direct violation of
extant regulations of the university and the country, awarded
contracts. In other cases, awards made by Prof. Ogundipe or under his
leadership did not satisfy the requirements of the Public Procurement
Act. “I am by this petition, respectfully requesting for an urgent
investigation into the award of these various contracts and spending
by and under Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe’s management when he was
vice-chancellor of the university. I have attached comprehensive
documents in support of these allegations and undertake to be
available for this investigation”.