Apprehension yesterday trailed the judgement of the governorship election petitions tribunal voiding the election of Douye Diri as governor of Bayelsa State.  The three-member panel of justices which nullified the November 16 governorship poll on grounds that Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party (ANDP) in the contest was excluded from the contest.  But the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) faulted the verdict of the tribunal, insisting that it excluded ANDP because the party fielded an underage candidate for the poll.  Two members of the tribunal, Justices Owei Woniwei and Yunusa Musa delivered a majority judgement which annulled the election against the minority verdict of the tribunal’s chairman, Justice Ibrahim Sirajo.  Justices Woniwei and Musa, in their majority judgement, held that INEC illegally excluded ANDP and its governorship candidate, King George, from the election.  The justices said they found merit in the petition filed by ANDP challenging its exclusion from the polls.  Consequently, they nullified the election and ordered INEC to conduct a bye-election in the state within 90 days.  But disagreeing with the verdict, Justice Sirajo, said there was evidence that ANDP was disqualified from the election for fielding an ineligible candidate.  He noted that the party nominated an underage deputy governorship candidate, who admitted that he was 34 years old, instead of 35 years as stipulated by the constitution.  ANDP had in its petition at the tribunal contended that INEC unlawfully excluded it from participating in the election despite fulfilling all the statutory requirements.  But INEC maintained that the 2019 Bayelsa governorship election remained valid, just as it argued that ANDP fielded an underage candidate for the polls.  The commission through its national commissioner and chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, who said the ANDP conducted its primaries and submitted the name of one Peter David as its deputy governorship candidate.  Okoye noted that the said candidate was 34 years-old at the time of the submission of the name which is contrary to Section 177(b) of the constitution.   He said, “As at the time of the submission of the name of the said candidate, he was 34 years-old, contrary to Section 177(b) of the constitution that makes it mandatory for a candidate for such office to attain the age of 35 years to be eligible to contest the election.    “In the candidate’s statutory declaration of age and affidavit attached to his form, the party stated that he was born on 10 February, 1985.”  Okoye added that ANDP’s nomination for the election was invalid, stressing that the party did not exercise its right guaranteed in the Fourth Alteration to the constitution by filing its suit within 14 days of the accrual of the said right.  “On Sept. 13, 2019, the commission wrote to the party drawing their attention to the constitutional age requirement of 35 years for Governorship/Deputy Governorship candidates as stipulated in Section 177(b) of the constitution.  “The commission also informed them of the invalidity of their nomination for the November 16, 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa State.”  Okoye also recalled that in response to the letter of the commission dated September 13, 2019, on September 21, 2019, the ANDP wrote to the commission acknowledging the invalidity of its nomination and forwarded the name of one Miss Inowei Janeth as their new deputy governorship candidate.  He however said, “On 27 September, 2019, the commission informed the party that the deadline for the submission of nominations as provided for in the Timetable and Schedule of Activities released by the Commission on 16 May, 2019 was 9 September, 2019.  “The commission also informed the party that since they did not submit a valid nomination, they couldn’t validly substitute any candidate. Consequently, the name and logo of the party did not appear and was not reflected in the ballot paper.  “It is pertinent to note that the party did not exercise its right guaranteed in the Fourth Alteration to the constitution by filing its suit within 14 days of the accrual of the said right as the issues canvassed are pre-election issues.  “The commission may respond to some of the issues raised in the judgment of the tribunal when we are availed of the full judgement and the reasons for the judgement”.  But while INEC was contesting the judgement of the tribunal, jubilation erupted in the camp of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State following news of the.  Party supporters besieged the state secretariat of the opposition party at the Bay Bridge area of the state rejoicing over the new development.  When LEADERSHIP got to APC secretariat at about 3pm, ecstatic party faithful claimed that the nullification of the election and the order for fresh election will afford their flag-bearer, Chief David Lyon another chance to reclaim the mandate he lost on February 13, after the Supreme Court invalidated his victory at the polls over irregularities in the certificate of his running-mate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo.   Diri Goes On Appeal   Meanwhile, Bayelsa State governor and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the election, Senator Douye Diri, yesterday directed his lawyers to file an appeal against the judgement.  Reacting to the nullification of the election, Diri’s acting chief press secretary (CPS), Daniel Alabrah, said the governor will appeal the ruling of the state election petition tribunal sitting in Abuja and has consequently instructed his lawyers to file the necessary papers.  Diri who noted that he has implicit confidence in the judiciary that he would triumph in the end said, “We trust in the judiciary and we are appealing the judgment. With God on our side, we will get justice.  “This is a court of first instance and I have instructed our lawyers to file an appeal. We have a right of appeal even up to the Supreme Court”.  The governor urged PDP members and his supporters not to panic but to remain calm and law-abiding.    It’s Temporary Setback – Dickson   On his part, immediate-past governor òf Bayelsa State, Chief Seriake Dickson, urged Bayelsans not to be perturbed by the judgment of the Election Petition Tribunal.  He described the judgment as a temporary setback which does not affect the status quo until appeal processes are exhausted.   The former governor, in a statement by his media advisor, Mr Fidelis Soriwei, said PDP and the state government would appeal the judgment.  He stressed that there was no vacancy in the Bayelsa Government House as Diri remains governor until a final decision on the issue was reached at the Supreme Court.  Dickson further urged Bayelsans to go about their lawful duties without any disturbance.  He said, “I urge Bayelsans to remain calm. They shouldn’t misinterpret what took place at the tribunal today. The judgment is a temporary setback which does not have any effect on the status quo until all processes of appeal are exhausted.  “There is no vacancy in the Bayelsa Government House. Diri remains Governor until the Supreme Court decides. Of course what this means is that the PDP will appeal this decision,” he said.    State Assembly Members Pay Solidarity Visit To Diri  In a show of solidarity, members of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly led by the Speaker, Abraham Ingobere, yesterday paid a solidarity visit to Governor Diri at Government House, Yeangoa.  Receiving the lawmakers, Diri told them to go ahead with the screening of 24 commissioners-designate whose names he forwarded to the legislature last week.  He said,” I am very sound-minded by your visit. I am aware you are receiving some August visitors by tomorrow in the House.  “Please, you should go ahead and screen the commissioner nominees, and I will swear them in as commissioners. Our government is already on course to deliver to the people”.    Again, APC, PDP Clash Over Conduct of election  In another development, the APC and the PDP yesterday continued their verbal tirade, with the governing party declaring that the opposition party was fast crumbling under the watch of its current national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus.  In a statement signed by its deputy national publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena, the APC told Secondus that the PDP was crumbling under his watch, even as it argued that credible elections had been the new normal under President AMuhammadu Buhari.  Nabena was reacting to a recent comment by the PDP national chairman who took issues with the President Buhari and the APC over the president’s comments that his administration could have used security agencies to overrun states won by the PDP in the 2019 elections but chose to support a democratic process.  The APC spokesperson urged Secondus to focus on his party “which has become shockingly rudderless under his watch”.  APC statement reads: “Under Secondus, the PDP has never had it this bad with the opposition party’s stakeholders detached from the party activities as was witnessed with notable PDP leaders boycotting the Party’s 2019 presidential campaigns and the recent Bayelsa State Governorship bribe-for-ticket scandal that indicted Secondus.  “Little wonder, the recent months have witnessed many PDP members resign their membership due to Secondus activities which have brought the PDP to its knees”.  But in a swift response, PDP said the attempt by APC to justify the military for election comments of President Buhari showed that the APC, as a political party, was dead.   PDP in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that the responsibility of a political party is to engender civic participation in a free, fair and democratic environment, which the APC has brazenly violated in all elections since 2019.  “Rather than allow President Buhari to take to corrections and leave a legacy of a truly democratic electoral process, the unelected and wobbling leadership of the APC is whining over the soaring popularity and gains achieved by the PDP under the leadership of Prince Uche Secondus as our party’s National Chairman.”  The PDP added that it was unfortunate that instead of joining other well-meaning Nigerians in rejecting the undemocratic comments of President Buhari, the APC, being dead to its conscience, chose to support draconian and underhand methods of election.   “Our party asserts that the APC leaders have been distraught and filled with envy and bitterness because the rebranded PDP has since overcome the temporary setback of 2015 to retake its place as the authentic hub for national rebirth; a development that led to the massive support accorded our party by Nigerians in the 2019 Presidential election,” the party added.   The PDP mocked APC leadership for “living in delusion in their vacuous claims that the PDP is losing support under Prince Secondus, when it is on record that Nigerians have continued to abandon the APC and returning to the PDP enmasse, given the manifest failures of the APC and its government.”  Secondus who also responded in a statement by his media aide, Ike Abonyi, said, “APC and its government are in a state of deep unconsciousness, sleeping on duty as the nation groans. In their struggle to say something, they expose their insensitivity to the plight of the populace. A lame and confused party breeds bad government and they together abet poverty in the land.  “God will rescue his people from an unfair regime. When Secondus came to power two and half years ago, PDP controlled 11 states, today they are 17. For APC when they came to office Nigeria was standing today she is crippled, please spot the difference”.   Cowards Using Progressive DG Against Me – Oshiomole   Meanwhile, former national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomole, has said cowards were using the director general (DG) of the Progressive Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman, against him.   While advising the new national leadership of the APC in a letter last week, Lukman had accused Oshiomhole of frustrating the newly inaugurated National Caretaker Committee to ensure that he is returned as the party’s chairman.  But speaking to State House correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday, Oshiomole said he would not engage in a dirty fight with the DG as that would mean soiling himself.   He said, “You want me to engage in a fight with a pig? If you engage in a fight with a pig the pig already is stained by its nature and you will wear your white garment, and in my own case, kaaki to go and wrestle with a pig? I will not.  “When I was removed as national chairman, Edo was APC. So do I have to win Edo to become the chairman? Do I look so unemployed? I’m 68. So, what they don’t understand is that it is not the office of chairman that made me who I am. It is my pedigree from my days as labourer in the textile industry to be the general secretary of textile workers all over Nigeria and becoming the president of NLC.”  Stressing that he is well known in all villages, he stressed that his popularity enabled him override godfathers in Edo State for two consecutive terms and also got the incumbent governor elected before emerging APC national chairman.  “It is like our president now, though I cannot compare myself to him, but it is like President Muhammadu Buhari by 2023, when his tenure would have lapsed as President, those who believe in him, in 2024 and beyond, each time they see him, that trust they have in him will always be there,” he added. 