The Nigerian Society on Engineers (NSE), branch of Maitama district of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have commended the FCT Minister, Mallam Bello Mohammad and the federal government for engaging professional engineers in infrastructural development of the territory and entire Nigeria. Engr. Markus Choji Dye, Chairman of NSE, Maitama branch, who made this known on Saturday, at the 2020 Public Lecture and Induction Ceremony of the branch, with the theme: Nigeria Engineers, Trend and Innovation, said that development in the FCT, has take a new dimension because professional engineers are at work. According to Dye, regulations are in place and some major contracts are not be given to somebody, if he or she is not from the professional engineering family, that although there are some failed roads constructions because some people cut corners to get it. “But this is fading away in the FCT and entire Nigeria, because regulations have set in and the quacks are being sent away from the profession. We have begin to see things going in the right direction in the infrastructural development of the FCT. “Engineers are now being recognized, although, the damage is there, but it will take a little while for the damage to be controlled. But right now, things are turning around for the engineers and the entire society. ‘We are now having square pegs in square holes and round pegs in round holes in the FCT. This is becoming the order of the day and we are getting some attention from the government. Advocacy is getting right to the government and to whomever is in position of authority,” he said. The NSE Maitama branch chairman, also commended the legislatures for backing professional engineers up, in order to ensure that the country moves in the right direction, which has made it possible for professionalism to be recognised. “COREN and NSE are also part of the reform, especially, the recent regulation that was made. There is a review of the Acts and the Acts has empowered engineers to send away quacks, and the frame work is been worked on, so that we will make sure implementation is done. “I want to call on the government to ensure that all other professional bodies in the engineering field are carried along for national development,” he said. Earlier, Engr. Babagana Mohammed, President of The Nigerian Society of Engineers, in his address charged the inducted engineers to make use of opportunities to make themselves useful, rather than waiting for opportunities for the government. Mohammed stressed that the major problem of having jobless engineers is that of systematic problem, urging engineers to be industrious in all ways and be able to make job opportunities for themselves and other in the engineering field.