…As House Fingers, Imo Gov, APC Leaders Over Plot To Take Over Edo Assembly As build up to the September 19th , Edo Governorship election continue to generate political tension, in the state, Members of Edo state House of Assembly, (EDHA), raised the over alarm and accused Imo stay governor, Hope Uzodinma and APC Leaders of plot to violently take over the state Assembly with fake mace. Uzodinma in Swift reaction through his commissioner for Special Projects, Hon Simon Ebegbulem, described the allegation by the house as senseless and baseless. This alarm came shortly after Wednesday plenary impeached the Deputy Speaker, Hon Yekini Idiaye, (Akoko Edo), constituency and the house immediately elected Hon Roland Asoro, member representing Orhionmwo  11 constituency as the new deputy speaker. It was learnt that Idiaye’s suspension is not unconnected with his open support for the Governorship candidate of the All Progressive Congress, APC, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu bring the numbers of lawmakers to support the APC candidate to 17. Recalled that Edo State deputy governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu had called on the people of Akoko-Edo local government area to ask their representatives at the state’s House of Assembly, Hon. Yekini Idiaye and Hon. Emmanuel Agbaje, for their alleged share of the N40 million given to each of them by the former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to influence their support for the APC governorship candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The impeached Deputy Speaker, Hon. Yekini Idiaye, had stated that  he had no reason to join the incumbent Governor in his defection, or to back his re-election bid alleging that the governor has failed to initiate any developmental project in his constituency despite his consistent intervention efforts. The lawmakers after their executive session and plenary where the impeachment of the speaker was perfected was presided over by the Speaker, Hon Frank Okiye and six others which includes, Hon Roland Asoro, Hon Henry Okhuarobo, Hon Emma Okoduwa, Hon Makus Onobu, Hon Sunny Ojezele and Hon Ephraim Arowese. Meanwhile, the speaker raised the alarm on the need call on the Imo state governor, Hope Uzodinma and APC Leaders Over their alleged plans to violently and illegally take over Edo state House of Assembly. The Speaker in a statement circulated to newsmen in Benin City called on President Muhammadu Buhari to “urgently call his governor and others working with him to execute this illegal plans to desist and allow the laws of the state guide them. “The dubious plan by the governor of Imo state, Sen Hope Uzodinma and stakeholders of the APC in Edo state to import a fake mace to take over the Edo state House of Assembly working in cahoots with deputy speaker, who recently declared support for the candidate of the APC to congregate in a secret location to illegally and violently take over control of the assembly has been brought to our notice. “The state polity is already heated by the high political tension from the electioneering campaigns. Their planned action is akin to lighting a match in an already tensed political environment, which conflagration is capable of causing crisis, and of a scale beyond our imagination. “We call on Edo people whose mandate and interest the state’s legislature holds and protects, to rise against this planned attack and plot to subvert their will and subjugate them using external forces. We recognize the constitutional right of the three members of the house to support the candidate of their choice, but that should not distract them from coming to work to carry out the job they were elected for.” Ebegbulem said, “The illegal Speaker and his governor are not making sense to me with this baseless allegation. I don’t even know what they are talking about because there is no House of Assembly in Edo state. I think that is why the so-called Speaker is running away from his shadow like a criminal that will always run once he sees a law enforcement agent. “However, I don’t know why he should draw the leg of His Excellency, Governor Hope Uzodinma into his political problems. My Governor is interested in working with other APC governors and stakeholders to reclaim Edo State which has been an APC state before Governor Obaseki donated it to the PDP. “The illegal Speaker and his principal are already jittery because of the imminent defeat in the coming election. You can see that his aides are resigning everyday including his Deputy Speaker. Now he is left with five lawmakers and does that show that he is in charge?” 