Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Joel Nwachukwu Enwonwu, yesterday
said the escape of alleged serial killer, Sunday Shodipe from lawful
police custody gave him the greatest nightmare in his career. Speaking in Ibadan, the police boss submitted that when he learnt
about the escape of Shodipe, the alleged serial killer in Akinyele
Local Government Area of the state from police custody at Mokola in
Ibadan, the experience gave him sleepless nights until the suspect was
re-arrested by men under his command. It would be recalled that the notorious suspect, who claimed to be 19
years old, supposedly escaped after a police officer, who was said to
be off duty opened the cell for him in order to take a bath. According to him, the incident not only made the Inspector-General
(IG) of police call him, but it raised uproar internationally with
people contacting him from the United States Of America (USA), Italy
and others. “It was the greatest nightmare of my life. I had sleepless nights
because people were saying all sorts of things and they kept calling
me, that I should be removed from my post, even though they knew that
I was not the one responsible for his escape. The society was not fair
to us. “Some said he disappeared. There is nothing like disappearing. The
police officer who opened the cell for him was unprofessional in his
conduct, saying the suspect wanted to take a bath. “He was not even on duty. He collected the key from another officer
who was on duty and opened the cell. They are both in police custody
now and they are going to pay for it, their matters have left Command
level”, Enwonwu added. On the whereabouts of the others, who were also paraded with Sunday
Sodipe earlier, Enwonwu said that they were all still in custody. “I have learnt a bitter lesson with this case. The society is ruthless
and unfair to us, policemen. I felt sad with the reaction of our
people. One policeman caused the embarrassment. You definitely cannot
use one person to judge the whole system.”