…Promise Training, Rehabilitation Programs The candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Edo Governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has said he has no plan to return the loosely organized gangs commonly known as ‘AGBEROS’ to the streets of Edo State, clarifying that he instead intends to rehabilitate and reintegrate them into the society as useful and responsible participants if elected as the next Governor of Edo State. In a statement released on Monday by his Campaign Organization, Ize-Iyamu attributed the false report of his purported plan to return the gangs back to the state to terrorize residents as a deliberate falsehood manufactured and spread by the opposition to deceive the electorates and conceal the hypocrisy and alleged fraud of the incumbent Governor Obaseki. Ize-Iyamu said while Obaseki has merely entrusted power to his own brand of loyal thugs who continue to fleece the state and terrorize the people, he would bring the problem to a conclusive end with a transitional program contained in the Manpower Development section of his SIMPLE agenda meant to rehabilitate and empower the agberos before their re-integration into the society to live responsibly and make useful contributions. The statement signed by Mr. John Mayaki read: “It is important to state categorically that there are no plans to bring “Agberos” to the state as being erroneously peddled by the opposition and their co-travelers.” “Unlike the incumbent who merely politicized the situation and compounded it with his reckless actions that reflect the scattershot approach and unpreparedness of his administration to offer conclusive solutions to the problems confronting Edo State, our manifesto, the SIMPLE agenda has already captured and proffered solutions to the ‘Agbero’ situation, specifically under the ‘M’ which stands for Manpower Development and Training.” “The government of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu will not force all the actors or people referred to as ‘Agberos’ on self-exile to Libya or the Mediterranean Sea to die as they remain sons and daughters of Edo State. Instead, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu will institute a transitional and rehabilitation program for the training and empowerment of these actors to help them become self-sustaining entrepreneurs in a chosen field to help them useful to themselves and the society at large.” “Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu will also take the actors through a re-orientation process that will make their future operations, if any, conform with current global best standards and practices in the revenue collector sectors.” “These are practical plans that will bring this problem to an end. It is not enough to merely replace a set of collectors with another set as the incumbent government has lazily done, despite embarking on a campaign of deceit to blur the facts.” 