Mrs Saudatu Abdulazeez( Iya Ibadan)  is the mother of Risikat. She also speaks with LEADERSHIP Weekend. What is your name? I am Mrs Saudatu Abdulazeez. What is your relationship with Risikat, the mother of the children with blue eyes?  I am the mother of Risikat, she is my first daughter. How old is she? She is about 30 years old. She said that she was born with blue eyes, is it hereditary in the family? No, it is not hereditary. I don’t have it and the father doesn’t have it. But our daughter, Risikat and her children have it.  When she was born, were you not embarrassed that you had a blue-eyed baby?  When she was born, we discovered that she had blue eyes; we were surprised because there was nobody that had such eyes in our family. The father does not have it and I don’t have it. After making enquiry with the people around us, they told us that it was not a disease and we became less worried because it did not affect her vision. But when he was in school, she complained that her mates were making jest of her, we took her to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital for treatment. Doctors told us not to worry as the eyes were normal.  She said that she did not sit for WAEC and NECO Examinations, what happened then?  We had no money to pay during the time of registration for the examination, we didn’t have money, so, she did not pay for the two examinations. We later sent her to learn the sale of medicine and we established a medicine shop for her which she operated before she got married. She continued to operate the shop after she got married to her husband. However, both husband and wife did not manage the business well and they ruined it.  When the husband sent your daughter out, what did you do?  When she came and told us that her husband told her to go back to her parents’ house, we were surprised that he could behave that way because he struggled a lot before he married her. He made several visits to our house before she agreed to marry him. Although, when they got married, Abdulwasiu did not perform his responsibilities well, he was not feeding his family. Though, he is a vulcanizer and he is working, he doesn’t feed our daughter. I’m the one who would buy foodstuff and take it to their home. My husband who is her father will send money to them. We did that for many years. Even, as a result of not performing his responsibilities, Risikat didn’t want to have another child for him after Kaosara, but I begged her to stay with him because I don’t want her to be shifting from one man to another because I didn’t do it. I have stayed in one place with her father since we got married. So I appealed to her and she got pregnant and had the twins.  Have the family of Risikat’s husband come to the father for reconciliation?  No, they have not come. They didn’t bother to come because they were behind the separation. They were the ones that complained that they didn’t like the blue eyes of the children that my daughter had for their son and were the one instigating their son to marry another woman who will give their son children with normal eyes and he acceded to their advice. I, however, regarded him as someone who has nothing to do because one of the twins, Taiwo, who died had normal eyes. Only the female among the twins has blue eyes, but I know that Allah has something significant to do in the life of the children of my daughter and I pray that God’s promise will come to pass.  If the family of the husband of your daughter now decide to come and beg you to take their wife back, will you accept their plea?  It is too late. It is over a year now that my daughter has been with us and they have not bothered to come to us to ask about her and the children, I know that they would not come. Even, Abdulwasiu who comes to see the children occasionally would not enter our house. If they come now, my daughter will no longer marry him, he is not a responsible man.