The Peoples Democratic Party National Campaign Council for Edo Governorship election alleged plots by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to procure extra result sheets for rigging the September 19 Edo governorship election. Secretary, Publicity Sub-Committee National Campaign Council, Kola Ologbondiyan, at a press conference yesterday alleged that former APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole and certain APC leaders have been threatening and mounting pressure on the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Yakubu Mahmood and other officials of the Commission, “to secretly provide them with ballot papers and form EC8 election results sheet to facilitate their plans for ballot stuffing and writing of election results.” He added, “We have further information that the APC and its candidate have marked Edo North senatorial district, as where the extra ballot papers and result sheets would be pushed to APC thugs, including those to be brought in from neighboring Kogi state, to doctor election results for Ize-Iyamu. “Already, a base has been established in a neighboring town of Kogi State which will be used to serve for operations in their callous plots. “Edo North has a borderline with Kogi, a state where unimaginable electoral violence, including burning a woman alive, was perpetrated by the APC in their desperation for electoral manipulation. “The APC plot for the Edo election is reminiscent of last year’s governorship election in Kogi State where different election results sheets found their way to INEC collation centre where they were admitted and declared. “The PDP campaign has information of how two APC governors from the South East and North Central respectively, are spearheading the plan and have also agreed to fund it. “Our campaign invites Nigerians to note that this is the reason the APC candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, is not campaigning but rather mobilizing his group of thugs, cultists and hoodlums, (lions and tigers) as seen in the viral video, to storm polling units to unleash violence on voters, knowing that there is no way he can win in the election.” The PDP campaign said it is already aware of the plots to use the cultists and thugs to convey the illegal ballot papers, result sheets as well as dangerous weapons and charms to various polling units to as well as provide illegal cover for APC agents to doctor results. “Nigerians can now see why Oshiomhole described Ize-Iyamu as a fake pastor. Of course as the saying goes, “show me your friends and I will tell you who you are”. “We believe INEC and security forces have taken note of the direct criminal affront of the law by Ize-Iyamu, in openly directing his cultists and thugs to barefacedly flout election movement restriction order, and move from one polling unit to the other to execute their devilish plots. “Nigerians should also take note of this reckless plot for chaos on election day by Ize-Iyamu, who is plotting to import violence, unleash bloodletting and derail the state because he has been rejected by the people. “We do not want to believe that our security agencies, who are paid to protect lives and property and to ensure credible and peaceful processes on election day have abandoned such onerous responsibility to political vagabonds in the APC to reenact such irresponsible acts as had taken place in the Kano, Osun, Kogi and Imo elections. 