The North East Development Commission ( NEDC) has assured its readiness to unveil the masterplan for the development of the sub- region, adding that the plan would be launched by the governors. The managing director of NEDC, Mohammed Goni Alkali, made the disclosure yesterday when the six governors of the Northeast States paid a courtesy call on the Commission in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. He said as a mandate of the commission, it has plans that will transit between humanitarian development and development of peace and stability in the region. Goni commended the initiative, which he believed would cover all aspects of lives that include livelihood development. He said the governors visit to the headquarters in Maiduguri was to access the efforts of the commission towards the region. Goni described the governors’ visit  as a special day, given that since the inauguration of the commission, it has operated from Abuja to Maiduguri. “This week, we have finally decided that all the management Staff should move to Maiduguri,  the headquarters of the commission. We are going to seek for more support so that we can do our work effectively and efficiently. Each of the governors has given us temporary office to operate in their respective states”. “With collaboration and teamwork, the Northeast region shall rise again to its glorious past,” he said. On the N6 billion Education Endowment Fund (EEF) set up by the NEDC for the Northeast, Goni said the Fund is meant to resuscitate the region’s devastated education sector and rebuild the human capital. Responding on behalf of the six Northeast States governors , the newly nominated chairman of the Northeast Governors Forum (NGF), who is the governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum noted that one of the reasons for the establishment of  NEDC is to enhance the economic recovery and stabilisation of the region. “ This means that economic recovery does not only involve provision of infrastructure but enhancement of livelihood of the people residing in the Northeast sub-region. Zulum recalled that during the forum’s meeting held on Saturday at the Government House, Maiduguri, the governors said that they will provide the necessary support to the NEDC, but urged them to carry States along in their programmes. Present during  the visit of the governors to the NEDC headquarters in  Maiduguri included the governors of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri; Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed; Gombe State, Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya and the deputy governors of Yobe and Taraba States. 