The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has written to both the Imo state governor, Hope Uzodimma and the River State governor, Nyesome Wike, over backlog of unpaid salaries to workers in both states. The NLC also threatened to shutdown activities in both states if their demands  are not met. In two separate letters signed by NLC President, comrade Ayuba Wabba, the congress said workers in both states have endured various anti-labour practices, ranging from unpaid pensions and slashed salaries In the letter addressed to the Imo governor, Wabba said payment of salaries in the state are staggered as less than 70% of public and civil servants have not been paid salaries since March 2020. Other issues in contention includes unpaid pension to retirees for 3 months, as well as suspension of negotiation between workers’ representative organizations and the Imo State Government on salaries adjustment consequent on the new national minimum wage. Wabba also said workers suffered incidences of salary slashes for those who are paid salaries, saying for example lawyers in the Ministry of Justice were paid only 25% of their salaries for April, May and June. The Congress therefore, demanded for the “immediate payment of salaries arrears owed Imo state workers especially those owed since March 2020; full release of slashed salary arrears withheld by the Imo State government for about three months now “The reactivation of the suspended negotiation between workers’ trade unions and the Imo State Government on salaries adjustment consequent on the new national minimum wage; “The immediate remittance of check-off dues deductions from workers’ salaries withheld since February 2020 and the reversal of the directives to and by the MDAs to stop check-off dues deduction.” In the letter to the Rivers state governor, Wabba lamented the non-payment of gratuity and pensions to pensioners since the assumption of the governor into office  in 2015. The NLC president also said the “failure to clear the arrears of pension and gratuity Indebtedness has become the living nightmare of senior citizens who are being punished for serving the state, these pensioners are dying droves as result of neglect.” The NLC president reminded the governor of their courtesy and advocacy meeting with him which took place on the 8th of February 2020, saying the meeting was aimed at resolving a number of industrial and labour related issues in the state. “Your Excellency may also recall your expressed commitment to do right by workers in the state and to ensure that all outstanding industrial issues were resolved.” Wabba said at the feelers the NLC headquarters is getting from its Rivers State Council indicate that the industrial situation in Rivers State has gotten worse since their last visit. He said the state government has failed to conclude and sign an agreement with Organized Labour as required by extant labour statutes on the implementation of the new national minimum wage which became effective since April 18, 2019 when the new national minimum wage of N30,OOO became Law in Nigeria. He also lamented  the non-implementation of the annual salary increments by the Rivers State Government under governor Wike’s leadership since assuming office in 2015. The letter reads further, “Non-payment of outstanding salary arrears for teachers comprising February and March 2016 salaries which were unpaid due to the biometric test ordered by the State Government; “Non-payment of health workers in October 2017 owing to their participation in the National JOHESU strike; “Non-payment of gratuity and pensions to pensioners since your assumption of office as the Governor of Rivers State in 2015, The failure to clear the arrears of pension and gratuity Indebtedness has become the living nightmare of senior citizens who are being punished for serving the state. These pensioners are dying droves as result of neglect.” 