The verdict of the Court of Appeal in Abuja which nullified deregistration of 22 political parties has pitched the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) against the hitherto deregistered parties who are insisting on fielding candidates in the forthcoming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States. Following their victory at the appellate court yesterday, the parties declared that they have started preparations to participate in the forthcoming polls. But INEC, in its response, ruled out the inclusion of new parties in the elections, maintaining that it had concluded pre-election matters in both states. In the judgement delivered by a four-man panel led by Justice Sodipe Lokulo, the court held that INEC’s deregistration of the parties was illegal having failed to follow due process. The court therefore ordered INEC to reenlist the political parties in the list of parties in the country. It also held that INEC’s action wasn’t in compliance with Section 225(A) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), as the electoral body did not indicate reasons for deregistering the political parties. INEC had said that the deregistered parties breached their requirements for registration because they failed to win at least 25 per cent of votes cast in one state of the federation during the presidential election. While making reference to Section 40 of the constitution, the appellate court held that citizens are entitled to freedom of association and as such the right conferred on a party cannot be taken away except by due process. The court further held that the parties are challenging the process of their deregistration and not the act. The reenlisted parties are Advanced Congress of Democrats (ACD), Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party (ANDP), All Blending Party (ABP), All Grand Alliance Party (AGAP), Alliance of Social Democrats (ASD), Change Advocacy Party (CAP), Democratic People’s Congress (DPC), Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN) and Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN). Others are New Generation Party of Nigeria (NGPA), Nigeria For Democracy (NFD), Peoples Coalition Party (PCP), Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), People for Democratic Change (PDC), Young Democratic Party (YDP), Re-Build Nigeria Party (RBNP), Save Nigeria Congress (SNC), Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN), United Democratic Party (UDP), United Patriots (UP) and We The People of Nigeria (WTPN). The parties were among 74 political parties that INEC deregistered on February 6, 2020. We’re Set For Gov’ship Polls, ACD, MPN, YDP, Others Declare Reacting to the judgement chairman, Contact and Mobilisation and member, Steering Committee of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Rev Olusegun Peters, declared that the affected political parties will participate in the forthcoming governorship elections. According to a statement signed by Peters in Abuja, the coalition said that it was obvious that INEC erred by hastily deregistering political parties in flagrant violation of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) and the Electoral Act as amended. It noted that Nigeria is a nation governed by the rule of law, not rule of might that breeds dictatorship and autocracy. The statement reads in part: “With this judgement of the Court of Appeal, affected political parties look forward to participating in the forthcoming Edo and Ondo governorship elections. “The judgement is sweet music in the ears of all lovers of democracy in Nigeria. Nigerians demand widening of the political horizon not stifling it which results to do-or-die politics as being witnessed in Edo State governorship poll. “CUPP will continue to champion good governance, social justice and restoration of genuine democracy in Nigeria. It is a task that must be done in the interest of the nation. We are all in it together.” CUPP said the judgement of the appellate court has reinforced Nigerians’ confidence in the judiciary, rule of law and due process, adding that the verdict has proved that the judiciary is indeed the last hope of all aggrieved people in the quest for a strong, virile, progressive and egalitarian democratic nation. No Political Party Will Be Added In Our List – Commission But responding to the declaration of the parties, INEC declared that no political party will be added to the list of accredited political parties slated for the Edo governorship elections. Speaking exclusively with LEADERSHIP in Abuja, the chief press secretary to INEC chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, noted that so far there are seven court judgements on the issue, stressing that six of the judgements so far agreed with INEC’s decision on the matter. Oyekanmi said that the commission was yet to receive the enrolled court orders and do not know what is contained in the judgement. He stressed that when the court judgement gets to the commission they will meet and take a decision on the next line of action. He said, “With regard to the Edo governorship election, you will recall that in the Timetable and Schedule of Activities issued for the election, the last day for the submission of Nomination Forms by political parties was 20 July, 2020, therefore, no political party can be added to that list at this point. “We are yet to receive the enrolled court orders and we do not know what is contained in the judgement. “However, there have been seven court judgements on this deregistration matter, six of which agreed with INEC’s decision. Some issues relating to the matter are also pending before the Supreme Court”. He added that INEC has a good reputation for complying with court orders and judgement. Mixed reactions however trailed the judgement of the appellate court yesterday, with some civil society organisations expressing worry over conflicting judgements over the deregistration of parties. The Equity and Justice in Politics and Governance Movement, in a joint reaction said, ”In a very rare occurrence, the appellate Court delivered a conflicting judgment by ordering INEC to reinstate the 22 deregistered parties when the same Court had earlier in the month in the case of National Unity Party upheld and validated the power of INEC to deregister the Parties”. Convener of the groups, Salfu Momodu, said although the court recognised the power of INEC to deregister parties in line with Section 225 of the Constitution, it went further to say that INEC needed to prove that it complied with the procedure outlined. Also an Abuja based lawyer, Jude Nwokike, asked INEC to challenge the judgment at the Supreme Court. According to him, issues that were not before the court were brought into the matter in arriving at the decision. He added: “INEC must approach the apex court to set aside the judgement. The Edo and Ondo States governorship elections have been fixed for 19th of September and 10th October, 2020 but with the decision of the court, the smooth process of the conduct of the elections may be hindered. ”It is now left for the Supreme Court to speedily hear the appeal arising from this case and determine it one way or the other”. The executive chairman of Social Economic Right and Accountability Project (SERAP), Adetokunbo Mumuni, also backed the call for INEC to head to the apex court. He said, “I believe the matter should be further taken up to the higher court of the land, the Supreme Court, let’s have a final pronouncement from the highest Court of the land. “That will make the law so settled and perfect and final so that we will know where to stand because the Court of Appeal is not the last Court of the land. I think when Late Gani Fawehimi took the matter up when he was alive; it was left for the final and the highest court to do justice to it”. On his part, the executive director of Peering Advocacy and Advancement Centre In Africa (PAACA), Mr Ezenwa Nwagwu, said INEC should have nothing to do with the constitution and registering of political parties. He said, “I think, first and foremost, that the whole report about the committee unbundling INEC will also be helpful. We need a different set up that will be managing the issue of registration of political parties. But I for one do not even think that INEC has any business with registering or deregistering political parties. Ezenwa further said that INEC should be setting the criteria for participation in an election, adding that the right to form political parties and associations is constitutional and can’t be taken away.