Indigenes of Ukwa land, the oil rich region of Abia State have cried out over the continued marginalisation of their area by both the State and Federal Government. They maintained that their area have been relegated to the background not withstanding the fact that it is the only oil producing local government in Abia State. Speaking to our correspondent, Chief Sunday Okeke said,” Take a ride through the Obehie – Akwete – Azumini road which links Ukanafun in Akwa Ibom State and it will surprise you that it is a federal road in an oil producing area. It is in a terrible state of disrepair, resulting in untold hardship for commuters and transport operators plying the road”. Chief Okeke disclosed that the contract for the dualisation of the road which was awarded by the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs to the Chinese Civil Engineering Construction Company, CCECC,, has remained uncompleted for ten years. He said the situation was made worse by the fact that in the past six years, there has not been electricity supply in the major parts of Ukwa land, adding that in this rainy season it had become extremely difficult for the people, whose major preoccupation is farming, to take their farm produce to the markets. Chief Okeke bemoaned a situation whereby indigenes of an oil producing area which needs are supposed to be catered to by the government wallow in abject poverty because of stark neglect. He said, ” we have the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, established by the Federal Government and the Abia State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission created by the State Government to fast-track massive development of our area, yet our area is gradually been cut off from other parts of the country due to very bad roads.
“The activities of the two Commissions have not improved our conditions of living, as we don’t have good schools, hospitals, roads and the electricity supply in most parts is epileptic” Commenting on the situation, Mr Iheanyi Ebere, a University graduate who has been engaged in petty trading, attributed the poor state of infrastructure in the area to the lack of good representations by both the Senator representing Abia South and the House Member representing Ukwa East / Ukwa West Federal Constituency at the National Assembly, Enyinnaya Abaribe and Uzoma Abonta, saying that it was regrettable that the law makers who are enjoying their fourth tenure at the National Assembly have not been able to attract meaningful projects to the area. He said, ” it beats my imagination that Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, the chief whip of the Nigerian Senate, just recently, disclosed that he attracted five NDDC projects to Abia North, his constituency, even before he became a Senator of the Federal Republic and our own representatives, who are from the oil producing area, have not been able to do anything for us in terms of infrastructural development ” According to him, there are more NDDC projects in other places of Abia State than the oil producing area, adding that the nonviolent nature of Ukwa people has accommodated the neglect. He said, ” going by the list of projects handled by the NDDC released by the Joy Nunieh led Interim Management Committee, about eighty percent of NDDC projects are sited outside the local government that qualified Abia as an oil producing State.
“Will any person blame our youths if they decide to interrupt the flow of oil operations in our area.
” the government is not supposed to pay lip service to the issue of security in this country, as nothing more can threaten the peace of the Niger Delta region than neglecting the challenges confronting the people.
” One begins to wonder why the government tends to be reactive instead of proactive on issues concerning security. If our youths decide to block the flow of oil operations, there is no doubt that the government will come asking for how to quell the situation and restore normalcy in the area.” He pointed out that NDDC and ASOPADEC could not deliver on their mandate because of the pattern of appointment into the two Commissions, stressing that critical stakeholders in the oil producing areas needed to be consulted before such appointments are made. In her reaction, a secondary school teacher in the area, Mrs Ngozi Onwukwe said that the condition of many of the public schools in the area was pitiable, as their infrastructure had completely decayed. She lamented the terrible conditions under which the students were learning, adding that for a local government that contributes significantly to the economy of the state, there was an urgent need for the government to refurbish the dilapidated school buildings. Mrs Onwukwe expressed her optimism that if the government allowed the input of people from oil producing areas in the choice of representatives in the Board of the NDDC and ASOPADEC, the Commissions would be more committed to the challenges of the infrastructural challenges of their area. She said, ” I can tell you that the major challenge of the abysmal performance of the interventionist agencies that the governments have created for us is the manner of appointing people into the Commissions. We have situations whereby individuals from outside Ukwa influence these appointments, resulting in the appointees dancing to the tune of their god-fathers. The truth is that if the recommendations of critical stakeholders in our local government are considered, the situation would be a lot better. I know there is APC in Ukwa, would there be anything wrong if the government seeks the input of the leaders of the party from our area in appointment of a representative into the NDDC” She emphasised that government should listen to the people it governs.