Federal and state governments have been advised to come together to find lasting solutions to the wanton killings in the North East, Southern Kaduna and other parts of Nigeria, in order for the country to develop economically and otherwise. Dr Ahmad Mukhtar Mohammed, Special Adviser to Zamfara State Governor on Rural Electrification and Telecommunication, who made this call yesterday in Abuja at a doctorate award ceremony organised in his honour by Freedom University and Technology Seminary to commemorate the World Humanitarian Day, said there can never be genuine development, if Nigeria keeps recording wanton killings in different parts of the country. Mohammed, who is also the Director Of Procurement in the Court of Appeals Abuja, commended the Freedom University for the honour given to him, mostly since it is a Christian University that recognised what he as a Muslims is doing to impact positively on the lives of Nigerians. “Most times, I sit down and look at leaders of the world, I tend to wonder what is happening to people, where have we gotten it wrong? Why is the wanton killings, what are we trying to achieve. “Why can’t we have peace and leaders that would bring genuine peace? Leaders that would bring about commonality, remove religious and ethnics discrimination. We should come together and make a united force and live happy among ourselves. “This world is created by God for all of us, not minding what your religion, your tribe or colour is. We saw an example from the incident in United States of America, where the Police killed a black man and there was protest around the world because of it. If there have been peace, such would not have happened,” he said. According to Mohammed, it is good for Nigerian leaders to come together and talk to themselves and lead the people by example, that they should speak to the people to throw away all the differences and ensure that the country is a better place to live in. “On this award, this is a challenge to me to do more for my people. There are a lot of ways we can all help people, not necessarily building mosques and churches, given a smile to a subordinate, is an act of kindness,” he said.