The dilemma facing insurance companies presently is to source for funding to recapitalise in the midst of the ongoing national economic downturn, ZAKA KHALIQ Writes Although, coronavirus outbreak seems to have subsided worldwide, it has
left most economies of the world on their kneels. Most economies are currently
suffering from economic downturn
that will take years to rebuild.  Nigerian economy is not isolated
from this development, with the
nation’s sources of revenue shrinking
as the price of crude oil keep looking
downward. Companies were closing for
businesses in their thousands, while
the existing ones keep retrenching
to financially cope with the current
economic reality. The forex market
is not anything favourable as our
currency, the Naira, embarks on a
free fall.  In the midst of all these, is the
insurance industry recapitalisation
exercise already ongoing as at the
time the pandemic struck, but seems
to have suffered a major setback.  Although, the insurance industry
regulator, that is, the National
Insurance Commission(NAICOM)
was magnanimous to have somehow
extended the deadline to September
2021, it is no longer at ease for
most underwriters to source for
funding in the race to meet the new
recapitalisation deadline.  The Managing Director/CEO, Universal Insurance Plc, Mr. Ben Ujuatuonu, said: “With companies closing down globally and having financial challenges, it will be difficult to get Foreign Direct Investment(FDI) into the Nigerian insurance industry. Companies that wanted to invest in
Nigeria before now, are, by themselves
needing financial bailout. So, the
recapitalisation exercise is going to be
tough, especially, for those envisaging
foreign investment.”  The other option, he said, is to look
into the local market for funding, but
that the reality is; most of these local
investors might not have that financial
muscle to invest now.  To him, “The performance of the
capital market has not been too
convincing. So, where else will the
funding comes from? Its going to
be a challenging year for insurance
operators, no doubt.”  New Twist To Recapitalisation
Deadline NAICOM had earlier extended
the deadline for insurance industry
recapitalisation exercise from
December 31st, 2020 to September
30, 2021.  To this end, insurance companies
will have to meet 50 per cent of their
paid-up share capital by December 31,
2020 while completing the remaining
stake by September 30, 2021.  According to the commission,
the decision was necessitated by the
incidences of COVID-19 Pandemic
which has made it difficult to proceed
with the 31st December, 2020
recapitalization deadline.  NAICOM, in the circular, said, a
review of the recapitalisation deadline,
therefore, became imperative in
order to mitigate likely negative
consequences of the pandemic on the
exercise, adding that, the commission
has, however, extended and segment
the recapitalisation process into two
phases “50% of the Minimum Paid-Up
Capital for Insurance and 60% for
Reinsurance shall be met by 31st
December, 2020, while Insurance
Companies are required to fully comply
with the approved Minimum Paid-Up
Capital not later than 30th September,
2021,” the regulatory body said.  Following this development, Life
Insurance companies must have
raised N4billion of the expected N8
billion minimum paid-up share capital
by December 31st, 2020, with the
remaining N4 billion expected to have
been raised by September 30, 2021, to
make up N8billion.  Similarly, Non-Life insurance firm
must have N5 billion capitalization
by December 31st, 2020 and be fully
capitalized to N10 billion by September
30, 2020, even as Composite insurer
must have N9 billion by December
31st, 2020, while completing it to N18
billion by September 30, 2021.  Reinsurance companies were
directed to first raised 60 per cent of
their paid-up capital by December 31st
of this year, with the remaining 40 per
cent expected to have been realized by
the end of the exercise in September,
next year.  Mergers and Acquisition Ongoing
In order to meet the new regulatory
requirement set by the National
Insurance Commission (NAICOM),
some insurance companies have
initiated plans to merge.  Director, Policy, and Regulation,
NAICOM, Pius Agboola, had earlier
disclosed that some underwriters
were also looking for partners to merge
with but that only six companies have
indicated an interest in mergers and
acquisitions.  “Only six companies have indicated
interests in mergers and acquisitions
out of 44 companies reviewed,” he said.
The director stated that NAICOM
had restricted the insurance companies
from borrowing money to meet their
recapitalisation requirements, adding
that, while some of the companies
that borrowed funds during the
last recapitalisation exercise in the
industry were doing well, majority of
the companies had been acquired by
foreign investors.  “If any of them wants to bring in
money, they must become owners
and manage the company together,
not give them money and go and sit
down and expect them to pay back.
When they are owners, they will have
directors; they know how the company
is being run. If the person at the helm
of affairs is not doing well, they will
fire him and employ another person,”
Agboola said.  To this end, Unitrust Insurance
Company Limited is considering
merger with another local
underwriting firm to fully recapitalise
to N10 billion new capital benchmark
for a General Business insurer by
September, 2021.  Speaking on the development, the
managing director/CEO, Unitrust
Insurance Company Limited, Mr. John
Ijerheime, said, the firm currently has
67 per cent of the required capital,
meaning that, the insurer has more
than enough to meet the first phase
of the recapitalisation exercise slated
for 31st of December, 2020.  According to him, “Currently, we
have 67 per cent of the N10bn Total
fund we are looking for, which is 17
per cent higher than what the National
Insurance Commission(NAICOM)
required by December. So, what our
shareholders are considering now, is
whether we want to merge or Stand
alone? If we want to stand alone,
we should be able to do that. But if
we want to merge, we are already
discussing with an insurance firm for
Business combination.” Other Options Meanwhile, so far, most of the
companies have planned to raise funds
through share premium, capitalisation
of retained earnings, Initial Public
Offerings, right issues, and private
placement.  AIICO Insurance Plc has submitted
its application to the Nigerian Stock
Exchange (NSE) for the approval and
listing of 4,357,770,954 ordinary
shares of Fifty Kobo each at Eighty
Kobo per share, on the basis of 5 new
ordinary shares for every 13 ordinary
shares held. To this end, the Company’s
shareholders now have the
opportunity to increase their stake and
position themselves for higher returns
on their investments. A statement from the company
and signed by its Head, Strategic
Marketing & Communications, Segun
Olalandu, stressed that the move was
to implement its recapitalisation plans
ahead of the deadline given by the
regulator to do so. Similarly, Linkage Assurance Plc
has assured shareholders that despite
the challenges posed by the impact of
Covid-19, the Company is on course
to meeting the recapitalization
requirements. The Company disclosed that it is
concurrently exploring all available
options including Rights Issue,
private placement, and internal
capital sourcing to raise the required
funds.The Managing Director/CEO of
Linkage Assurance Plc, Daniel Braie
had assured the brokerage fraternity
earlier in the year that his company
will meet the new capital base of N10
billion. Low Capitalised Insurers May Lose
Juicy Insurance Contracts
Despite the current deadline
extension in the recapitalisation
exercise of the insurance industry to
September, 2021, there are moves by
most insurance brokers to only give
their risk businesses to insurance
companies that have fully or mostly
recapitalise by December 2020,
LEADERSHIP can exclusively reveal.
However, investigation shows that
brokers are rooting for operators
who must have fully recapitalised
by December 2020 to place the juicy
insurance contracts for 2021 in their
possession to them. And with most big players certain to
have fully recapitalized by December,
2020, there are insinuations that
these juicy insurance contracts could
be heading their way, while the low
capitalised firms will lose out. Findings show that brokers were
looking for well capitalised insurers
who will be able to pay claims as
and when due and companies that
will exist beyond September 2021,
as they fear some of the illiquid
underwriters might not scale through
the recapitalisation hurdle