The general manager, Home Appliances Division at LG Electronics West Africa, Mr. Jiung Park, has said that the company’s focus has been on creating an excellent product that meets customers’ needs and more, with the new innovation. The company said one of its products, LG Gas Cooker, is embedded with Easy Clean special feature and other qualities, capable of making consumers cooking healthy and hygienic. In a statement, LG Electronics said that as more Nigerians are getting conscious of their health and safety, more focus has been on the area of hygiene, considered as one of the most important aspects of safeguarding good health. ‘‘Kitchen is the heart of every home and what goes on in the kitchen can affect the family in diverse ways hence food safety cannot be ignored. Good food hygiene measures need to be put in place to ensure that food is safe, right from preparation to consumption. And to ensure availability of hygienic food at all times, everyone must not only live with the consciousness of what they eat and the way it is processed, they must also be concerned about what is used in cooking the food consumed. ‘‘Keeping a hygienic lifestyle has been described as hallmark of good living. It’s a series of practices that preserve good health, longevity, prevention of spread of diseases and virus as well as preserving the climates. In the manufacturing of food, pharmaceutical, cosmetic and other products, good hygiene is a critical component of quality assurance hence LG Electronic is taking giant strides in this to ensure that its loyal customers are offered the best kitchen appliances that help to experience the good side of life,’’ the statement read in part. According to the company, LG gas cooker has been specifically designed to meet the 21st century cooking needs of its customers. ‘‘LG EasyClean is the next generation of oven cleaning that provides user a quick and easy way of cleaning their oven. Easy clean feature is designed to be a new cleaning alternative to self-clean that uses low heat, no chemicals and allows your oven to be cleaned in just minutes. Easy clean uses low temperatures and water to loosen the soils in your oven so that the soils can be scrubbed away easily. The advantages of the Easy Clean feature are that it is smoke and odor free and requires only water as a cleaning agent instead of harsh chemicals when compared to self-clean. It saves users time and energy by reducing the heating cycle from hours to just 20 minutes for better cleaning performance with Easy Clean,’’ the statement read in part.