As part of efforts  to maintain Wild polio free status and improve immunisation coverage in Nigeria, the federal government has supported low performing states with 912 motorcycles and laptops, for frontline routine immunisation officers. Speaking during the commissioning of the 456 motorcycles and 456 laptops, supported by the World Bank and the  World Health Organisation (WHO), at the weekend in Abuja, the executive secretary of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib, noted that the support  came at the right time, saying that the lock down, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, had affected all primary health care services, including immunisation. He expressed optimism that the provision would boost routine immunization in roumote communities across the  low performing states. “We experienced a situation where the lockdown prevented people from being able to access primary healthcare centres. So, there was a decline in practically all primary health care services. “As at the last time we checked our data, we have now started to see that primary health care (PHC) services, especially routine immunization, is going back to the levels that they used to be before the COVID-19 pandemic. “Never before in the history of Nigeria have we seen more than a doubling of routine immunisation coverage within such a short period. Today, as we try to improve and get even beyond where we are today, we are donating these motorcycles and laptops to frontline workers. “Only three years ago when we declared a state of emergency on the low routine immunisation coverage, we also recognised that it was going to take more than rhetoric to make sure that we achieve our ambition of ensuring that no child in Nigeria is left behind when it comes to getting all the vaccines that they need to grow into healthy and productive adults in our society. “This is why we are working with the World Bank and our partners; we decided to ask ourselves why routine immunisation has been so poor. We realised that there was a need for us to provide frontline workers with the tools that they need.” “The tools that they need is part of what we are giving out today in terms of making sure that they have the logistics to get to the last mile, making sure that they have the equipment to be able to manage data.”  He added, “In the last two years, because of all our efforts in this space, we have been able to reduce the difference between administrative data and survey data to less than 20 percent.  The minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said it is accepted that primary health care is the foundation of the health system of any country, adding that it is strengthening routine immunization as a major pillar of the Primary Health Care System and achieving the goal of universal health coverage in the country is an imperative.  “It thus gives me great pleasure to see the NPHCDA pursuing its mandate to implement a system-wide plan to enhance the immunization programme and ramp up coverage especially in poor performing states, to accelerate achievement UHC objectives which I commend.   “A particularly important part of improving immunization service delivery is the provision of logistics management support which will improve accountability, supportive supervision, demand generation and assurance of vaccine availability and access in the target states,” he said.