The National Orientation Agency (NOA) has warned management of schools to adhere to the Coronavirus (COVID-19) protools to ensure the safety of students. The director-general of NOA, Dr Garba Abari, gave the warning while presenting to the media, the fourth and fifth reports of its observations on the sensitisation activities of the agency in the fight against the Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Nigeria, yesterday in Abuja. He said, “With regard to schools, we are hopeful that the little opening meant for the exiting classes to write their exams will help management of schools to adopt practices that will lead to better hygiene and greater safety in our schools. “As part of that campaign, NOA officials are giving out freely the guideline issued by the NCDC along with the relevant edu- cational authorities so that management of schools will know what to do. “Community Mobilisation Officers (COMOs) have also been directed to work along with health officials, under the state response teams to inspect schools facilities to ensure that on no account should our children be exposed to the risk of in- fection due to negligence. “Information, Educational and communication (IEC) material are to be distribut- ed to schools as part of the campaign. We encourage schools to set up health van- guards to work among students to moni- tor compliance with protocols within the school premises. “The ultimate goal of the sensitization effort is to bring to minimum the rate spread of the disease in the country,” he said. He appealed to states to begin sensitization in schools in view of the partial resumption of schools, adding that service providers should ensure that customers are reminded to observe the precaution measures especially use of sanitizers and facemask. The NOA boss further said, “Health workers and experts have tremendous resilience in tackling the issues associated with the disease. They have through their professional practises continued to give support to infected victims. “We therefore, continue to implore them to remain patriotic and resist the temptation to go on strike, knowing that government will always prioritize their welfare”.