As Nigerian  Muslims join the rest of the world to  celebrate Eid-el- Kabir, the national coordinator of the African Union Development Agency- New Partnership for Africa’s Development/African Peer Review Mechanism ( AUDA-NEPAD/APRM), Nigeria, Princess Gloria Akobundu, has urged Nigerian’s to be selfless.   Akobundu made this call in her goodwill message to Muslims in a statement signed by her media assistant,  Abolade Ogundimu, and made available to LEADERHSIP Weekend.  The statement said Nigeria will become a greater nation if citizens take pride in rendering selfless services for national growth, and not pursue selfish interest at the detriment of  the nation’s development.  “While we all make efforts to afford basic needs, let’s also remember to reach out to the less privileged within our immediate communities. The more we think about other’s well being, and not self alone, the society and by extension the nation will be better for it.  “In the spirit of celebrating the sacrifice of Prophet Ibraheem and subsequent blessings by Allah, let us do more in sacrificing for others,  so the nation can be blessed with rewards for patriotic and selfless efforts,” it said.  The statement further said the APRM boss, also member of  AU-APRM Continental Committee on Response to COVID-19 and other pandemics, reiterated the need to be conscious of the pandemic during the festive period.  It added that the conduct of the second cycle review of the country in APRM thematic areas would commence soon, urging the general public to be patriotic in their roles during the exercise.  “After robust training by APRM continental and domestication of ideas by Nigeria’s resource persons, our review team is ready to conduct the exercise very soon.  “The review process is to identify challenges to governance in various parts of the country and proffer lasting solutions to them  thereby promoting good governance.  I, therefore, urge respondents to give patriotic response while answering our review team,” it added.  