The Coalition of Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria (COCSON) has condemned false allegations against the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu over alleged raising millions of Naira for the construction of a Training School in Endehu, Nasarawa State. A statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja, jointly signed by the convener, COCSON, Hon Ikechukwu Chukwumere, and its director Administration, COCSON, Tijani Ali Danjuma, the allegation was published by an online medium not (LEADERSHIP) which the coalition described as fake and malicious. The CSO said its independent investigation reveals that at no time has the IGP ordered, threatened or coerced any person or Mobile Police Commanders into generating a dime for any project. It also stressed that the said school was entirely built with the support of the state government and other corporate partners. The statement reads in part, “The attention of the umbrella body of all the Civil Society Organisations in Nigeria has been brought to a fake and malicious story indicting the IGP Adamu for illegally raising millions of Naira for construction of Training School in Endehu, Nasarawa State. “We want to categorically state that this is a deliberate attempt by some unscrupulous element to tarnish the image of the IGP and the Nigeria Police Force in general. “In a bid to truly unravel the credibility of this allegation, the Coalition of Civil Society Organisation of Nigeria undertook an independent investigation and the following resolutions were reached on the grounds of duly established facts: That the said school was entirely built with the support of the state government and multiple corporate partners. The statement said that whereas the online media stated that the facility was located at the IGP’s hometown in Endehu, the IGP is not from Endehu but from Lafia. “That this news in its entirety is false and misleading geared towards tarnishing the image of a man who has meritoriously served his fatherland; That this act if not nipped in the bud is capable of promoting falsehood in journalism,” the statement said. The statement added that an open letter has been written to the Department of State Security to carry out an investigation on the online medium that did the publication smearing the image of IGP Adamu.