The Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) has felicitated with
Nigerian youths on the occasion of  this year’s International Youth
Day celebration and charged them to participate in politics. Chairman, Contact and Mobilization and Member, Steering Committee,
CUPP, Rev. Olusegun Peters
in a statement issued in Abuja, yesterday said that CUPP “salutes the
great Nigerian youth for their patriotism, vision, devotion,
resilience, perseverance and commitment in building a strong, virile,
progressive, prosperous and egalitarian democratic nation.” CUPP recalled with pride that Nigerian youths were in the vanguard in
the attainment of Independence in October 1960, and resisted the
British colonial masters, fought for the unity of the country, held
prominent positions in government, excelled in various professions and
brought international honours to the fatherland. The statement reads in part, “CUPP urges youths to embrace politics
and take advantage of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Act that lowered the
age of aspirants’ vying for elective offices as the future belongs to
them. The Coalition also urges government at all levels, political
parties and organizations to appoint youths to leadership positions
that will prepare them for the tasks ahead. Youth should also support
and sustain multiparty democracy. It is the only way to entrench
constitutional rule in Nigeria and the best way for them to be voted
into power. “It is unfortunate that millions of our youths are unemployed due to
poor leadership, corruption and mismanagement of the nation’s
resources that would have provided them gainful employment.
The Coalition urges governments to formulate policies and programmes
that will provide employment to our young people which will keep them
away from crimes in this era of COVID-19 pandemic.
Nigeria will be great again when our youths, the future leaders of
tomorrow, are given their place in politics, government and
organizations. For our dynamic youth, the future starts today. We are
all in it together.”