The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice (AGF), Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, has said that the proposed consolidated sentencing
guidelines would ensure that congestion in prisons in Nigeria is reduced to the barest
minimum through the use of non-custodial sentences. The AGF said this is in line with section 470(2)(c) of the
Administration of Criminal Justice Act, ACJA’, 2015 and section
2(1)(b) of the Nigerian Correctional Service Act, 2019. Malami, who spoke at the Virtual Interactive session of the Presidential Committee on Correctional
Service Reform and Decongestion with stakeholders to review the
Federal Capital Territory Courts Sentencing Guidelines and Practice
Direction 2020, said the guideline is geared towards implementing one
of the major recommendations of the National Workshop on the Effective
Implementation of the Nigerian Correctional Service Act, 2019. According to him, some of the objectives of the proposed guidelines is
to set out the appropriate standards and guideline for the sentencing
process in offences against the state, person, public order, morality,
homicide, property and corruption related offences, for the purpose of
ensuring reasonable uniformity and fairness in sentencing in the
Federal Capital Territory. He also said that the new guidelines is to set out the requirements and
procedure for imposing custodial and non-custodial sentences for the
purpose of preventing abuse and ensuring reasonable uniformity and
fairness in the imposition of sentences. Malami said, ”This interactive session has therefore brought together
relevant stakeholders especially the FCT Judiciary to review, ratify,
validate and adopt the consolidated draft document which will
hopefully be signed in no distant time by my Lord, the Chief Judge of
the FCT High Court. ”It is expected that this pilot document will be extended to other
States of the Federation, especially those States that have enacted
the Administration of Criminal Justice Law. The administration of our
criminal justice system is an embodiment of diverse institutions
respectively engaged in the detection, prosecution and adjudication
over offenders culminating to conviction and sentencing”. The chairman of the Presidential Committee, Justice Ishaq Bello, who
is also the Chief Judge of the FCT High Court in his welcome address
said the introduction of non-custodial sentences such as probation,
community service, restitution, compensation and suspended sentence by
the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015 was one of the main
innovations of the new Act which was aimed at addressing the problem
of congestion of correctional facilities in Nigeria.