…State Party chairman assures of transparency, fairness The Akwa Ibom state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, on Friday commenced the screening of aspirants as part of her preparations for the forthcoming October 2020 local government elections in the state. The screening exercise, which began on the Morning of Friday, August 14, and will end on Saturday August 15, 2020 is taking place at the newly commissioned permanent secretariat of the Party, Atan Offot, Uyo. Chairmanship and councillorship aspirants from Eket Senatorial District were the first to appear before the panel on Friday while aspirants from Uyo Senatorial District took their turn afternoon of the same day. Aspirants from Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District are expected to be screened on Saturday, 15 August, 2020. Speaking, the state chairman of the PDP, Hon. Udo Ekpenyong commended the aspirants and party officials on the peaceful conduct of the exercise so far, noting that the PDP in Akwa Ibom state will continue to remain as model and pacesetter in conduct, actions and handling of issues of Party politics in the country and beyond. Mr. Ekpenyong further reiterated the commitment of the Party under his leadership to engage in action and pursue policies that will deepen the footprints of success which the PDP in Akwa Ibom State is known for in the state, adding that the leadership of the Party will ensure that the ideals of fairness, transparency and integrity are upheld throughout the screening process. “Like I mentioned during my inauguration, the PDP in Akwa Ibom under my leadership will channel results-oriented efforts into ensuring that we engage in actions that will keep our Party on the path of election victories. Our decision to initiate and sustain a robust grassroots mobilisation strategy remains absolute. From the unit to the wards, to the chapters to even the state level, we will expand our coast to ensure the state continues to stay as a PDP stronghold”, Hon Ekpenyong hinted. The Akwa State Ibom State PDP helmsman commended the Leader of the Party in the State, His Excellency Governor Udom Emmanuel for what he described as the visionary, forthright and purposeful leadership he has brought to bear in the Party since his assumption of office, stressing that this has been the reason for the peace and attendant successes the party has enjoyed in Akwa Ibom State through the years. He reechoed the resolve of the party under his watch as State Chairman to offer ancillary support to the Governor Udom Emmanuel-led administration towards the realization of the Completion Agenda. In line with Covid-19 precautionary measures, the Party has ensured only aspirants and authorized Party officials are allowed entry into the premises as well as enforcing the use of face mask, maintenance of social distancing during the exercise and other stipulated measures. Meanwhile, an appeal Panel which will help to handle any complaint arising from the screening exercise is to sit on Monday, August 17, 2020 from 10am at the PDP State Secretariat Complex, Atan Offot, Uyo.