Severe challenges associated with electricity generation in Sub- Sharan Africa (SSA) may soon be a thing of the past following the formation of a consortium that will use advanced thermal technology to generate power from agricultural waste. The consortium that has perfected use of agricultural waste such as cassava peel to generate electricity is led by PyroGenesys and has University of Leicester, African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF), Mobinet, Babban Gona Farmer Services, ICMEA-UK and Koolmill Systems. Speaking on the partnership, the managing director of Agridrive, George Marechera, said AATF is participating in the initiative to ensure increased income for farmers that are growing cassava and contribute to energy source for smallholders. There has been a lot of attention on production and use of clean energy and this initiative offers opportunity for AATF to contribute to that realization through its social enterprise Agridrive. Nearly two-thirds of the world population that does not have access to electricity lives in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). These communities can use solar power, but it is expensive for them and many people cannot afford a solar home kit. A number of African countries such as Nigeria are currently facing an acute power challenge with the state-supported power generating facilities producing less than 4000mw of electricity for the 200 million people, yet the country has the comparative advantage as the largest cassava producer in the world. The consortium is developing low-cost, environmentally friendly technology to transform the way off-grid communities in Nigeria receive electricity through its innovative PyroPower technology. The project that involves use of cassava peels is already being implemented in Osun, Oyo, Ogun, Edo and Delta states with plans for expansion into other states and countries in Africa. “This is a great innovation as it reduces post-harvest losses in cassava and generates additional income for cassava farmers who will now sale cassava waste and get income,” said Mr Marechera, adding the consortium was initiated to utilise agricultural waste for clean energy and  feasibility study on the use of crop wastes (cassava) to generate energy on one of the activities carried out from June 2019 to June 2020 and it showed that cassava peels have the highest energy potential if used . “This feasibility study was based on the cassava mechanisation and agroprocessing work that AATF is currently implementing in Nigeria,” Marechera said, asserting that once commercialised, the initiative would benefit over 1.5 million cassava farmers through increase of  income from sell of cassava peels. ‘’This work will also benefit more than 4 million households who will access clean and affordable energy,” he added. According to him, AATF supports transformative agriculture development for wealth creation for smallholder farmers in SSA and also supports cassava productivity and especially management of post-harvest losses. The chief executive officer of PyroGenesys, Simon Ighofose, said: “PyroPower turns agricultural waste materials into renewable heat and electricity using an advanced thermal technology called pyrolysis, meaning no more fossil fuels. “Waste agro-residues are converted into biochar smokeless fuel briquettes for cooking, replacing firewood and wood-derived charcoal use, a cause of severe deforestation and human health issues,” Simon said, adding the consortium would test the case for installing the first PyroPower pilot plant in Nigeria, using satellite geo-spatial data analysis to identify suitable locations for future PyroPower installations. 