Owing to pressures arising from disturbing national security concerns, the old saying, “Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown”, finds true expression, and rightly so, for the resilient top echelon of the nation’s Armed Forces as well as other security and intelligence organs in the country, GEORGE AGBA reports. Multi-tasking, as a winning strategy, has become the military’s second nature whereby occasional simulations and actionable strategies are re-mapped and re-modeled as the situation demands to meet the fast changing dynamics of the operations to be ahead of the antics and tactics of the terrorists, bandits and other criminals in the country. Giving further informed insight into the workings of the High Command led by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin,  Sources close to LEADERSHIP Sunday at the Defence Headquarters (DHQ)  have maintained that team was literarily unfazed when, last week, the commander of US Special Operations Command in Africa (US AFRICOM), Major General Dagvin Anderson revealed that ISWAP terrorists, Al-Qaeda, had begun marching towards the North West part of Nigeria. Specifically, General Dagvin Anderson, at a digital briefing on Tuesday, August 4, 2020 with journalists in Africa, warned that the terrorist groups were exploiting the COVID-19 pandemic to gradually take over the West African region after losing ground in Syria, Iraq and the Middle East and that they were already deploying several strategies to silently re-establish themselves in the region towards expanding further in the entire continent without drawing attention. DHQ inside sources noted at the weekend in Abuja that when, last week, President Muhammadu Buhari summoned a National Security Council meeting and ordered an immediate re-engineering of the nation’s security apparatus, the service chiefs had actually developed a ‘situational’ document for presentation at the meeting even as, according to them, the fighting forces were successfully combating terrorists, bandits and criminals across the country. To further demonstrate his conviction that more determination would defeat terror in the country, President Muhammadu Buhari, in a message to Nigerians shortly after performing the Eid el Kabir prayers at the forecourt of the presidential villa in Abuja promised to commit more resources to the military, Police and security agencies to deal with the security conundrum, remarking considering the scary security situation that prevailed in 2015 when he assumed office, much had been achieved security wise while more still needed to be done. The president as commander-in-chief who, at various turns, reaffirms his confidence in the ability, tenacity and tirelessness of his service chiefs has insisted that he won’t drop the ball but rather charge them to do more and redeem the situation in the face of unrelenting but largely uninformed criticisms of the minority few. By standing by his war team in the middle of the operations, Buhari seems to be saying that stampede and blackmail, masked as nationalistic fervour, has no place in his presidency. The National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd), told State House correspondents after the Security Council meeting that the presidential directive to the service chiefs was to rejig their operational and intelligence strategies to curb further escalation of criminality in the country. The NSA observed a criminal link between the reckless use of hard drugs, connivance of illegal foreign miners with bandits and kidnappers in the North West and North Central zones and general insecurity confronting the nation. ‘’This problem is directly linked. If you look at the criminality, the colouration of each crime, especially kidnapping, banditry and terrorism, it is not the killing of the people but the way people are killed, goes to show one thing. It is extremely abnormal, inhuman and these acts can only be perpetrated by people who are out of their mind…So for the issue of drugs, it is basically related to every form of violent crime in which these criminals, just at the touch of a button, give vent to homicidal instincts and go on a murderous rampage, killing people”, he stated. The president, in a message at the graduating ceremony of 107 members of the National Defence College (NDC) Course 28 in Abuja where he was represented by the Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Salihu Magashi (rtd), restated his charge to the service chiefs and heads of intelligence agencies to develop more comprehensive measures to end insecurity in the country. Reiterating his administration’s resolve to sustaining the trajectory of defence reformation, transformation, reorganization, expansion and modernization, Buhari blamed the complex and amorphous national security challenges on what he called the interconnected world where the issues of insecurity had criss-crossed international borders, he advocated a return to the long-established principles of Jointness and Synergies among the Armed Forces, the Nigerian Police, intelligence and security agencies in order to win the fight against adversaries. The president’s charge has generated animating conversations among civil advocacy groups, analysts and commentators in the public opinion space, especially when viewed against the recent alarm raised by the US Army General, Anderson, who disclosed that Al-Qaeda had expanded and moved from Mali towards northern Burkina Faso where they attacked critical infrastructure disrupting local governance and security forces to control the local economy and exerting uncensored control over the population. “And we’re seeing them continue to move further south in the Gulf of Guinea, and also further west towards Senegal and West Africa. So that’s a concern to us as we watch them continue to move throughout the region’’, General Anderson had said. Responding swiftly, the Nigerian military told the United States that it was not unaware of the infiltration of the terror groups into the West African sub-region, saying that the warning by the US AFRICOM was a practical endorsement of the ongoing aggressive onslaughts by the Nigerian troops against the Boko Haram terrorist groups and ISWAP. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, at a weekly update on the Nigerian military-led operations across the country, allayed public fears over the alarm, saying that it was actually the Nigerian military which initially raised the alarm over the movement of terrorists from the Middle East to West Africa, and that it was not the first time such an alarm was raised, adding that the military was aware of the development. He stated: “When the conflict in Libya was declared officially that it ended, which did not end, what happened? It was we, our NIA, State Security Services and all that raised the information that these people are moving, have we not captured foreigners among the people that have been terrorizing us in this country? So, it is just like a call to keep doing what we are doing. So the general public should know that the security agencies are on top of it”. Enenche reiterated the readiness of the Armed Forces to checkmate the terrorists and urged Nigerians not to despair over the Al-Qaeda alert, noting that some terrorists from neighboring countries were recently captured in Niger State were recently captured in Niger State, an indication that the nation’s Armed Forces were alive to their responsibility. Dependable defence sources at the weekend maintained that the General Olonisakin-led Armed Forces was committed to pulling the full weight of the Armed Forces to bear on enemies of the Nigerian State, counting on the reinvigorated synergy among its respective organs. Also, observers have applauded the Nigerian military’s current synergy with the police, other security and intelligence agencies against threats to national security. An advocacy group, Concerned Professionals’ Congress (CPC), in a statement, expressed satisfaction over measures by the General Olonisakin-led Armed Forces at putting a decisive end to general insecurity across the country including possible fears arising from the alarm raised recently by the US ARICOM’s army general. The group also endorsed Major General Enenche’s swift response, describing it as quick, timely and reassuring. Chief media strategist of the group, Mr Emeka Nwankpa, said, “There is really nothing to worry about. Our worst fears are since over. Our armed forces can adequately protect Nigerians. The CDS and his team of able commanders and the troops have gallantly fought the terrorists, bandits and criminals in the country, employing operational synergy, jointness, cooperation and collaboration among the organs of the armed forces. “This is why we have recorded huge successes recorded in the ongoing Exercise SAHEL SANITY launched for Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto States and the environs at the Super Camp 4 in Faskari, near Katsina by the COAS, Lt. General Yusuf Buratai, according to credible field reports in a press release issued by the acting director, Defence Media Operations, Brig General Bernard Onyeuko who is on ground. “We particularly commend President Buhari for diligently assembling the current team led by the CDS, General Abayomi Olonisakin. It has again shown that Mr President’s trust and confidence in the ability, capacity and tenacity of these war generals is not misplaced. They deserve our support and prayers”. Similarly, a counterterrorism expert, Mr David Otto, has observed that some uninformed commentators on insecurity in the country have misled many Nigerians to confuse sporadic criminal attacks on territories with actual domination, arguing that they do not mean the same. According to him, in the ongoing counterterrorism operations in the North East, there is a growing tendency to confuse a conventional warfare with the fluid nature of asymmetric conflict thereby sending wrong signals about the true situation while giving undue publicity to the activities of the criminals. Urging a clear understanding and interpretation of the nature of asymmetric warfare, he contended that there is a wide difference between Boko Haram and ISWAP controlling a territory and like Baga and launching spontaneous attacks. The expert said that die-hard and intelligent terrorists will continue to launch spontaneous attacks on hard and soft targets but this does not constitute control of the territory. In the same vein, launching such attacks does not in any way mean that terrorism is active. Such attacks are make-believe actions to create tension, cause panic, spread fear and disaffection between the government and the people. His words: “Boko Haram- ISWAP has the capacity to launch guerilla-style attacks but it does not have the capacity to control any Nigerian territory today – these are two different scenarios in asymmetric warfare-which therefore raises the urgent need for the authorities and the people to man ungoverned spaces especially after the military has recovered them. The Nigerian military ranks among the best fighting forces in the world today. “Spontaneous attacks are not entirely within the remit of the army – this is a multi-agency endeavour including the responsibility of the Borno State authorities, the adjoining states and robust intelligence-led law enforcement”. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General Enenche, also spoke on the ongoing operations of the Armed Forces, remarking that tremendous successes and immense troop domination were recorded in the various theatres of operation nationwide, including the general North West states of Katsina, Zamfara, Sokoto and the contiguous locations where he said farming and other human activities had been gradually restored. There had been reports of aggressive fighting and clearance patrols, confidence-building air raids and intense ground ambushes on suspected bandits’ hide-outs resulting in massive recoveries of rustled cattle and a huge haul of large cache of illegal arms and ammunition. In the South-South, he disclosed that Operation Delta Safe troops deactivated 25 illegal refining istes in Rivers, Cross River and Akwa Ibom states respectively apart from impounding 342, 000 litres of illegally refined AGO. On the North East where he said troops had sustained massive raids on Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists, he debunked recent misrepresentation in some quarters over the ongoing de-radicalization and reintegration of repentant ex-Boko Haram members who voluntarily surrendered. He described Operation Safe Corridor (OPSC) as a Presidency initiative and a DHQ-led non-kinetic multi-agency humanitarian programme that has practically reduced the terrorists’ fighting strength. “It is highly desirable at this moment to further explain some key points about De-radicalization, Rehabilitation and Re-integration (DRR) programme in order to allay the fears of some members of the general public and reassure that these individuals were duly profiled and confirmed to be low-risk repentant members who were ascertained to be innocent and forcefully conscripted to join the sect and categorized as victims. Additionally, monitoring mechanisms have been put in place to monitor their activities in the society”, he said. He disclosed that the gallant troops, through land and air offensives, had successfully neutralized 392 bandits since the commencement of Operation KATSINA which he noted had seriously degraded the bandits and criminal elements in the North West and North Central regions while bandits fleeing from the attacks to carry out reprisal attacks on civilian targets were halted by Operation ACCORD. The North East presently parades a striking spectacle as troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE have vigorously sustained the offensive against Boko Haram terrorists and the Islamic West Africa Province (ISWAP) leading to the death of no fewer than ten top commanders enmeshed in frequent leadership changes, while many are surrendering in droves.