UNICEF has emphasized that the global Coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) entails stronger measures to support exclusive breast. Feeding This is even as the nation joins the rest of the world to celebrate this year’s world breast feeding which has the theme, “SUPPORTING BREASTFEEDING FOR A HEALTHIER PLANET” The call by UNCIEF came on the heels of its joint statement with the World Health Organization (WHO) made available to newsmen by UNCIEF’s representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins; urging government to evolve innovative solutions to protect and promote women’s access to breastfeeding counseling which it said is a critical component of breastfeeding support. The world body(UNICEF) noted that breastfeeding not only saves children’s lives, as it provides antidotes that give babies a healthy boost, but also protect them against many childhood illnesses. According to the UNICEF representative in Nigeria, while researchers continue to test breast milk from mothers with confirmed or suspected COVID-19, the organization stated that current evidence indicate that it is unlikely that COVID-19 would be transmitted through breastfeeding. His words,“the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic like most emergencies leaves families with children in an extremely vulnerable position and given the present lack of evidence that transmission of the virus could occur through breastmilk, we recommend that mothers should be encouraged to initiate and to continue to breastfeed their babies while observing good hygiene practices, so said Peter Hawkins UNCIEFS representative in the country”. According to Hawkins, the two World bodies (UNICEF and WHO) recommends that babies be fed only with breast milk for their first 6 months, after which they should continue breastfeeding as well as eating other nutritious and safe foods until 2 years of age or beyond. Cautioning that breast milk substitutes such as infant formula, other milk products and beverages not only contribute negatively to the health and development of the child, but also to environmental degradation and climate change, the two bodies revealed that only 29 percent of the children in the country between the ages of 0 to 6 months are exclusively breastfeeding. According to him, UNICEF and WHO also took exception to the aggressive marketing of breast milk substitutes, which it said is a major barrier to improving newborn and child health. Hawkins, explained that UNICEF charged relevant agencies to strictly enforce adherence to the National Regulation on the code of marketing of breast milk substitutes and relevant World Health Assembly (WHA) resolutions by putting to a stop the unwholesome marketing of breast milk substitutes. “Through strengthened policy provisions and increased investment for breastfeeding, we can ensure that mothers in Nigeria are empowered to breastfeed their babies, Hawkins stated, adding that breast feeding still remains the safest during and after the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic.