President Muhammadu Buhari has commended initiators of the 6,000 barrel per day capacity Edo Modular Refinery. The President stated this during the pre-commissioning and inspection at the project site of the refinery at Ologbo, Ikpoba Okha local government area of the state which is now over 95%  completion. Represented by his Senior Special Assistant on Niger Delta Affairs, Mr. Edobor Iyamu, President Buhari also commended the Edo State Government for ensuring that the modular refinery didn’t die at conceptualization stage. He said the establishment of the refinery in the state is in line with the new vision for the Niger Delta, ensuring that the people benefit maximally from the wealth in the region and is aimed at promoting the establishment of modular refinery projects in the area to attract investment into the oil and gas sector “This is the result of the recommendations by the vice president of Nigeria Prof. Yemi Osibanjo who In 2016, embarked on the tour of the region where he met with key stakeholders to deliberate on issues on improving the social economic wellbeing of the people of Niger Delta region, which is in line with the six-point agenda of Mr. President,” he added. Earlier, the Chairman, Edo Refinery and Petrochemical Company, Mr. Michael Osime, who was represented by the Company’s Global Advisor, Frans Ojielu, said the refinery is a 6,000 barrels per day modular which was issued license on December, 2018 and approval to construct in March 2019 by the Department of Petroleum Resources, (DPR). He said haven achieved 95% mechanical completion it was right to begin the pre-commissioning activities. According to him, the product of the refinery will be diesel, fuel oil and naptha which is raw material for petrochemical companies. “We have reached an advanced stage in the refinery development where we have to introduce hydrocarbon. We have applied to the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to supply crude to the refinery on phase one. In addition we have also commenced crude supply discussion with marginal field owners as the refinery is designed to use various grades of crude. “The company is setting up a fabrication yard to boost local capacity to produce materials and provide a robust support for establishment of more modular refineries.” Osime noted that discussions are ongoing with Ambrose Alli University to assist in setting up a chemical department to train students in oil and gas industries in Nigeria and that the joint companies behind the success story the refinery has also commenced plans to build 30,000 barrels per day refinery as an expansion. ‘Peiyang Chemical Equipment Company Limited and AIPCC Energy Limited as core investors are committed to providing most of the funding for the expansion. While appreciating the effort made by the state government for the 700 million support which he said will be pay back as soon as production commences, Osime noted that the refinery is privately owned. 