The managing director, Total Exploration and Production, Mr Mike Sangster said his company is determine to be part of the solution to climate change with a commitment to delivering affordable and clean energy to the population. Mr Sangster who disclosed this on Tuesday while making a remark at the ongoing Society of Petroleum Engineers Nigeria Energy Industry Transformation Summit (NEITS)  2020 said the company have made important investments locally in new direction which the energy industry is head and implemented several initiatives that are already impacting the Nigerian energy landscape positively. He listed such initiatives to included ear 1.5 million people having been impacted from sale of 400,000 Total solar lamps since 2013 according to Global Lighting Off-grid Association estimates. Worldwide, 10 million people have been impacted. He added that out of 577 service stations operated by the company across the country, more than 77 have been solarized as at the end of January 2020. Stressing that the initiative is  an ongoing programme which has a  target of ensuring that the company’s stations all become solarized. “We have also deployed over 150 residential solar solutions across the country,” he said. “Our investment in the NLNG from the beginning till now, is partly derived from our commitment to the production of cleaner and better energy,” he added. According to him, Total’s ambition is to become the responsible energy major and to get to Net Zero carbon emissions by 2050. On how this will be achieved, he said three major steps which includes, Net Zero on Operations by 2050 or sooner; Net Zero in Europe by 2050 or sooner and 60 per cent or more Net Carbon Intensity reduction by 2050, will be deployed. “In order to achieve these objectives, we have identified some key initiatives: Promoting the use of natural gas, biogas and hydrogen; Investing in low carbon electricity, mainly from renewables; Investing in low cost oil and biofuels; and Investing in carbon sinks that are essential to achieving carbon neutrality, either nature-based solutions or carbon capture and storage. In his remarks, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, said the proposed Petroleum Industry Bill would ensure that the abundant natural gas resources is used to promote national development. He added that in collaboration with stakeholders, the Ministry, under his watch, would promote domestic utilization of gas resources so as to create job opportunities for Nigerians. Delivering the keynote address, the President, SPE International, Shauna Noonan, clarified that the concept of energy transition was not to wipe out fossil fuel but rather an aspiration for cleaner energy. She said the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Nigeria Council, has a great role to play in reducing energy poverty, noting that energy transition was important for greater value in the global oil and gas industry. Earlier in his welcome remark, the Chairman, SPE Nigeria Council, Mr. Joseph Nwakwue, said the society was ready to offer professional services and work with all stakeholders to move the industry forward. He informed that part of the society was focused on capacity building to develop the required skill set for the oil and industry operations, stressing that it was what informed the choice of the theme of the conference. 