* Vows to operate e-parliament The acting Clerk to the National Assembly, Olatunde Amos Ojo, has said that the nation’s highest legislative body was ready to partner with critical stakeholders like Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement (YIAGA Africa) for capacity development. Ojo, who stated this on Friday when the Centre for Legislative Engagement, an arm of YIAGA Africa, paid him a courtesy visit in his office at the NASS complex in Abuja, added that the NASS management under his watch will also work to ensure that the National Assembly operates an e-parliament. He pointed out that his administration has a goal to transform the National Assembly “for better deliveries of constitutional responsibilities that is of international standard in lawmaking, representation and oversight.” The acting CNA also said that the National Assembly management will work to ensure that anybody that comes to the Assembly to seek information can get it at the click of a button. “Whatsoever we need to do for this, we have decided to make sure that we do it at this time. “One among this is the training and retraining of our staff members inclusive of our legislative aides also because for us to achieve this aim, we know that our staff need training and retraining and we are poised to make sure that this we do appropriately in conjunction with all ready organisations willing to support and back us up in this venture. Your organization, YIAGA, definitely will not be left out. “To this end, the management under my leadership will make sure that the work of the Assembly altogether, is done with utmost transparency, making sure that at all times everyone involved will be willing to do what he is expected to do and do it promptly also, the right way it should be done. “Our capacity development therefore will be a continuous process, making sure that the knowledge gaps we have in the various parts of the National Assembly are filled up so that from any part of the National Assembly, if you pick a staff, he speaks and acts as a legislative bureaucrat. “On Information and Communication Technology (ICT), we all know that the world now is technologically united. “So, we want to make sure that the National Assembly operates e-parliament and to operate e-parliament, we have to develop our ICT so that when anyone comes into the National Assembly, whether as a media man or you belong to one group or the other, you can easily log on and access anywhere in the world and we will make accessibility to lawmaking and everything on National Assembly free for everybody, the moment you enter into this place,” Ojo said. Earlier, the Executive Director of YIAGA Africa, Samson Itodo, who led the delegation, said the visit was to congratulate the acting Clerk on his appointment and as well prevail on him to deepen openness in the workings of the parliament. “There are a few issues that are very germane to us beyond this congratulatory visit. Key among them is the huge opportunity that avails to you as a Clerk of the National Assembly to protect openness at the National Assembly. “The National Assembly is one institution that is most misunderstood by Nigerians and likely so because the communications and public engagement with citizens has not been as desired and as a Clerk, there is a lot of expectations that given your experience and also your disposition, that you will bring that to bare in this leadership role in providing citizens access to the National Assembly as well as citizens participation. “It is very important and there are diverse ways this can happen. With the COVID-19 pandemic, technology provides a huge opportunity and so e-parliament should be a top agenda,” Itodo added.