This column today plays host to the Jumu’ah Khutbah delivered by Prof. Ibrahim Maqari on the first of al-Muharram, 1442 AH (August 21, 2020) at the National Mosque, Abuja. The oration, discussing the profound significance of Hijrah, the movement of Prophet Muhammad Sallallahu Alayhi wa Sallam, and his companions from Makkah to Medeenah, takes the audience on a journey to explore the importance of time in human life and its centrality to his success or failure.  Jum’ah Khutbah (Muharram 1, 1442 AH  — August 21, 2020) In the name of Allah the Most Gracious the Most Merciful. Allah alternates the night and the day. Indeed in that is a lesson for those who have vision. (an-Nur 24: 44) Brethren in faith, The succession of days, months, years and their circulation is one of the greatest cosmic signs that Allah enjoins us to reflect on. This is because time is one of the greatest provisional blessings in which everyone is equal. The only disparity lies in how individuals utilise their time. One who spends his time seeking the pleasure of Allah is not the same as that who passes through days and years without any change aside from physical appearance. In a narration by Anas bin Malik, the Messenger of Allah, Sallallahu Alayhi wa Sallam said: “The hour shall not be established until time is constricted, and the year is like a month, a month is like a week, and the week is like the day, and the day is like the hour, and the hour is like the flare of the fire.” This prophecy would apply perfectly to today’s digital era where people spend time quite uselessly. You’d see someone waste long hours on social media that when the whole time is added up, he will not but end up rebuking himself. (What a waste!) One day, Hasan al-Basri stood at a funeral and said to his friend, “If this returns to this world, what would he do?” ‘A lot of acts of obedience’, he replied. Al-Hassan said: ‘The chance for those acts has eluded him, so do not allow it to elude you.’ According to one of the righteous, man, since his birth, is on a journey. This life journey ends either in Heaven or in Hell. May Allah make us among the dwellers of Heaven. Dear believers, we stand today on another threshold and page of history. As years pass by, the only one that can truly relish in joy is the one who spent those years seeking the pleasure of Allah, without any moment, day or night, eluding him. Dear believers, praise be to Allah that preserves and gives you a new opportunity to correct the past, as you learn from the recurring lessons that come with each year. To this end, enough of the perpetuation of sin, indolence and recalcitrant behaviours. From this moment, take the leap unto a new life, one that Allah Almighty wanted for us, a life of prosperity as He had decreed (in Quran 11: 61) “He created you from the earth and settled you therein (i.e. He made you prosperous on earth)” and a life of devotion to Him, the One and Only God, as He had ordered, “I have only created the jinn and mankind to worship Me.” (Quran 51: 56)  The Second Khutbah: Brethren in faith, One of the greatest words in the history of Islam and in the identity of Muslims is Hijrah. This word symbolises the beginning of the history of Muslims in general, as the emergence of the Prophet, Sallallaahu Alayhi wa Sallam as a messenger of Allah is symbolic of the inception of Islam as a religion. More so, Hijrah ushered in the birth of the Islamic world and its great civilisation which illuminated the whole world with divine light and knowledge, dispelling the dark clouds of polytheism and misguidance that had encapsulated the universe. The word Hijrah and its sparkling connotation cannot be absent from the memory of the Muslim even for the twinkling of an eye, for it is not just a calendar by which the passage of day and night is merely calculated. Rather, it is, brethren in faith, the birth of a nation, the emergence of light, and the liberation of mankind from all shackles and manacles. Besides, Hijrah bears a plethora of lessons that cannot be summed up in any volume of a book let alone a sermon. However, I have drawn out one lesson from the highly benefiting extensive list, and that is “trust in Allah”— an unlimited faith for which the bearer ditches his own human stratagem and contrivance for the Will of God, the Never-Failing. The kind of confidence in which the Prophet, Sallallahu Alayhi wa Sallam, when the non-believer pursuers closed in on him in the Cave of Hira, said to Abubakr: “What do you think of a duo of believers, the third of whom is Allah?” Allah says, reportedly: If you do not aid the Prophet—Allah has already aided him when those who disbelieved had driven him out [of Makkah] as one of two, when they were in the cave and he said to his companion, “Do not grieve; indeed Allah is with us.” And Allah sent down his tranquillity upon him and supported him with angels you did not see and made the word of those who disbelieved the lowest, while the word of Allah – that is the highest. And Allah is Exalted in Might and Wise. (at-Taubah 9: 40) Brethren in faith, the meaning and essence of Hijrah did not end with this story. Although the Hijrah of fleeing from Makkah to Medina for the sake of Islam did end with the conquest of Makkah, one Hijrah remains binding on Muslims. That is the Hijrah of “self-conquest” in which a Muslim relinquishes all sordid behaviours and bids farewell to polytheism and idolatry as well as the filth of jealousy and ill-intentions in the quest of immersion in the light of monotheism and devotion to the One and Only God. This particular Hijrah, with its illuminating light, remains forever. The Prophet, Sallallahu Alayhi wa Sallam said: “The Muslim is the one from whose tongue and hand others are safe, and the Muhajir is the one who forsakes that which Allah has forbidden to him.” 