Reading through Bayo Oluwasanmi’s piece of the above title as published by Sahara Reporters on Monday August 17, 2020, one could be forgiven for having a sense of déjà vu. You have a feeling that we have been here before. An intuition that you know where this is coming from. And the knowledge that you’re definitely sure of the end it is meant to serve. These ill-concealed but poorly-conceived third-rate amateurish conspiracy of evil is doomed to fail even before it leaves the production floor. You cannot continue to build something on nothing. What you get, for as long as you do that, is nothing. Zero. Nada. Mr Oluwasanmi’s vituperation is nothing more than yet another in a long line of unceasing vilification of President Muhammadu Buhari but done through a circuitous route of taking potshots at the person of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who’s held vicariously liable for being loyal to his principal! If you ever doubted the agenda, look not beyond the following lines in Mr Oluwasanmi’s article, for all it is worth: “Osinbajo has dutifully stood by General Buhari, mustering a devotional gaze rarely seen by an intellectual to an illiterate and ignorant president. What a comical mismatch!” Please when did being loyal to your boss become a crime? Would Mr Oluwasanmi and his gang have preferred a situation where the VP was perpetually at loggerheads with the President in order to satisfy their own inordinate ambition? Would these preachers of hate and divisive politics want a return to the days of bitter feuding between President Olusegun Obasanjo and Vice President Abubakar Atiku which not only grounded state matters but also denigrated the dignity attached to the highest offices in the land? So much for intellectualism and neutrality. For an article which purports to discuss and dissect the ‘corrupt’ practices of the Vice President, Mr Oluwasanmi somehow weaves the President’s name into the narration even though he, and others like him, have not been able to pin any act of sleaze on Buhari. And this is not for lack of trying. They certainly have tried to do that without success. And, talking about VP Osinbajo and these perennial allegations of corruption which will not go away, isn’t it instructive that Mr Oluwasanmi is bringing up this accusation of sleaze few days after an agent of one of his co-travellers was forced to eat the humble pie? In a widely shared release, BusinessDay newspaper profusely apologised for publishing the unfounded lie by former APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary Timi Frank about a phantom N10billion withdrawal from the Treasury Single Account allegedly by VP Osinbajo. In its apology, BusinessDay said inter alia that: “the story failed to meet the editorial standards of BusinessDay Newspaper, as we have since discovered that the story was baseless, unfounded and unsupported by any factual substance.” While we may overlook the fact that BusinessDay ought to know better than rush to press with that spurious tale in the first instance, it is gratifying to note that the newspaper subsequently disabled the links to the story and forwarded a formal letter of apology to Osinbajo. This retraction by BusinessDay bears striking resemblance to a similar one from Vanguard newspapers on September 25, 2019 to the same VP Osinbajo over a N90billion allegation from the same Timi Frank. It, therefore, shouldn’t come as a surprise that Mr Oluwasanmi reaches far back to July 2019 – over a year ago – to reprise a well-worn allegation which every reasonable person is blasé about. That level of desperation to pin a charge, any charge at all, on the person of Vice President Osinbajo is disconcerting. For careful observers of this game, there is a regularity and pattern which is easily predictable in its emptiness. It is big on verbosity but thin on logic, sensible only to those who hawk it for their own devilish ends. The strategy, for those who can read between the lines, is very simple: Keep hammering your tissue of lies until you have enough people who will believe and adopt it as the gospel truth. In this, they have adopted the Goebbelian truism that: “if you repeat a lie often enough, people will believe it, and you will even come to believe it yourself.” This is a direct copy from Joseph Goebbels, Adolf Hitler’s Minister of Propaganda from whom, it appears, Mr Oluwasanmi and his band have learnt the purest form of this evil. When will this theatre of absurdity cease? When will these purveyors of falsehood rest or find a novel way of hawking their treachery? This spouting of outlandish and illogical allegations which, it must be noted, the VP has strenuously denied time and again is nauseating, easily predictable and totally unjust. As much as the VP is bent on ignoring these liars from the pit of hell, their sponsors and co-travellers because, as they say, “when you wrestle with a pig, the pig gets happy and you get dirty,” yet any lie left unchallenged soon takes on a life of its own and becomes the truth in the warped imagination of its purveyors. But if VP Osinbajo must respond to every allegation by the Oluwasanmis of this world and their fellow agents of distraction, pray, when would he have the time to help the President deliver on his mandate, twice given freely by the electorate, to the Nigerian people? Except if, as it is legitimate to ask, they’re more interested in rabble-rousing than patriotic interventions in the affairs of state in which case we have to question their humanity. Or a lack of it. Abdullahi Haruna