It is an ineluctable fact that benefits
of education are societal and personal.
It is also observed that any society with
high rate of education completion have
lower crime, better overall health, and
civic involvement. Beyond the need for
workers to fill specific jobs, there are
grander reasons to encourage people
to be educated, being the reasons the
executive governor of Kebbi State,
Abubakar Atiku Bagudu is prioritizing
the education of his people. More so, education leads to economic
prosperity in the global marketplace.
One of the most important effects
education has on society is giving the
people who live in a society the skills
they need to compete in the global
marketplace, and the skills they need to
produce technological goods or services
that can be sold on the open market.
It is on record that the educational
sector in Kebbi had previously
suffered serious neglect by previous
administration but today under the
leadership of Bagudu, the sector has
witnessed tremendous turn around,
creating a good atmosphere for learning
and teaching process. However, the change mantra of
Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu
has extended its olive branch to the
sector. The story is now a happy one.
In the last five years, the Kebbi State
Government undertook massive
renovation and reconstruction of new
and existing primary, secondary and
tertiary institutions across the state. It
will be recalled that, even before he was
sworn in as the governor of the state,
he made numerous unscheduled visits
to primary and secondary schools, as
well as some tertiary institutions in the
state, with a view of having fast hand
information and personal assessment
of the schools in the state. In his inaugural speech on the 29th
May, 2015, he noted that the sector is
in a shambles, schools over stretched
without qualified teachers and
structural infrastructure like classes,
toilets and dormitories are in ruins over
the years. To demonstrate his determination
to overhaul the educational sector
in the state, education received the
highest allocation in his maiden budget.
Governor Bagudu doled out over 5
billion Naira for the renovation of both
primary and secondary schools in the
state, including setting aside additional
funds for the purchase of assorted
learning materials in that same year
to 2016. Governor Bagudu is one of the
governors not only in the northern
part of the country but in Nigeria at
large that has continuously and physical
inspected schools’ facilities.
In keeping with his electioneering
campaign promises, the Governor set
the ball rolling in the educational sector
by embarking on massive public schools
rehabilitation to the tune of billions of
naira, with the aim of improving and
changing the educational sector, as
well as making schools students’ and
teachers’ friendly for learning. Since he assumed office as the
number one citizen of the state, he had
awarded a contract for the renovation of
25 secondary schools across the state.
The schools cut across the six zones;
Argungu, Birnin Kebbi, Bunza, Jega,
Yauri, and Zuru. To further enhance
teaching and learning. In 2019,
Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu also
approved the recruitment of a large
number of teachers for schools across
the state. Girls secondary Schools across
the state from each of the 4 senatorial
zones were provided with new busses to
facilitate their movement, to take part
in sports and extracurricular activities,
within and outside the state. More so, as responsible leader, since
he assumed office, Governor Abubakar
Atiku Bagudu has ensured the prompt
payment of scholarship to students
studying at various institutions of
higher learning, within and outside
the state, including the payment of
WAEC and NECO examination fees for
secondary School students of the state,
this is an effort that the residents of the
state considered as kind hearted nature
of him. It is also on record that; the Kebbi
Government had upgraded three
higher institutions which are under
the Ministry for Higher Education. The
Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
for Higher Education in the State, Dr.
Isa Muhammad Sama, confirmed the
development. The three institutions
upgraded are Adamu Augie College of
Education, Argungu, the Kebbi State
School of Nursing and Midwifery,
Birnin Kebbi and the School of Health
Technology, Jega. – Adubi, a journalist and media
consultant, writes from Kaduna