Former commissioner of information, tourism and Public Utilities in Imo state, Prof Vitalis Orikaeze Ajumbe has backed Mamman Daura’s call for the Country to jettison zoning arrangement in the 2023 presidential election, insisting that zoning has destroyed good governance. Speaking to newsmen in Abuja, Ajumbe who was a former state chairman of the defunct All Nigerian People’s Party (ANPP) stated that zoning was responsible for what the country is suffering today. The party Chieftain who said that he was concerned on the political future of the country further noted that it was time for the country to jettison the practice of zoning, adding that such practice breeds mediocrity against meritocracy. Ajumbe who acknowledged that power has been rotating between the North and the South Said what the Country needs is good governance irrespective of where the person comes from, pointing out that zoning is anti-democratic. He said ” The argument is that the North has not equaled the South . South had 14 years and North 10years, in doctrine of necessity ,the North may be right. What we need is good governance irrespective of where the person comes from. I don’t really cherish zoning because what destroyed Nigeria is this going thing, why can’t we really round and get who can governor Nigeria very well. Look at the Abiola time we had Muslim Muslim ticket, we want that kind of spirit now, zoning breeds mediocrity, it will not give Nigeria what it want. Let’s allow merit to play, merit will play when we have a good system.” Asked if his position does not run against the clamour for a president of South East extraction, Ajumbe who admitted that the south East has qualified people to occupy the presidency noted that the zone was not yet united for the project, regretting that division amongst the political class will not allow it to be achieved. “The Igbo’s are not United, they will fight themselves. An Anambra man will not want another person outside Anambra to succeed. Who is the rallying point. The only thing I can say is that we need the Vice President, then we can have a rallying point”