The ministry of Water Resources has created a total number of 57,261
direct jobs and 111,588 indirect jobs through the various dam,
irrigation and water supply projects completed by the ministry. Minister of Water Resources, Engr Suleiman Adamu, who gave the hint
said the ministry was determined and would not relent in improving
access to potable water, reduce incidence of water borne diseases, as
well as tackle poverty through provision of food security, irrigation
agriculture. He noted: “In line with Mr. President’s desire to lift 100 million
Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years, the Ministry has
ensured that both direct and indirect jobs are created in the
Implementation of its projects/programmes. “A total of 57,261 direct jobs and 111,588 indirect jobs have been
created through the various dam, irrigation and water supply projects
completed within the reporting period”. Speaking during a virtual press briefing in Abuja on his stewardship
in the first year of his second tenure in office from August 2019 till
date, Adamu said the ministry had left no stone unturned in the
implementation of water resources projects and programmes, while
tackling the problems of unemployment and insecurity challenges facing
the nation. Adamu noted that although the target may be a herculean task, the
ministry will push further to sustain the laudable landmark in the
water sector and other aspects in ensuring the realisation of the
‘Next Level Agenda’ programme of the Buhari administration. He stated that so far, the agenda is borne out of three cardinal
issues of economic diversification, social inclusiveness and security
which are succinctly aligned with the vision, mission and mandate of
the ministry. Adamu said in the last one year in office, two dams have been
completed namely Amauzari Dam in IMO State and Amla Otukpo Earth Dam
in Benue State respectively. According to him, this have brought about through the WASH Action
Plan, the provision of 34 water supply projects; construction of 159
Rural Water Supply Schemes in the North-East, IDPs camps and some
federal institutions and establishments, full commencement of the
PEWASH Programme with the award of contracts for the
construction/rehabilitation/upgrading of 895 water supply schemes in
10 states of Imo, Katsina, Jigawa, Plateau, Zamfara, Sokoto, Ondo,
Osun, Delta and Bauchi. Adamu said in all, these have resulted in additional 2.4million
Nigerians gaining access to potable water supply. He explained that the flagship of The Partnership for Expanded Water
Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (PEWASH), launched in 2016, has
resulted in 33 state governments actively involved in endorsing the
PEWASH protocols, while the other 3 states, FCT inclusive, are
enjoined to be part of the moving train in accordance with Sustainable
Development Goals. “Moving forward, the Ministry is poised to consolidate on past gains
to set the water sector on the path of enviable growth and development He listed some of targets of the ministry to included completion of
some dams by December, 2020 namely “Mangu Dam, Plateau State (89%
completion), Adada Dam, Enugu Sate (90% completion), Gadau/Lafia
Zigau, Bauchi State (80% completion), Ingawa/Dallaji, Katsina Sate
(70% completion)”. Others are “compliance with provisions of the Water Resources
Masterplan for   all future major projects; implementation of the
Action Plan on Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) as approved by the
Federal Executive Council and the PEWASH programme, in order to attain
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of Access to
Water Supply and Sanitation (SDG 6) for all by Year 2030 and rigorous
implementation of the “Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet” Campaign
nationwide, towards ending Open Defecation in Nigeria by 2025”.