The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) yesterday called for dedicated al- location of forex to the country’s health- care and pharmaceutical industry. It said although the applications of some healthcare/pharmaceutical companies that applied for the special N100billion CBN facility have been granted, majority of the appli- cants are yet to be successful. Accordingly, PSN’s president, Pharm Sam Ohuabunwa, implored the federal government to expedite the review and approval of many of the outstanding applications so that the overall impact on industrial capacity, capability and output will be significantly enhanced in line with the noble objectives of the facility. Ohuabunwa stressed that the call became necessary, especially as the COVID-19 pandemic subsists, even as there was need for self-sufficiency in local drug production persists. In a statement he issued yesterday, the PSN president said, “Again, the feedback we receive is that many of the beneficiary companies are experiencing tremendous difficulties in accessing foreign exchange to pay for the machinery and equipment in order. Many are compelled to source forex from sundry sources at much higher rates than the official CBN rate. “The impact of this portends grave danger and may undermine the noble objectives. First the longer it takes to get the machines and equipment in, the longer it will be for Nigeria to begin to see an enhanced local production. “Second, the longer it takes, the more difficult it will be for the benefit- ting companies to begin production and generate cash flow to meet the interest and repayment obligation, as the moratori- um is fast depleting. “Third is that with forex at rates higher than the planned or forecasted rates in the business plan, the money received in Naira may no longer be sufficient to meet the sta- ted needs. “And fourth is that the longer the Naira is left in the Banks awaiting piecemeal allocation of Forex, the faster the value depreciates by growing inflation and the fewer the number of machinery and equipment or even raw materials that can be bought. “All these will put an additional burden on the beneficiary companies when it comes to ser- vicing the loans in a timeous manner.” Ohuabunwa said the PSN was making a spe- cial appeal to the CBN to consider making the spe- cial and dedicated allocation of foreign exchange to the beneficiary companies so that they can procure their machinery/ equipment and raw materials in a timely manner.