The Senate has directed the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) to commence the release of one per cent of revenue accruing to the
federation account to the   National Agency for Science and
Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) to carry out statutory functions
of the agency. The chairman, Senate Committee on Finance, Sen. Solomon Adeola, made
by the call during the on-going public hearing of the Senate Joint
Committees on Finance and National Planning, saying the federation
account should be the funding mechanism of the agency.  “The Act which set up NASENI in 2004 also had stipulated that the
provision of one per cent of funds accruing to the federation account
should be the funding mechanism of the agency. These provisions, he
affirmed, were all laws of the hallowed chambers of the Nigeria
National Assembly, and therefore must be obeyed to the letter,” he
said.  He reiterated that NASENI Act must be implemented by the executive in terms
of funding through the Office of the AGF, effective from September,
2020, as stipulated by the law which set up the agency way back in
1992. Adeola said the agency should be challenged to come up with
new innovative solutions to drive Nigeria’s economy in the
direction towards modernization, or reforms of the national economy
through technology and innovations.  “NASENI had proven it had the potential to turn around positively the
Industrial and technology fortunes of Nigeria through research and
development, design and manufacturing of capital goods and
technologies,” he added.  The committee directed NASENI to come up with a blueprint of ways
forward especially with the funding being expected from the federation
account, including expected targets and benefits of its technologies
for the industrial development of the nation.  In his remarks, the executive vice chairman of NASENI, Prof. Mohammed
Sani Haruna, who led a team of management staff of the agency to the
public hearing, expressed the agency’s gratitude to the Senate for the
directive on NASENI statutory funding, pledging that the agency would
not relent in its efforts to transform the Nigerian economy from
resource based economy to a knowledge driven or a manufacturing
oriented economy.