The Senate has commended the Ocean Marine Solution Limited (OMSL) for its genuine interest in investing over $400 million at the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA) of the Lagos Ports. This is even as the Senate cleared the firm of illegal security activities at the SAA. The resolution to that effect was passed on December 18, 2019, upon the consideration of a report on investigation into the allegation by the Joint Committee on Navy, Marine Transport and Finance. The upper chamber  noted that the firm had provided the needed platforms and logistics for the Nigerian Navy to effectively perform its 24/7/365 patrol operations as well as to provide the required protection for vessels waiting to berth at the Lagos Ports. It said,  “No fraud is found in the operations of the OMSL and is operating at no cost to government, OMSL should be allowed to continue its operations at the SAA until such a time when a better and more cost-effective system is put in place by the government.” Regardless of the resolution made by the  41 joint Senate committee, the minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi had said that the SAA contract being operated by Ocean Marine Security Limited (OMSL) with the Nigerian Navy in Lagos was laced with fraud. Amaechi noted that the chairman of OMSL, Hosa Okunbo, did not have the approval of the federal government to operate the so-called secure anchorage area. According to him, “What security was he providing? He charges each vessel on the waters $2,500, then after that, it will be  $1,500 everyday”. “He doesn’t pay back that money to the federal government”. “He makes $17million from that activity. Who approved it? Nobody! So as Minister for Transport, I said no, we can provide that security. $195 million was approved by the Federal Government to a company that is training Nigerians that will take over the waterways, and take care of the security, then Okunbo is now saying no no, I must do it, he can’t. I wonder why our personal interest will override national interest. I wonder what kind of country we belong to.” He  challenged the OMSL chairman to come forward with the approval letter he got from the Federal Government to provide maritime security on the nation’s waterways. “Now the second aspect beyond ranking number one in the world in insecurity is the fact that we are notorious as a country in the whole of Gulf of Guinea; 80 per cent of the crimes in the Gulf of Guinea is committed in Nigerian waters.  