The Managing Director, Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), Engr.
Nuruddeen Rafindadi, has assured that the agency will ensure total
compliance to SERVICOM principles and directives in the implementation
of the Open Government Partnership (OGP) and 2nd National Action Plan
(NAPII). He made this known in his welcome address on the occasion of the
Advocacy visit to the Agency by the National Coordinator/CEO on
Wednesday in Abuja, while promising that the Agency shall always
provide adequate information to all customers, both internal and
external on the processes for seeking redress in case they are not
satisfied or have concerns on services received. Rafindadi said the advocacy visit of the National Coordinator/CEO
SERVICOM and her team was a show of commitment to actualizing the
success of the SERVICOM initiative on the implementation of OGP NAPII. The FERMA boss disclosed that the Agency already had in place an
effective and working SERVICOM Unit with experts from different
Departments that are driving SERVICOM principles in the implementation
of OGP. The National Coordinator/CEO, SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemeli, said
the visit was to seek the partnership of the Agency on “delivering on
commitments in improved service delivery Thematic Areas.” She said Open government Partnership is a global coalition of
reformers from government and civil society working together to make
government more transparent, participatory and accountable to truly
serve and empower citizens. The SERVICOM Coordinator said the OGP initiative is governed by four
key principles which include Transparency, Accountability, Citizen
Participation and Technology and Innovation. Akajemeli further disclosed that the OGP which was founded in 2011 by
eight (8) countries was signed into by the President of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari in July 2016, thereby making
commitment to ensure full implementation of the processes to fight
corruption and assure accountable, transparent, citizen focused and
improved service delivery to Nigerians. These commitments she said, are contained in the First National Plan
(NAPI) with 2 years implementation period (2017-2019), having Fiscal
Transparency, Anti-corruption, Access to information and citizen’s
engagement as it Thematic pillars.