Air Peace Airline, today sacked some of its pilots over disagreements in salary and allowances. For some time, the airline has been involved in a protracted disagreement over pay cut and reviewed remuneration between the pilots and the management. During their dialogue, the airline management had proposed the pay cut barely on resumption of flights after over four months of suspension, arguing that continuing with the extant salary structure was not sustainable in view of the low passengers’ patronage due to Covid-19. LEADERSHIP gathered that the airline management had made efforts to pacify the pilots numbering about 75 who have been agitating for the pay issue, so that they can see reason for the pay cut, which the carrier said was beyond it in view of the negative impact of COVID-19 on the aviation business. In an official statement issued Monday, signed by the Air Peace management, the airline stated that the Management of Air Peace wishes to state that it has taken a very painful but rightful decision, in the circumstances the airline has found itself as a result of the devastating effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on its operations and financial health, to terminate the employment of some of its pilots. According to the airline, “this decision was taken for the greater good of the company and its almost 3000 workforce, the affected pilots inclusive. The airline cannot afford to toe the path of being unable to continue to fulfill its financial obligations to its staff, external vendors, aviation agencies, maintenance organisations, insurance companies, banks and other creditors hence the decision to restructure its entire  operations with a view to surviving the times”. ” The pandemic has hit every airline worldwide so badly that it has become very impossible  for airlines to remain afloat without carrying out internal restructuring of their costs. Anything short of what we have done may lead to the collapse of an airline as could be seen in some places worldwide during this period. Therefore, we decided to review the salaries being paid to all staff. The new salaries reflect a 0%-40% cut of the former salary depending on the salary grades of every staff. Even after the cuts, it was obvious that for us to be able to sustain our operations and survive the times, some jobs must inevitably have to go”. Air Peace has never, for one day, ever owed salaries to its workers in its almost six years of existence, pilots inclusive. Rather the management of Air Peace has always been known to be increasing salaries of its employees periodically without being prompted by staff. In fact, in one fell swoop, Air Peace increased the salaries of pilots by over 100% in one day! Our salaries have always been paid even before the end of the month in the last 5 years”. “So we love all our staff.   This decision is inevitable under the circumstances we find ourselves. In order to protect the continuity of majority of the existing jobs and the possibility of creating new ones in future, Air Peace pointed out that the survival of the airline is of paramount importance. “When everything comes back to normal  those pilots affected today will have a place to come back to in future if they so wish.  The decision is a reflection of the negative impact of the pandemic on airlines and aviation worldwide. We are in trying times. Even the biggest airlines in Europe, America, Middle East, Asia, Australia and, indeed, Africa, are all either slashing jobs and cutting salaries in order to remain afloat or are shutting down. Air Peace is not immune from these challenges”, the airline stated.