A former governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara, Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa has said that former governor of the state, Abdulaziz Yari initiated the litigation that cost APC Zamfara State during the 2019 general election. Marafa, a two-time senator in an interview in Abuja, said the former governor was the architect of the loss suffered by the APC in the state. Recalled that the APC lost the governorship, the three senatorial seats, seven House of Representatives seats and twenty four state house of assembly  seats to PDP in Zamfara state elections in the state following litigations that trailed the conduct of primary elections. But in an interview, Marafa, the key player in the legal battle, said it was Yari that laid the foundation for the APC loss not him “With due respect to him (Yari), he was the aggressor. He was the one that wanted to retire me. I only fought back. “Let me put it very clear for all Nigerians to know; Yari was the one that conducted illegal primaries in the state and run to Zamfara State High Court and made three prayers. “The court to declare his primary elections legal, The court to compel APC National Headquarters to accept the results of his illegal primary elections and forward the results to INEC and the court to compel INEC to accept the forwarded results and allow the candidates to participate in the general educations. “The state high court granted all his prayers and even added that the list is sacrosanct and should not be altered by anybody (closing the window of a possible consensus by the party at the national level) “After the ruling of the state high court, we went to Court of Appeal Sokoto and challenged the ruling.
The three judges of the Court of Appeal unanimously quashed and threw out the judgement  of the lower court. “Not satisfied, Yari appealed to the Supreme Court, and the Supreme in its judgement not only agree with the Court of Appeal but went further to declare APC votes wasted and awarded 10million Naira cost in our favour! “So, who is the aggressor and spoiler in chief? Who caused the problem, I ask you? When did self-defense becomes a crime in this country? “Somebody comes to your house and attack you and your family with the intent of killing you and inherit your wealth, house, family and money and you rise up to defend your self,  family, money, and life. You killed him and somebody says you are a spoiler,
how ungodly? “With due respect, I think we need to be commended for defending our rights and our laws. ” We have strengthen and deepen our democratic process, we gave the aggressors a bloody nose, am sure nobody will attempt to do a similar thing anywhere in the future.” On the crack in Zamfara APC, he said, “We are still divided. I have my faction, Yari has his. The leadership of our party at the national level recognises Yari’s the people of Zamfara state recognise mine.”