As part of efforts to boost rail operations in the country, the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) will on September, 2020, commence passenger train operations from Itakpe to Warri and Lagos to Ibadan.  The managing director, Nigerian Railway Corporation, Engr. Fidet Okhiria, made this known on the side-lines of the closing ceremony of 10 administrative staff training, yesterday in Lagos. He said staff were trained on how to handle screening machines at the modern train terminals, especially along the Abuja to Kaduna corridor with the aim to boost confidence of passengers during screening at the train terminals as well as inside the train. “Although the construction of railway terminals, along the Lagos to Ibadan corridor has not been completed, the passenger train operations will commence from Lagos to Ibadan and Warri to Itakpe in the interim so as to meet yearnings of Nigerians,” he said. According to him, plans are underway to increase the frequency of passenger trains along the Abuja to Kaduna corridor from 8 to 14 trains per day while 4 trains will operate along the Warri-Itakpe corridor per day. Okhiria said 16 passenger trains will operate from Lagos to Ibadan and back per day when train operations commence by September this year.  The MD also noted that 10 coaches have already been designated for the Warri-Itakpe corridor while the locomotive engines will soon arrive Warri for operation. He added that standard gauge tracks have been laid up to Ebute-Metta junction where the Lagos to Ibadan passenger train is expected to take off. Harping on the training of 10 staff of the corporation at Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Training School, Okhiria, he said that NRC has built modern terminals comparable to airports especially in the Abuja to Kaduna railway corridor. He said further that the terminals have entry and exit points where passengers and luggages are screened so as to avert concealment of dangerous weapons, adding the staff were trained on how to handle x-ray and baggage screening equipment. 