Ekiti State Sports Council have commenced a three-day training of Sports Officers from the 16 Local Government Areas in the State in the game of badminton as part of efforts at boosting the game in the State.. Chairman of the State Sports Council, organisers of the training program, Dr Isaac Ayodele who declared the coaching clinic open on Wednesday in Ado-Ekiti said the trainees are expected to use what gathered at the clinic to train upcoming Badminton players in their respective Local Government Areas, towns and schools. “Sports Officers would later be trained in the rudiments of other sports like Athletics, Basketball and Tennis, with a view to transferring the knowledge to younger athletes across their local council areas” “The sponsorship of the training is at no cost to the State Government as it was funded through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) in line with the administrative style of Governor Fayemi,” he said. Ayodele reiterated the resolve of the present administration, through the sports council, to use youth participation in sports to enhance human capital development. A member of the board of the state sports council, Hon Samuel Dada noted that such training would assist to produce more coaches who would then bring up young athletes. The General Manager of the State Sports Council, Deji Samo also expressed gratitude to the State Government in its efforts in boosting Sports in the State. Samo, however stressed the need to reciprocate government’s gesture urging all stakeholders to support the efforts of government while also expressing confidence in the ability of the workforce to perform creditably. “The Chairman hit the ground running since his assumption of office and all the staff of Sports Council were aware of his dream and have all keyed into it.” “This dream calls for hard work and all hands must be on deck to see it fulfilled, said the General Manager. He then appealed to the sports officers to cooperate with the Chairman and Sports Council to move Ekiti State Sports to greater heights never before witnessed. The coaching clinic which commenced on Wednesday saw several demonstration games played by the state’s Badminton players who were co-ordinated by the State Coach, Olayinka Akinyemi. The training which is being held at Ado Ekiti Police Officers’ Mess Started on Wednesday will end on Friday 21st of August.