The people of Funtua local government area in Katsina state have resolved to approach President Muhammadu Buhari on a wide range of issues bordering on the development of the area. They also resolved to meet with the state governor, Rt. Hon. Aminu Bello Masari, on the same issues within the purview of the state government for quick attention. The decisions were part of the resolutions reached at the end of a one-day townhall meeting tagged ‘Pragmatic Discourse on The Priority Needs of Funtua’ held last Monday in Funtua. In a communique jointly signed by Engr. Tukur Muhammad Lawal and Engr Shamsuddeen Sani Babajo, chairman and secretary of the Townhall Organising Committee respectively, it said the meeting, which was the first of its kind, discussed general problems affecting the local government area and profered possible solutions. It added that the gathering noted that despite Funtua’s position as the agricultural, commercial, industrial and political centre of th state, the town has not received the attention it deserve for a long time, hence facing numerous challenges. It identified the challenges to include lack of a tertiary institution in the area, inadequate healthcare facilities, poor security architecture, imbalance political appointments, youth unemployment, among others. The meeting, therefore, recommended that a high-level committee should be constituted to seek the audience of President Buhari in order to plead with him to expedite action on the uncompleted key projects and initiation of necessary others in the area. The needs include the signing into law of the Bill establishing Federal University of Agriculture and Technology, Funtua which is awaiting concurrence of the National Assembly; establishment of a Federal Medical Centre; taking up of Funtua Dry Port and Funtua Economic Zone projects; and construction of a standard railway gauge from Zaria – Funtua – Gusau – Sokoto – Kebbi; Funtua – Katsina and Funtua – Kano  routes. Others are the completion of the rehabilitation of Funtua to Zaria federal highway; completion of Police Area Command and Staff Quarters; and political appointment benefits. “The meeting unanimously agreed to inaugurate a steering committee for follow-up on the recommendations offered,” the communique added. The meeting was attended by stakeholders in Funtua local government area, notable among them were Governor of Masari, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Political Affairs, Alhaji Kabir Charanchi; Chief Judge of Katsina State, Hon. Justice Musa Danladi Abubakar; Senator representing Katsina South, Senator Bello Mandiya, represented by Alhaji Ibrahim Aminu Kafur; Member representing Funtua/Dandume in the House of Representatives Hon. Muntari Dandutse; elder statesman, Alhaji Dr Umaru Mutallab, Royal Father of the Day, Sarkin Maskan Katsina, District Head of Funtua, Alhaji Sambo Idris Sambo; member representing Funtua Constituency in the Katsina State House of Assembly, Hon Abubakar Muhamad Total; Prof. Haroun Usman Sanusi; Head of Local Government Administration, U.T. Mustapha; Commissioner, Ministry of Water Resources, Hon. Musa Adamu Funtua; Hon. Rabiu Idris Funtua; among other prominent personalities.