My name is Risikat Abdulazeez. And I am 30 years old. Did you go to school? Yes, I attended Alore Primary School for my primary education, Okelele Junior Secondary School for my JSS3 and Amule Secondary School – all in Ilorin for my senior secondary school. I got to the final class but didn’t sit for the examination both the West Africa School Certificate Examination and NECO Examination) because my parents could not pay the fees.  What are you doing for a living? When I could not sit the two examinations, my parents enrolled me as an apprentice in a patent medicine shop. After completing the apprenticeship, my boss gave me freedom and my parents established a medicine shop for me at Ayegbami quarter, Alagbado, Ilorin. I was operating the medicine shop when I got married about six years ago.  What is the name of your husband? His name is Abdulwasiu Oloye. He is a vulcanizer.  How did you meet? We met around the area where my medicine shop was located. We courted for some time before we got married. We did proper wedding in Islamic way. I wasn’t pregnant for him during the courtship. Before he married me, he was frequenting our house and he exhibited good character to my parents before I agreed to marry him.  I observ that you have blue eyes, how did it start?  When I was born, my parents discovered that the colour of my eyes was blue but they didn’t do anything to it since it did not affect my vision.  Did your classmates not make jest of you in school?  Yes, I faced a lot of embarrassment because they used to ridicule me by calling me a strange human being with strange eyes because the colour of my eyes was different from their own. They used to make jest of me. I reported them to our teachers in school and I also told my parents at home. Later, my parents took me to the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital to complain to the doctors about my eyes. The doctors examined me and said that my eyesight was normal and that there was nothing wrong with my eyes. Doctors at the Teaching Hospital (UITH) even took photographs with me after the test.  When your husband was dating you, did he not notice that you have blue eyes?  He knew that I have blue eyes, he didn’t complain about it.  Are you the mother of Kaosara who also has blue eyes?  Yes, my first daughter is Kaosara. She is about five years old and she was born with blue eyes. It is natural, Allah made it to be so.  Do you have other children? I have two other children. The children that followed Kaosara were twins; Hasanat Kehinde and Taiwo. Hasanat is a girl who was also born with blue eyes. But Taiwo was a male with black (normal) eyes. Unfortunately, Taiwo is now late. They were born about two and a half years ago.  How did your son, Taiwo, die? He was ill and we took him to the hospital for treatment, but I had no money to take proper care of the children because their father refused to give me money to take care of them. Taiwo died because of lack of care.  How old was he when he died? He died a few months ago. He was about two years old when he died.  When you had your children and you discovered they had blue eyes, how did you feel?  I didn’t feel bad about their blue eyes because I believe it is hereditary. They inherited it from me.  What kind of reactions did you get from people on the type of eyes that your children have?  There is no adverse reaction from the people about the colour of my children’s eyes since they have been seeing me, they are used to it. My children also have no problem with their playmates, they mix freely with them in the area we live.  Do you know or have you been told the reason behind the blue eyes?  No, I don’t know. Doctors at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital only told me that it was normal, they didn’t tell me that there is any science behind it.  You claimed that you were driven out by their father because you bear children with blue eyes. When did this happen?  This happened about a year ago when my husband told me to pack out of his house. He told me that his parents said that they could not live with children with blue eyes and that the children I have for him have blue eyes. My husband also said that his parents told him to marry a woman that would produce children with normal eyes. So, he told me to pack out of his house and I moved to my parents house.  Since you packed out, has he been visiting you?  He comes occasionally but would not give me and the children money. When I was in his house, he didn’t use to give me money for food, it was my parents who used to feed us. My mother would bring foodstuff from our house and would also give us money. That was how we were living. But I want to tell you that my husband and I are not fighting, it was his parents who said that they could not live with my children with blue eyes. They have forgotten that those children were created by God who made them to have blue eyes.  Which school does Kaosara attend? She has not started schooling because I have no money to put her in private school. I hope to enrol her in public school when she attains the school age which is six years.  How difficult has it been to feed the children since you moved out of your husband’s home?  It has not been easy because I have no means of sustaining myself and the children. The medicine shop established for me by my parents had been closed because we used the proceeds to feed when I was in my husband’s house since he failed to feed us. However, my parents whom I live with are catering for us, they are providing food and clothing for us.  Do the children ask about their father?  Yes, they ask occasionally. Their father also come to visit them and when he visits, he only brings bobo juice for them. But, he would not give me money to feed them.  What answer do you give to them? I tell Kaosara that her father is well.  What would you like her and her sister to become in future?  God who created us has plans for every individual. I don’t have any specific thing for her and her sister. I only wish that they would become great in future.  If your husband’s parents come to apologise and beg your family, will you accept to reconcile and go back to him?  No, it is no longer possible, I won’t go back. I’m not ready to marry him again. It is too late.  Are you going to remarry? I will remarry. I’m just 30 years old and I have two kids. I’m too young to live alone. Definitely, I will remarry. I want to have more children. If I want to remarry, I will look for a man who will take me as I am. 