Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, has condemned in strong terms marriage of same sex saying anti-same sex marriage bill was one of the things used against the re-election of President Goodluck Jonathan in the 2015 general elections. Okowa who spoke at the Retirement Thanksgiving Service for Primate Nicholas Okoh, at the St. Michael’s Anglican Church Owa-Alero, Ika North East Local Government Area of the State, paid tributes to the retired Primate, Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, for his fight against same-sex marriages. He said Primate Okoh stood for truth and deserved all the accolades for not succumbing to global pressures on the subject. “We have come here to thank God for giving us a brother and father such as our retired Primate, Most Rev’d Nicholas Okoh. “Since 2010 when he became Primate, life has returned to Owa Kingdom and Ika nation because he is always praying for us. He was true to his faith of Anglicanism, and I have always seen him as a role model. He lived through to that and am glad he carried on that position and the Lord blessed him. He said, “At a time when a lot of things were going on in the Anglican Communion worldwide, he stood like the soldier of truth that he is. He was one of the few African Primates who declined to attend a meeting over gay marriages. We thank God that he was not carried away by the global sentiments. “Even in the Senate when we passed the anti-gay marriage bill, there were all manner of pressures from all over the world and this anti-same sex marriage bill was one of the things used against the re-election of President Goodluck Jonathan,” he said “We thank God for him because we learnt a lot of things from him. He truly was a shining star and a true humble man; we are proud of him. Sometimes people say Okowa is humble, but when you look at the people, he looks up to humility is their lifestyle. “As a builder in the body of Christ he has done a lot in buidling for Christ and we will continue to be proud of him at all times. Being the first ever Primate from Delta, you made us proud and we give God the glory.” Okowa said. In his sermon, Primate ,Church of Nigeria Anglican Communion, the Most Rev’d Henry Ndukuba called on Nigerians to put their trust and seek the help of God in solving the challenges bedevilling the nation. He said God was willing to restore the nation’s glory if the people were willing to chose serving God in truth and in spirit. 