The founder and chairman, Integrated Cash Management Services Limited, Charles Nwodo Jnr, in this interview, speaks on ways cash processing companies can help reduce cost in the banking industry and the need for shared services. CHIMA AKWAJA brings the excerpts. What services do cash processing companies like yours render? The cash industry in Nigeria is relatively new and therefore just evolving and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) deserves credit for this development which aligns Nigeria with global best practice in currency operations. What we call the cash industry was part of what used to be called Branch and Currency Operations until it was excised and made a full Department of Currency Operations as part of the strategic and continuous efforts of the CBN to modernise the Nigeria financial industry. This move was both in recognition of the importance of cash and also to give vent and expression to the need to attract investments into the nascent cash industry.  Before Integrated Cash Management Services Limited (ICMS) and other industry operators were licenced to operate, the CBN was the main operator and in that situation was subsidising the banking industry by providing most of the currency distribution and processing for Nigerian banks at highly reduced costs. By licencing new operators in the cash value chain, the CBN was adapting the Nigeria cash industry to global best practices because in other parts of the world, the distribution, processing, securing and even packing of cash is done by private entities while central banks typically concern themselves with issuance of new notes and destruction of unfit notes as well as setting the standards for private operators in the value chain and monitoring compliance with the standards. To enable the CBN deploy resources and focus regulatory attention on these important roles was the main reason that ICMS and other operators were licenced to provide the services I listed earlier. The cash industry ecosystem is made up of cash-in-transit (CIT) companies, of which there are nine licensed companies and two cash processing companies of which ICMS is one. The CIT companies essentially distribute cash from point to point, city to city, branch to branch, branch to CBN and retailers to banks, etc. The cash industry value chain is made up of the following players: the retailers that generate a lot of cash, such as Shoprite, Spar, petrol stations, markets, sports betting companies, gambling/casinos, churches and mosques. And of course, you have the CIT companies and cash processing companies, banks and then, the CBN.  What are the challenges facing this segment of the financial industry? Today, part of the challenge we face is stopping malpractices like spraying of money at events, as well as hawking of new naira notes openly. Now, there is a policy that prohibits banks from issuing notes that have not been processed. The reason is because if they are not processed, the state of the notes cannot be determined. If they are not processed, you don’t even know whether they are counterfeits. If they are not processed, they continue to be recycled with the implication of rapidly polluting the rest of the notes that are fit for circulation. Presently, we are under pressure to expand our capacity to be able to meet the expectations of this industry. People must understand that cash is going nowhere. Indeed for now and for the rest of our life time, cash remains the most important and largest store of value.  What value do you offer banks and how do you help them save cost? The central element of our value proposition is the inherent principle in shared services. This means that if I use the same resources or platform to service multiple clients efficiently, each of the clients spends less and I grow in scale and improve in efficiency continuously. This model is simple and validated by the success of several companies and industries in many parts of the world. There is a recognition that a shared services platform is typically the right model for most industries. Typically, currency operations constitutes between 25 to 40 per cent of the cost of operations for most Nigerian banks depending upon the respective efficiency levels and geographic dispersion. How do we come in to save the banks costs and improve efficiency and safety? Our bullion vans are stationed and operate around clusters, and because we use these same bullion vans to service multiple banks, we are able to service banks that need to evacuate excess cash and those that needs cash quickly and efficiently using technology and advanced operational techniques. Because we are using same vehicle to do this, we are able to render this service cheaper and hopefully, these savings can be passed on to bank customers in the form of reduced interest rate. We also operate 24/7 cycles because that is our core business. This model replicates itself in the case of our cash processing offerings. We use same cash processing infrastructure, operating in a factory-like situation with about three shifts. So, in terms of efficiency, and costs, we save the banks tremendous values because by the time the bank branches open in the morning, the night shift in our facility has finished processing, the CIT team has delivered the cash and the bank branch just operates as if nothing happened. In terms of cost optimisation, because same cash we are processing for all the banks, using same platform, same personnel and technology, it is easy and cheaper for each of them in the short, medium and long term. What each of them pays is only a fraction of what it would cost them to buy those same machines, set them up in their hubs and operate at highly expensive operating costs which unfortunately the banks pass on to customers in the form of high borrowing rates, high transaction charges and bank charges . So, our intervention as a sub-sector of the industry was designed by the CBN to achieve sustainable cost optimisation for banks as well as efficiency improvement all of which the banks are able to pass on to the customers in the form of reduced costs of borrowing and transaction charges.  How can things be improved in the area of cash processing? We are probably servicing about 30 per cent of the available market share. I sympathize with the CBN on this because the capacity constraint exists among licensed CIT and cash processing companies like ourselves. The CBN has a responsibility to maintain an orderly and safe financial system. So, the challenge is for us to ramp up capacity quickly in order to be able to strengthen the regulator’s hands to enforce compliance with the extant policies and guidelines without endangering the stability of the banking system.  What is the medium to long-term vision of ICMS? Our plan is to support the industry growth aspiration of the CBN by solving the problem of cash distribution and cash processing capacity constraint so that ICMS and other licenced operators in the sector can benefit from a more aggressive enforcement of extant policies and guidelines by the CBN. To this end, we plan to have nine additional cash processing centres across Nigeria in the next 12 to 18 months and expand our CIT fleet of armored vehicles substantially. Our ultimate goal is to be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in the medium to long term and we are working hard and actively on these plans at this time. We understand the business, we are the only licensed operator that attracted a foreign joint venture partner in this sub sector and the partnership with the foreign company earned us the undisputed knowledge leaders in the Nigeria market and we still have that technical partnership. We see the kind of value they are adding to the financial ecosystem in South Africa. That is exactly what we aspire to replicate in Nigeria. That is what is driving our expansion plan.