Nigeria has never been in short supply of talented minds who carve out their own niche to make impact in the society. One of such people is, Mr. Ayokunle Ayoko. Born (July 12,1982) in Ondo State Nigeria, Ayoko had his Secondary education at Amuwo Odofin Secondary School from 1992 – 1995, Sari Iganmu Secondary School from 1995-1997. In 1998, he proceeded to University of Ibadan where he completed bagged a Second Class Upper Degree in Law. He began his career in 2007 as Counsel at Synergy Attorneys. Since then, his career has hovered around litigation management, corporate governance, negotiation, human capital management, sports law, corporate secretarial, corporate strategy, business and legal advisory. He has also served as Company Secretary to FBN Insurance Limited, FBN General insurance Limited (both subsidiaries of FBN Holdings Plc and Sanlam, South Africa) and FBN Insurance Brokers Limited, prior to joining Berger Paints Nigeria Plc in 2018 as Company Secretary/Legal Adviser. Describing his present role at Berger Paints Nigeria Plc, and how he has helped to repositioned the organization as one of the leaders in the Coating and Allied Industry in Nigeria, he said “At both the 59th and 60th Annual General Meetings (AGM) of Berger Paints Nigeria Plc held in 2019 and 2020 respectively, I was commended by several shareholders for accessibility to the secretariat and for running an efficient secretariat. At the 2019 AGM, the Board had also commended me for my role in the improved year-end financial results and transformation initiatives. I find both events special as the 2019 AGM was the first AGM of a Public Limited Company I was overseeing as the head of the Secretariat even if I had previously assisted to organize a lot in the past. Obviously I was nervous and worried something may go wrong. To avoid this, I went to extreme lengths to ensure all preparations were covered. It eventually turned out to be a huge success with commendations coming in from all quarters – shareholders, Directors past and present, regulators and advisers.” On a special occasion that shaped his life, Mr. Ayokunle who is regularly consulted as resource to top tier international research and consulting firms, he narrated his experience: I had been contacted by a firm based in Dubai to act as a resource person for an international advisory firm who was acting on behalf of a group of investment firms interested in penetrating the Nigerian market. I did not take this serious until the name of the advisory firm was revealed to me. The firm is arguably the biggest advisory firm in the world which I am unable to disclose due to confidentiality reasons. This engagement helped shaped my personal perception of my abilities and expertise – of course, I was well rewarded for the engagement. I have since done a couple more after that. I have also since move on to facilitate trainings for directors and corporate counsels on corporate governance, corporate law and corporate strategy. This engagement, the first of many subsequently, was particularly special for me then as it was a watershed moment which gave me the feeling of stepping up to the ‘big league” and an awareness of my potentials as a thought leader, he said. He was among the recipient of the “40 under 40” Award; at the 2019 edition of the Esq Nigerian Legal Awards, an award given to rising stars and lawyers identified to likely shape the future of the Nigerian legal profession.