Two recent court pronouncements have shown how the wheel of justice can be unnecessarily delayed and even truncated in Nigeria. Both cases involve two politically exposed persons (PEPs), both of who have been lawmakers in the National Assembly. Both also had their unsavoury actions captured on camera and elicited the anger and consternation of the public. The first case was that of Farouk Lawan. The four-term member of the House of Representatives who represented Bagwai/Shanono Federal Constituency of Kano State between 1999 and 2015, in the case marked FCT/HR/CR/76/13, was alleged to have demanded $3 million bribe from the chairman/CEO of Zenon Petroleum and Gas Ltd, Femi Otedola. A ranking and one of the most recognisable faces in the lower chamber, Lawan was the chairman of the adhoc House Committee probing the fuel subsidy scandal after nationwide protests in 2011 forced the lawmakers to investigate the claims that some individuals and oil companies ripped off the country in the matter of fuel supply. During the probe, Mr Lawan was implicated in a bribery scandal.  He was caught on camera negotiating and collecting $620,000 from oil tycoon Femi Otedola to expunge the names of his companies from the list of those indicted in the subsidy scam. According to reports that  later emerged,  the sum was a fraction of $3million the businessman was to pay to Lawan and his cohorts. That was in June 2012.  Lawan was subsequently investigated and charged to court for bribery and extortion.  Sadly, eight years on, the matter is neither here nor there. Last week,  the Court of Appeal  in Abuja dismissed Lawan’s application to terminate the charges filed against him by the federal government. The ruling upheld the decision of Justice  Angela Otaluka of an Abuja High Court that Lawan indeed had a case to answer concerning the charges against him. In the second case, a first term senator, Ishaku Elisha Abbo, who represents Adamawa North in the upper chamber, was caught on camera in  sex toy shop physically and repeatedly abusing one Ms Warmate whose offence, from the footage, was that she attempted to pacify the senator who was angrily rebuking her colleague. The footage caused quite a stir in the public space and the man himself publicly admitted his actions and tendered a public apology to his victims. Subsequently, the police took up the matter to investigate and charge the Adamawa senator with  assault among others. To every onlooker, it was an open and shut case: the evidence was there, the witnesses were ready to testify, and the accused had publicly admitted and even apologised. On paper, it was the easiest case to get a conviction for the victim. But that is not the case. Last week, the case against Senator Abbo was struck out for lack of diligent prosecution by a chief magistrate’s court in Zuba, Abuja. This is despite the testimony  of the victim,  Ms Warmate, and the police investigator, Mary Daniel. Simply put, the law officers hired and paid with taxpayers’ money failed, or deliberately refused, to make the accused pay for his crime in the face of glaring evidence. As a newspaper, we are appalled at the way the two cases have been handled by those in charge.  After eight years, how can the Farouk Lawan case be still languishing at the stage of whether he has a case to answer or not.  With this ruling, assuming he does not appeal it (if he can), he will now begin his defence for the first time for an offence he supposedly committed in 2012! That’s not good enough. And for Senator Abbo, the magistrate, Ilelah ruled that the police failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the senator assaulted Ms Warmate on May 11, 2019, barely a month after he came to the Senate. The question is, what did the prosecutor put before the magistrate to make him come to such a decision? Is it negligence of duty, lack of capacity or a deliberate ploy to let the man off the hook? Whatever it is, it doesn’t  sound good. We are compelled to call upon the chief law officer in Nigeria, the attorney general of the federation and minister of justice, Malam Shehu Malami, to institute a review of these cases and the individuals involved so as to ensure that justice is not only served, but appear to have been served. 