An Abuja-based Non Governmental Organisation (NGO), Racheal Udenna
Foundation has distributed food and other relief items to persons with
disabilities in Karamajiji, a disabled colony in Nigeria’s Federal
Capital Territory (FCT). The community shelters many persons with disabilities caused by injury
and leprosy. Mainly through women, 500 households were each given a bag of rice,
cooking oil among other food condiments as part of the NGOs relief
efforts to cushion the economic effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at the residence of the Chief of Karamajiji “disabled community”, Suleiman Katsina Mohammed while on a courtesy call before
distributing the relief items, the founder of the NGO, Racheal Udenna
said the food relief items was to cushion the effect of COVID-19
pandemic on households in the community, particularly because many are
poor and disabled. She noted: “The Racheal Udenna Foundation which I established is very
passionate about women, especially these women with disabilities
because of the challenges they face on daily basis. They need our help
and support “Going by World Bank estimates, Persons With Disabilities make up
around 15% of the country’s population and they represent one of the
most vulnerable groups in our communities. So in difficult times like
we face today, priority attention must be paid to them. “In the coming weeks we plan to replicate the distribution of the
relief items to other communities in Abuja and accross the country. We
are partnering other NGOs, philantrophic organisations, faith based
organisations and well-meaning Nigerians to bring much needed succour
to poor and vulnerable communities and households. “With the outbreak of the coronavirus, means of economic livelihoods
are changing and we must begin to equip women and young girls with
skills to help then create sustainable means of livelihood to survive. “It is in our collective interest if women in Nigeria become
economically empowered and contribute to the development of the
country. This can be achieved through proper acquisition of skills
which is at the forefront of the empowerment activities of the Rachael
Udenna Foundation.