As part of measures adopted to consolidate the war against insecurity in the country, the federal government yesterday approved N13.3billion for the take-off of community policing initiative across the country. Accordingly, the National Economic Council (NEC) at its virtual meeting chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo resolved that chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, with two other governors, meet with the secretary to the government of the federation, the minister of Finance and the Inspector General of Police to coordinate the proper utilization of the funding of the initiative. NEC’s ad-hoc committee on security and policing chaired by Fayemi had made a presentation on its assignment to the council, noting that engagement with key stakeholders on the operationalization of community policing in the country was ongoing. NEC deliberated extensively on the persistent security situation in the country, especially the activities of Boko Haram insurgents in the North East, which it said has remained a delicate challenge. Governor Fayemi to the council that the committee’s work was ongoing with key stakeholders. He said the committee would be meeting further as the need arises to update the council on the progress being made to address insecurity and criminality in the country. Vice President Osinbajo told the council that President Buhari has approved the sum of N13.3billion for the takeoff of community policing in the country. He said a small team comprising of the NGF chairman, two governors, secretary to the government of the federation, Finance minister and the Inspector General of Police should meet to ensure that the fund is well utilized and report back to council. The National Security Adviser (NSA), Babagana Monguno, made a presentation on the security situation in the country. NEC also received recommendations from the Adhoc committee, including that states and the FCT should look for ways of upscaling communication at the grass-roots level on non-compliance to non-pharmaceutical interventions. Other recommendations include, “The need for states and FCT to explore the suggested use of local networks and traditional institutions such as Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) to re-orientate the people at the grassroots who had continuously lived in denial of the COVID-19 pandemic by displaying nonchalant attitude towards all the laid down protocols. “States and FCT should engage the services of the respected community influencers such as the heads of “Area Boys”, market women, and villagers, in disseminating the same message to the grass root using different modes/media that are common to such people and could easily attract their attention”, a statement by media aide to the vice president noted. Akande also noted that the minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning reported to Council that the under listed accounts as of 18 August 2020 were as follows: “Excess Crude Account (ECA)
Balance – $72,408,119.44; Stabilization Fund Account
Balance – N44,207,377,110.34 and Natural Resources Development Fund Account
Balance – N144, 047, 195, 020.54. Akande further noted that council received a presentation from the minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, on flood disaster risk management in Nigeria for this year. According to the presentation, Global data indicates that in the last decades, natural hazards occurred more frequently than in the past and were more destructive. Weather related hazards continue to increase from an annual average of 200 per year between 1993-1997, to 331 per year between 1996-2002. She said study already revealed that 25 per cent of the world’s landmass and nearly 75 per cent of its population was at risk According to the Post Disaster Needs Assessment (PDNA) conducted in Nigeria in 2012, flooding is considered the most common and recurring disaster in Nigeria by the National Emergency Management Agency, a trend likely to continue. The minister urged states to encourage relevant Federal Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs) to take necessary actions in support of the process NEC urged states to take proactive and necessary mitigative measures in addressing the envisaged 2020 flood disaster even in the midst of COVID 19 pandemic. Troops Kill 40 Criminals, Arrest 12, Destroy 12 Bandits’ Camps Troops deployed for various operations across the country neutralised 40 criminals, arrested 12 and destroyed 12 armed bandits’ camps in the last one week, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said yesterday. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, while briefing journalists on the update on military operations from August 13 to 19, 2020, restated the military’s resolve to support the Borno State government resettlement programme for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). He said the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole in the week under review killed 25 Boko Haram terrorists and ISWAP fighters in air and land operations, destroying terrorists’ structures and recovering three AK47 rifles, one IED, one motorcycle, 36 hand grenades and 8 rounds of 7.62mm special. According to Enenche, the results showed that troops of the Armed Forces of Nigeria are resolute in their endeavor to end the BHT/ISWAP menace in the North East. He disclosed that troops deployed for Operation SAHEL SANITY in the North-West destroyed 12 bandits camps at Yobe Baranda in Batsari local government area of Katsina State and arrested three suspected bandits suppliers all foreigners in Sokoto State during clearance operations. Noting that troops also neutralised 14 armed bandits and recovered 6 AK 47 rifles, three AK 47 magazines and 2m415 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition, he said, “These successes recorded within the period are evident of the troop’s determination, resilience and commitment to end the security challenges bedeviling the North West zone. “Farming, social and economic activities are once again flourishing in the North West zone. Interestingly, a total of 14 bandits were killed from this zone of the country for the period reviewed”. In the South-South zone, he said troops of Operation DELTA SAFE deactivated two illegal refining sites and marked another for swamp buggy operation. He said one of the sites had a reservoir laden with an estimated 943.47 barrels of product suspected to be crude oil, even as he noted that the second site had 2 metal reservoirs laden with an estimated 150,000 litres of illegally refined AGO. Enenche added that the troops also intercepted and impounded a large wooden boat laden with about 132,000 litres of products suspected to be illegally refined AGO. The coordinator said the troops revisited an earlier deactivated Illegal refining site which has been reactivated with 6 ovens, 7 surface metal storage tanks and 3 dugout pits cumulatively laden with about 120,000 litres of product suspected to be illegally refined AGO and 566.08 barrels of product suspected to be stolen crude oil. He said the storage facilities and product were dismantled while the site was earmarked for swamp buggy operation. Gen Enenche revealed that during clearance operations troops of Operation Safe Haven, Thunder-Strike and Whirl Stroke in the North-Central arrested 9 armed robbery suspects and killed one militia kingpin. He said the suspects are being profiled and will be handed over to the Nigerian Police Force for prosecution. The troops, he added, also killed several members of Ansaru Terrorist sect in Kuduru Forest in Kaduna State during air raids conducted by the air component. He listed the items recovered from them to include a red Vectra car with registration number PLATEAU BF-335-JJN, a service pistol, charms and GSM handsets,one AK 47 rifle and 17 rounds of 7.62mm special ammunition. The military high command commended troops of the Armed Forces and personnel of other security agencies involved in various operations across the country for their steadfastness, doggedness and commitment. While calling for support, Enenche reassured members of the general public that the Nigerian military will continue to tackle the security challenges to ensure that normalcy is attained in all the geo political zones of the Country. “However their support is highly solicited in the area of providing credible information to assist out operations”, he said. 3 Soldiers, 8 Boko Haram Members Killed In Kukawa Attack Meanwhile, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has said 3 soldiers were killed while eight Boko Haram terrorists and ISWAP fighters died in the futile attack on troops’ location in Kukawa community. The coordinator of defence media operations, Major General John Enenche, in a statement confirmed that the terrorists on Tuesday attacked troops’ location in Kukawa town in Borno State, adding that the attack was vehemently thwarted. He said during the encounter, eight Boko Haram members were neutralized and unconfirmed number escaped with gun shots wounds. He however regretted that three soldiers who were fatally wounded later died at the military medical reception station at kukawa military location. The coordinator added that two other soldiers who sustained injuries were currently receiving treatment at the military medical station. He recalled that on July 29, 2020, the governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, flagged off the re-opening of Munguno-Cross Kauwa-Kukawa Road followed almost immediately with the resettlement of some of the displaced people from Kukawa and life was already picking up in the town. He said, “The attack by the terrorists was therefore a deliberate attempt to reverse the milestone achievements recorded regarding IDPs in the areas of; peace building, reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement efforts by the government”. While assuring the general public of the military’s resolve to tackle threats, he said the situation in Kukawa was now calm with troops in full control. He added that there was no going back in the rebuilding and resettlement efforts for the displaced people. Enenche said the futile attempt by the terrorists to thwart the resettlement will only motivate the gallant troops for more decisive action. He urged the people of Kukawa community go about their normal lawful businesses without any hindrance and always avail the troops and other security agencies with credible information about the terrorists and any suspicious persons accordingly. 2nd Lead COVID-19: Nigeria Exceeds 50,000 Mark, Names 20 LGAs As Hotspots By Jonathan Nda-Isaiah and Ejike Ejike, Abuja The federal government revealed yesterday that 20 local
government areas were not hotspots for COVID-19, saying the youths in the country must join in the fight against the deadly virus. Chairman of the presidential task force on COVID-19 and secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who gave the hint at the daily briefing of the PTF in Abuja did not name the local government areas. He said, “In the last two days, the World Health
Organisation (WHO) had issued warnings on Vaccine Nationalism and that young people are aiding the spread of the virus. The latter is more germane for us as Nigerians with our over 80 percent youthful population and should give us more cause to be on our guard. “It would border on extreme selfishness for our youths to believe that since they are asymptomatic carriers they can carry on with life as they please. More so that being asymptomatic does not guarantee immunity forever. The PTF is, however, encouraged by the fact that majority of our youths are in the vanguard of this fight and still call on the few non-conforming ones to join. “This call becomes more imperative when we realise that from an initial ten hotspot Local Government Areas in the country, we moved to 16 and now have 20 of such, indicating spread to other areas. “More worrisome is the fact that the initial hotspot areas were easily accessible to medical support. Albeit, the new ones are areas more removed from such support. Furthermore, the recent case of infection amongst some students sitting for the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations calls for more vigilance by the education sector and all of us.” The PTF chairman also revealed that Nigeria infrastructure can take 15, 000 COVID-19 testing daily. Calling on Nigerians to get tested frequently, the SGF said, “So far, our National Response has shown that Nigeria is following the science through effective case management but need to improve our testing. “Our testing infrastructure has been increased to undertake up to 15,000 tests per day but we are currently testing between 3,000 to 6,000 daily due mainly to people still not subjecting themselves for testing. I, therefore, want to seize this opportunity to enjoin Nigerians to get tested. “The PTF continues to analyse and rely on data to forestall any sign of upsurge and adapting best global practices to sustain successes. That Nigeria, along with South Africa, Kenya, Ghana and Algeria contributed to the recorded lowest weekly coronavirus confirmed cases is a testament of our successes. “The challenge, therefore, remains for us to improve on the path of driving the pandemic out of Nigeria so that we can go back to our normal lives.” Gombe Molecular Lab Begins Testing For COVID-19 Meanwhile, the Gombe State Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory located at the public health laboratory complex, Specialist Hospital, Gombe, has commenced operations, testing about 50 samples per day. The state commissioner for Health, Dr Ahmed Mohammed Gana, said in due course the testing will increase to 120 per day. He noted that so far about 16 positive cases were recorded from the lab. Gana said, “We are confident that with what we have on ground, we can run 150 samples per day. We are proposing running 2 shifts per day. “COVID-19 is real and we are yet to reach the peak of the
Pandemic .The only way to combat this Infection is through prevention before we have a vaccine. “We must measure the burden of COVID-19 in the state and we can do that by testing. The public is really cooperating now, the drive will be sustained “. Nigeria Will Apply Principle Of Reciprocity On International Flight – Sirika Meanwhile, as Nigeria prepares to resume international flights, the minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika has revealed that the country will apply the principle of reciprocity. Speaking at the daily briefing of the presidential task force on COVID-19, the minister, who was represented by the director general of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, Captain Musa Nuhu, explained that this principle means all countries that have banned flights from Nigeria, will also have planes from their countries, banned from entry into Nigeria. Some of the countries which have already banned flights from Nigeria are in the European Union (EU) as the EU included Nigeria on the banned countries on the first of July, 2020 when they opened their airspace. He explained that meetings have already been communicated with the international flights where these decisions have been revealed to them. On the preparation for the flights resumption, the minister
said, “We are almost there. Just a few things to be done but we will be ready in the coming days. By Monday, we will have comprehensive details for the resumption.” The aviation minister also noted that about 1280 passengers will be allowed on a daily basis in Abuja and Lagos airports, which have been billed to commence first.