…WHO, UNICEF Congratulate Nigeria, call for strengthening of routine immunisation With no cases of the wild poliovirus reported in the African Region for four years, the region has been certified wild poliovirus free, the African Regional Certification Commission for Polio eradication (ARCC), has said. ARCC Chairperson, Prof. Rose Fomban Leke, said that the ARCC’s decision came after an exhaustive, decades-long process of documentation and analysis of polio surveillance, immunisation and laboratory capacity of the region’s 47 member states, which included conducting field verification visits to each country. In 1996, African Heads of State committed to eradicate polio during the Thirty-Second Ordinary Session of the Organization of African Unity in Yaoundé, Cameroon. At the time, polio was paralysing an estimated 75,000 children, annually, on the African continent. The last case of wild poliovirus in the region was detected in 2016 in Nigeria. Since 1996, polio eradication efforts have prevented up to 1.8 million children from crippling life-long paralysis and saved approximately 180 000 lives, said ARCC. WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti,  said “This is a momentous milestone for Africa. Now future generations of African children can live free of wild polio. This historic achievement was only possible thanks to the leadership and commitment of governments, communities, global polio eradication partners and philanthropists. I pay special tribute to the frontline health workers and vaccinators, some of whom lost their lives, for this noble cause. “However, we must stay vigilant and keep up vaccination rates to avert a resurgence of the wild poliovirus and address the continued threat of the vaccine-derived polio.” While the eradication of wild poliovirus from the WHO African Region is a major achievement, 16 countries in the region are currently experiencing cVDPV2 outbreaks, which can occur in under-immunised communities. “Africa has demonstrated that despite weak health systems, significant logistical and operational challenges across the continent, African countries have collaborated very effectively in eradicating wild polio virus,” said Dr Pascal Mkanda, Coordinator of WHO Polio Eradication Programme in the African Region. “With the innovations and expertise that the polio programme has established, I am confident that we can sustain the gains, post-certification, and eliminate cVDPV2,”  she added. “The expertise gained from polio eradication will continue to assist the African region in tackling COVID-19 and other health problems that have plagued the continent for so many years and ultimately move the continent toward universal health coverage. This will be the true legacy of polio eradication in Africa,” said Moeti. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and UNICEF yesterday congratulated Nigeria on being declared free of the wild poliovirus but stressed that achieving this milestone is not the end of the job, saying that all children under five years must continue to be vaccinated against vaccine-preventable diseases. This, the organisations said was critical to significantly reduce avoidable mortality in Nigerian children under 5 years old, keep polio permanently out of the country, and ensure better health and well being for future generations. WHO Nigeria Country Representative, Dr Walter Kazadi Mulumbo, said, “WHO rejoices with the people and government of Nigeria and acknowledges that wild polio-free certification is undoubtedly the greatest public health triumph in the annals of Nigeria and indeed Africa that will bequeath to posterity lessons learnt and best practices for addressing future public health interventions.” Both UN agencies expressed strong appreciation for the role played by all stakeholders, especially the commitment and support of the Nigerian government at all levels, development partners, donors, traditional and community leaders, health workers and caregivers. “This milestone is a clarion call to urgently rededicate resources to stopping the transmission of all types of poliovirus, strengthening routine immunization to sustain the gains achieved – especially in high risk areas and traditional polio sanctuaries – and maintaining high quality surveillance,’’ said Mulumbo. “It is a momentous achievement that calls for celebration. This historic achievement not only signifies the end of the wild poliovirus across the entire African continent, but is also a significant springboard towards attaining global polio eradication, said UNICEF Representative in Nigeria, Peter Hawkins. The UN agencies pledged to  continue to support Nigeria to strengthen its primary healthcare system under the Primary Health Care Under One Roof (PHCUR) policy initiated by the Federal Government, including the goal to have at least one functional primary healthcare centre (PHC) in every ward in Nigeria. 