The Iyase of Udo, His Royal Highness (HRH) Patrick Igbinidu, on Friday, endorsed the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, and his deputy and running mate, Rt. Hon. Comr. Philip Shaibu, for the September 19, 2020 election, promising to mobilise his subjects to ensure the reelection of the governor and his deputy. Receiving the governor, his deputy and other members of the Edo PDP Campaign Council in his palace in Ovia South West Local Government Area, the traditional ruler said Governor Obaseki has done well for Edo people in his first term and will be reelected to continue with his developmental strides in the state. According to the royal father, “We thank you for your sterling performance across Edo State, especially the ongoing revamp of College of Agriculture Iguoriakhi and other laudable projects executed across the length and breadth of Udo Ward. “God and the ancestors have done it. Men, women, the young, the old and the entire kingdom have all agreed on his candidature and as the next governor of Edo State. This is the second time he is coming to seek blessings and prayers to become governor of the state. He came the first time and he became the governor of the state. He is here again. I don’t have anything to say or to add; it’s done; you are there already.” He continued: “The deputy governor, Shaibu is not a Benin man but has joined forces with Obaseki to develop the state. I urge him never to entertain any fears. The ancestors of the land have sent you people here to develop the state, we have no choice but to support you and ensure you win the election. “I have over 70 chiefs and 45 village heads (Odionweres). We all are for Obaseki and will continue to pray for your success in the election. You shall win the September 19, 2020 governorship election in the state. You have developed the state in the past four years and prepared again to continue the development in the next four years; our ancestors shall protect you.”
Senator representing Edo South Senatorial District, Matthew Urhoghide, added: “What is happening in Edo politics can never happen in other areas where we join outsiders to fight our own people. “Adams Oshiomhole was supported by the Edo people and he spent eight years as governor but now he is opposing Obaseki for his second term in office. One man can’t decide for Edo people. Obaseki will be supported to ensure he wins the governorship election in the state.”