The President’s Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) initiative has concluded plans to commence the implementation of the 2nd phase of support for Faith-based organizations response to HIV/AIDS in Nigeria. A total of $4million is being provided by both the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and PEPFAR for this initiative and it going to run for 2 years. The 1st phase, which was the mobilisation and organisation of the Faith-based community was able to achieve the setting up of the National Faith-based working group as well as developed a robust Faith-based HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan 2018-2022. Speaking during the virtual meeting set up by the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) with relevant stakeholders, the director general of NACA, Dr. Gumbo Aliyu, represented by a deputy director in the agency, Dr. Chigozie Ujam, stated that, relevant stakeholders in the initiative include the faith-based leaders of both Islamic and Christian faith. Also included were implementing partners who are going to be involved in the implementation of the already developed strategic plan, taking on different thematic areas of the plan, he said. Dr. Ujam said “the 2nd phase activities are a continuation of the first cycle and they includes; Stigma reduction and human rights, HIV & Gender Based Violence/ Human trafficking in humanitarian and conflict- affected areas, Paediatric HIV, adherence counselling and referral mechanisms, Coordination and capacity strengthening and lastly HIV & COVID-19 risk communication, social mobilization, and psychosocial support, he concluded.” On their part, representatives of the faith-based organisations promised to ensure the goal of the initiative are achieved while assuring that all the mobilised mosques, churches and related organisation across the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) are ready to cooperate with NACA, UNAIDS and PEPFAAR to judiciously put to use the funds that will be disbursed for the various activities as already mentioned by the NACA representative during the meeting. The initiative will be implemented in eight African countries, including Nigeria. Other seven countries are: Cameroon, Coted’ivoire, DRC, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia 