The Senate Committee on Special Duties has called for increased funding of the North East Development Commission (NEDC) and urged the federal government to ensure adequate feeding of the internally displaced persons (IDPs), in the Northeast. The Committee which expressed worry over the pitiable condition of the IDPs throughout the camps visited in Borno State, also called on the federal government and the Nigerian military to expedite action at ending the Boko Haram war for the quick resettlement of the people to their ancestral homes. Speaking at Muna-garage IDPs camp, one of the camps visited, Sen. Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf, Senator representing Taraba central , who is the chairman Senate Committee on Special Duties, said the Committee as part of its oversight function is in Borno to see what the NEDC has done with what was approved for the commission. He said the Committee visited Ngwon in Mafa ,where the NEDC is constructing 1000 housing units, as part of its intervention in the federal government’s 10,000 housing scheme for the resettlement of the IDPs, and inspected all the houses constructed with satisfaction on work done, except for drainage, which the Committee recommended to be constructed around the housing units. ” We were at Muna-garage IDPs camp, we have seen how some areas destroyed by fire was rebuilt. We saw the mountain of human crisis there. We saw the youths, children, pregnant women and lactating mothers, it was really touching and we imagined what the children and women are going through. ” We commend the Governor of Borno for what he has been doing , as well as working in tendon with the NEDC especially, his efforts to ensure that the IDPs return back home to begin their basic source of livelihood, which is farming. ” We saw people saying they are willing to go back home but fear for their lives, considering insecurity in their communities. We visited the food stores of NEDC and NEMA and saw that there is need for more food for the IDPs. When we go back, we will see how to do about more funding for the NEDC ,” Sen. Yusuf said. Also speaking, the Sen. representing Adamawa North senatorial district, Sen. Elisha Abbo, who is a member of the Committee, urged the federal government to channel some of the funding for Northeast towards the feeding of the IDPs in the sub-region. ” I was not only emotionally moved by the plights of the IDPs. Before now, each time I hear officials saying billions of naira has been budgeted for feeding of IDPs, I get angry thinking the funds were too much. “But from what I see today, and giving the large number of people I see here ; poor women and children; I think the IDPs in the Northeast need more than what we have been appropriating for them. “We don’t have any reason building roads or houses in the Northeast when people are dying because of hunger. I am a man of deep conviction; once I am convinced about something, I go all the way to support it. “President Muhammadu Buhari should see this as a matter of urgent priority. If we build roads, reconstruct public infrastructures, and the people who are in the camp are hungry, then we have not achieved anything,” Abbo said.