In order to ensure a hitch free governorship election in Edo State, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC),
yesterday cautioned against violence and votes buying and called
on security agencies and other stakeholders to ensure a crisis free election. The election umpire also assured that it would do all that is necessary to
provide a free, fair and peaceful poll. The National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education
Committee of INEC, Festus Okoye while delivering a keynote address at
a one-day workshop for journalists on election processes and
procedures in Benin City also warned all stakeholders to see the
conduct of the Edo election and that of Ondo State as a national project
that must be executed in strict compliance with all the safety
protocols. While admitting that the Edo and Ondo elections are being conducted in
difficult circumstances, Okoye noted that there is no alternative to
the peaceful conduct of these elections as the alternative will leave
the people of the two states with a constitutional logjam that may be
difficult to resolve. “Political parties and all the critical stakeholders in the electoral
process must see the conduct of these elections as a national project
that must be executed in strict compliance with all the safety
protocols. “There is no alternative to the peaceful conduct of these elections
as the alternative will leave the people of the two states with a
constitutional logjam that may be difficult to resolve. “Political parties must eschew violence. Political parties and their
candidates must eschew the use of intemperate, inflammatory and base
language designed to inflame passions or incite violence. “On our part, we are determined and resolved to proceed with the
conduct of the Edo. All the non sensitive materials have been
delivered and the Commission will ensure that non sensitive materials
arrive and are delivered to all local government areas early enough.” On vote buying, Okoye said, “The responsibility of INEC is to conduct
elections, all stakeholders including security agencies, the political
parties and the media will have to work together to check this. “In doing so, the Commission will not compromise the safety and
welfare of its staff, ad-hoc staff as well as the voters. We will work
closely with the security agencies to arrest threats and degrade acts
of violence.” Earlier in his welcome address, Edo State Resident Electoral
Commissioner, Johnson Alalibo, noted that the outbreak of the COVID-19
pandemic has changed the narrative on the processes and procedures of
conducting the election. “As we are all aware the September 19 governorship election is going
to be the first election to be conducted under the COVID-19 pandemic.
Therefore it has become imperative for journalists to be conversant
with the new development with the electoral process resulting from the
outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he added. In his remarks, the chairman of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ),
Sir Roland Osakue, urged INEC to be apolitical in the election. Represented by the secretary of the Council, Titus Akhigbe, Osakue
said the advice became imperative in view of signs of violence being
exhibited by the politicians.