The President National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Amb. Sukubo Sara-Igbe Sukubo has said he is resolute and firm in the quest for justice on the leadership crisis bedevilling the apex Youth body. Sukubo was reacting to the ruling of a High Court of Nasarawa State which restored the judgment nullifying the congress of NYCN. Justice Abdullahi Ozegya had reversed the order made by the court on January 23, 2020, which set aside an earlier consent judgment of December 11, 2019, on the grounds that the order was not properly served. The court had, in the December 11, 2019 consent judgment by Justice Offo Haruna in suit No: NSD/MG104/18, voided the congresses held by a faction of the NYCN in Abuja, Gombe and Port-Harcourt for having been conducted in violation of a subsisting court order. However, two of the parties to the consent judgment – Comrades Murtala Garba and Abdulrahman Agboola returned to the court and obtained the January 23, 2020 order, which set aside consent judgment. However, NYCN President, Amb. Sukubo Sara-Igbe Sukubo, in a statement he personally signed Friday, said there is no cause for alarm, adding that he remains the President as he is not a party to suit No. NSD/MSG104/2018. He explained that “suit No. NSD/MSG104/2018 matter came up today being the 21st day of August 2020 for the ruling of the plaintiff/applicant’s motion seeking to set aside the order (which set aside consent judgment)of the court delivered on the 23rd day of January 2020 on grounds of none service, lack of fair hearing and jurisdiction. In its wisdom ” the trial court agreed with the plaintiff/applicant and set aside the said order dated 23rd January 2020. He continued “It is worthy to state that prior to today’s proceedings, we changed our legal team who had since applied for records of proceedings and other necessary documents to enable them to take the next appropriate step, we however remain resolute and firm in our quest for justice. “This is just the beginning as there are parties that are seeking to be joined in the proceedings for effective determination. The matter is adjourned to 10th day of November 2020. “The interim order procured at the federal high court lasts only for 14 days, there are no specific orders stopping me from parading myself as President NYCN”. He added that ” there is no judgment yet. So I urge the entire Nigeria Youth not to be distracted. NYCN under my leadership will lawfully continue to defend the mandate given to us. We shall do our best to liberate Nigeria Youth and protect their interest”.