The Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Hon. Agboola Ajayi on Friday said the call of the teeming mass of the State stands with a purposeful the foundation of his aspiration to the office of Governor of the State. Speaking in Akure, the state capital, Agboola said he joined the ZLP to put practical effect to the expectations of the people who obviously are Not enamored by the options offered by the two major parties. Agboola who said the party primaries of the two major parties and the success of subterfuge over and above Democratic norms made his throwing his hat into the ring on the more credible Zenith Labour Party platform. Speaking at a well-attended, but COVID 19 compliant event at the ZLP State Secretariat, Agboola said: “It is obvious that the affirmation of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu SAN as the candidate of the APC coupled with the seeming failure of the PDP to produce a dependable and formidable alternative has dampened the democratic enthusiasm and morale of the people. To stir hope and re-channel the energy of the progressive electorates, I am teaming up with members of the ZLP, a chunk of most of the other members, and my teeming allies from both the PDP and APC.” Agboola, it will be recalled, moved from the APC through the PDP before moving to the ZLP. The Deputy Governor said, “He was humbled by calls, advice, and demands from critical stakeholders, supporters and most importantly, the generality of the people to consider himself as the arrowhead of a new dependable, credible and vibrant alternative alliance for a desirable leadership for the state.” He said after critically analyzing the terrain, he decided to found the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) as the dependable platform to rescue Ondo State from a lac, luster, nepotistic and clannish, leadership. “Today, I formally join the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), to achieve the noble cause of giving Ondo State a new with leadership. I call on all my teeming supporters, friends, followers, and the admirers of good governance to show critical and dedication by mobilizing and campaigning for the Zenith Labour Party in their various wards across the state. “The collective yearnings of the good people of Ondo State remain the impetus for the bid to wrestle the governance of the state from a political demagogue,” he concluded. He was received by the State Chairman of the ZLP, Hon Joseph Akinlaja, and other leaders drawn from across the State.