Gombe State governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has granted 230 hectares of land near Gombe airport along Gombe-Bauchi road for the establishment of Nigerian Airforce Forward Operational Base, FOB in Gombe state to facilitate swifter response in its counter insurgency operations in the North East. The governor has also approved a space at the Gombe airport for the smooth take off of a full fledged  base that will enhance NAF’s response capability in combating insurgency and other security threats. Governor Yahaya made this known when he received a delegation of Senior officers from the Headquarters of the Nigerian Airforce, led by Air  Vice Marshal Idi Lubo who were in the State at the instance of Chief of the Air staff, Air Marshal Sadiq Baba Abubakar. The governor said the establishment of the NAF FOB in Gombe State, being the centre of the troubled North East will boost security in the State and stability in the region as a whole. He thanked the Chief of the Air staff for considering Gombe to host the NAF FOB,  describing the move as strategic in view of the  centrality of Gombe in the North East sub-region and the peaceful atmosphere in the state. “You all know that we existed as one in the North Eastern days and we share boundaries with all the five other states in the region- Borno, Yobe, Adamawa, Bauchi and Taraba states-  so this centrality places us at an advantage”. He however noted that such an advantage comes with added responsibility of having to host internally displaced persons from the neighbouring states due to the Boko Haram insurgency. He said the influx of the IDPs into the State equally comes with the challenge of living with people whose real identity cannot be substantiated, adding that lack of organisational capacity and limited resources further leaves the State from achieving much in terms of profiling. The Governor described Gombe as a peaceful state owing to the fact that the people have accepted and agreed to live in peace with one another regardless of tribal or religious differences. Governor Yahaya said Gombe is pleased to host individuals who seek refuge in the State but was quick to canvass for more support from Federal Agencies to address some of the inherent challenges,  describing the establishment of the FOB as a step in that direction. The governor said his administration will continue to run an open door policy and a relationship that is complimentary in nature. A clear example of such complimentary relationship the Governor said, was the ceding of the NYSC orientation camp  built by the State Government some 13 years ago but now being used by the Federal government as a de-radicalization and rehabilitation centre for repentant Boko Haram. Earlier, the leader of the delegation,  Air Vice Marshal Idi Lubo said the choice  of Gombe as a NAF FOB was informed by its strategic location and availability of a suitable airport. He said the FOB, when established, will boost security and ensure stability in the North East sub-region. “The NAF FOB will facilitate the country’s overall efforts to address the menace of the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East in general and enhance security in Gombe state in particular”. AVM Lubo said going through the field in Borno State he understood that the people of the area are left behind in terms of physical and human capital development,  saying there is a strong correlation between under development and conflict of whatever sort. He however observed that Gombe is lucky to have an administration that is keen and passionate for the socio-economic development of its people. Highlight of the visit was the presentation of the title document of the 230 hectares of land allocated by the Governor for the project. 