As the world continues to grapple with the realities of living with COVID­­-19 pandemic, the Open Society Initiative of West Africa (OSIWA) has donated a fully equipped ambulance to the Yobe state government to aid a dignified pick up and protection of patients who have tested positive to the virus. At the presentation ceremony in Abuja, OSIWA Country Director, Udo Jude Ilo, who was represented by Mrs Catherine Angai, said this was the organization’s way of saying no one can do it alone and that we all need each other. He said the pandemic took the world by surprise adding that this has shown that we must work together to get out of this situation. He said: “For us, we have been emphasizing on inclusiveness in response to COVID -19 which has taken every body by surprise and we realize, that nobody can do it alone, the government cannot do it alone, citizens cannot do it alone, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) cannot do it alone. We need each other at this very critical time. “It just shows the kind of partnership that we developed. We developed partnership with CSOs, we developed partnership with government institutions and we also developed partnership with
government itself. So for us, it is significant in terms of how we are reaching out, in terms of how we are showing that we are all in this together, in terms of solidarity and in terms of togetherness as it stands. “So we will continue this support and like I said, we can’t do it alone, we need each other.” Iloh further urged other organisations, working in the space, donor organisations, funding organisations, development partners to all come in and provide their own support in the ways they can in the fight
against COVID -19. In his response, the governor of Yobe state, Mai Mala Buni, who was represented by the deputy governor, Hon Idi Gubana, while receiving the keys to the ambulance thanked OSIWA for the kind gesture noting that this will greatly assist the state in collecting of samples through the 17 local government areas across the state. He said the ambulance came at the right time that the Nigerian Centre for Disease is urging for more testing capacity in the country so we may know our status. “We assure you that we use this ambulance judiciously in the prevention and control of COVID -19 in Yobe state” he noted. 