Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo state, on Monday, disclosed that his administration has distributed palliatives to no fewer than 200,000 households since the outbreak of the Coronavirus in the state. Akeredolu said, apart from the vulnerable that could relatively move around, his administration has also reached out to those in the hospitals; the sick, pregnant, and women and nursing mothers, to minimize the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the people. Speaking at the flag-off ceremony of CA-COVID 19 Palliative Items distribution in Akure, the state capital on Monday, Akeredolu noted that the outbreak of the disease has adversely affected both the lives and means of livelihood of our people. According to him, “To us, it can be likened to a state of warfare.  We are fighting an invisible enemy. Many are carrying the “bullet wound” without knowing and many are already sent to early graves and many more might still go unless we brace up and do what is right as individuals and communities.” While saying his administration is doing the best possible within the available resources to ameliorate the effects of this pandemic on the people, the governor maintained that part of his mitigation strategies is the provision of food items as palliatives to the people. Akeredolu who further disclosed that the commodities coalition donated to the State will be able to take care of at least 50,000 households across the nook and cranny of the State, noted that the delay in the flag-off ceremony was occasioned by the need for the exercise to be carried out in all the states of the Federation at about the same time. The governor, however, assured that he will ensure a fair and equitable distribution of the items provided. Akeredolu said, “Let me specially thank the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CA-COVID), a Non-Governmental Organisation under the leadership of Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Mr. Godwin Emefiele, the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria in their collaboration with the Federal Government of Nigeria in ameliorating the effect of the pandemic on the people. “This is not just for us, but for the good people of Ondo State.  What we have achieved in the past three years could only be possible with God’s intervention and your support. “We have been in the office for about 42 months and have paid salaries and allowances for 48 months. The six months extra being the carry-over debt from the immediate past administration, despite our lean purse since we took over. “We have been forced by COVID-19 outbreak to review downward our budget just like every other State and the Federal Government, but nevertheless God Almighty has made it possible for us to continue to pay salaries and the implementation of our various shining across the State. “Let us not be in doubt that a new foundation has shone for a preferred Ondo State, where the sun shining brightly.”