The National Consultative Front (NCF) said the invitation of its leaders by the Department of State Service (DSS) is aimed at muzzling out positive and constructive criticism of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. NCF stated this in a press release signed by its head, Public Affairs Bureau of the group Dr. Tanko Yunusa while reacting to comments by the presidency over DSS invitation of its leader and former Speaker, Ghali Na’aba over comments he made during a TV programme. The group while condemning the continuous invitation of the leaders of including former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Mailafia Obadiah, alleged that the invitation was to “muzzle out positive and constructive criticism of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s misdemeanor and incompetent rule, and to also turn the country into a police state,” the statement read. The statement added, “The timing, promptness and alacrity with which the DSS summons for questioning those who disagree or criticize the misdemeanor, incompetence and misrule of the Buhari Government like in the case of the Chairman and  Frontline Member of the newly launched NCFront, Former Speaker, Ghali Umar Na’aba and Former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank, Dr Mailafia Obadiah respectively betrays the sinister and dastardly motive of the Buhari regime to silence responsible criticism and opposition at all cost and a desperate and panicky move to turn the country into a police state.” They questioned the timing of DSS’ invitation of Na’aba, noting that they picked him because he has become a major voice for a major alternative political movement. The group while vowing to stand by the former speaker, added that Na’aba read the statement of the group and did not give his personal speech. “Why is the state more obsessed about hate speech than containing and curtailing her own obvious hate actions and reckless impunity all over the Nigerian space. For the avoidance of doubt, Rt Hon Ghali Umar Na’aba only read the official statement of the NCFront on the deplorable and worrisome state of Nigeria and not his personal speech. So we all stand by him as a popular alternative to the Buhari regime. “When people’s rights, and freedom of speech is being stylishly stifled under the guise of hate speech and sedition, there is obviously a big trouble for the people,” the statement added.