The National Examination Council (NECO)  has revealed plans to adopt new measures to check examination malpractices by installing  CCTV special  cameras  in all  its examination centres, even as the staff  would sign oath of allegiance. The exam body made the revelation as it unveiled  the examinations’ timetable yesterday. The registrar of the council, Professor Godswill Obioma who unveiled  the  timetable and guidelines for the conduct of the 2020 NECO examinations, said the plan was to install camera   in all  the examination centres and custodian points for monitoring. In addition,  he said all  officials will sign oath of allegiance before taking up any role in the examination while  customised answer booklets have also been introduced for the essay components of the examination. The registrar  said the council will explore the possibility of  the installation and use of special CCTV cameras in  all  examinations centres and custodian points. According to him, “In order to ensure that the examinations are conducted in an environment that is safe for candidates and officials as well as other stakeholders, NECO has prepared a manual on guidelines for preparation of schools for conduct of public examinations in the context of COVID-19”. “The guidelines cover roles, responsibilities and expectations of various stakeholders which include school proprietors, school principals and managers, parents and guardians, examination candidates, examination supervisors and invigilators and among others. , examination monitors as well as security officials,” Obioma  added.    On the new timetable for NECO Examination,  he disclosed  that the National Common Entrançe Examination for Junior Secondary School 1 students would  take place on Saturday 17th of October 2020, while the  BECE examination would hold from the 24th of this month to 7th September and  the SSCE would commence on the 5th of October to terminate on 18th November.    He said 80,110 candidates have registered for the Common Entrance Examination, 104,341 for the BECE and 169,144 for the SSCE adding that the closing dates for all the examinations apart from the SSCE would be three days to the days of the examinations.      “Basic Education Certificate Examination (NECO-BECE) will commence on Monday 24th August and end on Monday 7th September 2020. Senior Secondary Certificate Examination (NECO-SSCE) will be between October 5th to November 18th 2020 while National Common Entrance Examination (NECO-NCEE) is scheduled to take place on 17th October 2020. We also schedule BECE (Re-sit) to take place on 11th and 12th November 2020.    “NECO has also prepared comprehensive examination timetables for all these scheduled examinations in harmonization with WAEC and NABTEB. Stakeholders and general public can assess and download the timetable from our website www.neco.gov.ng. We have also made adequate provision for the visually impaired candidates and albino,” the registrar declared.    He added that, “Stakeholders and general public should also take note that Registration for BECE would end three days to the commencement, registration for the NCEE would end a week to the commencement while SSCE registration would also end on 10th September 2020 without room for further extension.”       