The Bishop of the Methodist Arch Diocese of Kano, His Lordship, Rt Rev Ibrahim Chindo, has called on the federal government to show more empathy in addressing the security challenges in the country by taking care of the displaced persons. Chindo, who oversee Methodist Churches in  other states of Katsina, Jigawa, Zamfara, Sokoto, Kebbi, Yobe, Borno and Kano, in a statement, said the insecurity has brought alot of Humanitarian crisis into the country. He called on highly placed government officials especially the state Governors to show more empathy, sincerity, courage and statesmanship in addressing the security challenges. “Reckless and divisive comments against leaders of the Christian faith and Christian dominated communities must stop as they only aggravate the already volatile situation in most communities,” Chindo said while calling on the state governors to show more charisma in handling the crisis. “They must remember that once appointed a leader, one becomes the leader of all both for those who supported them and those that thought otherwise, because the moment two people stand in contest each one most have his followers. But a good leader once he has been chosen, drops his personal interest and picks the interest of all,” Chindo said. The Bishop also call on the international community not to sit idle and watch Nigeria slide further into the dark abyss. “While we appreciate the US military command for the timely warning against the impending evasion by the murderous herdsmen, terrorists and insurgents from other countries to remaining parts of Nigeria, we urge the international community to bring pressure to bear on the Nigerian government to take appropriate measures to stop this impending carnage. “Most importantly, we urge Christians to continue steadfastly and in earnest prayer. God has not and will not forsake us. This is the time to unite beyond denominational boundaries for a house divided against itself cannot stand. However we urge community leaders to organise the people in their respective areas for the purpose of their defending lives and property,” he added. The Bishop said it is unfortunate that these premeditated and targeted attacks have become the norm as governments across all strata but especially the Federal Government have failed to fulfil their basic constitutional mandate of protecting lives and properties of the citizenry. “The discordant tunes from military commanders as well as the distress calls by several fighting troops do not inspire any confidence in the citizens. It is clear to all and sundry that the present security arrangement has failed. We join other well-meaning Nigerians to call for an urgent reorganisation of the security agencies starting with the replacement of the security chiefs in order to inspire their officers and men to do batter with these evil and criminal elements. “I wish to express my profound condolences to all the families who have lost their beloved ones to these orgies of violence. We passionately call on President Muhammadu Buhari to quickly arouse from slumber before the nation sinks to the point of disintegration as Nigerians are increasingly losing faith and hope in our continued survival and existence,” he added.