…It’s Another Bare Face Lies of APC – Shaibu Chairman, Edo State APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, on Tuesday alleged that the party have it on good authority of plot by Edo State Deputy Governor, Phillip Shaibu to stage an attack on himself and blamed the APC Governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Mayaki, in a statement said a source within the camp of the deputy had alerted the APC on the plot said the deputy governor planned to rain bullets on his convoy to give the impression that it was being instigated by APC. According to Mayaki;  “Top sources close to Edo State Deputy Governor, Phillip Shaibu have reported that there is a sinister plot in the works for the deputy governor to stage an attack on himself. This is in a bid for him to appear as the victim of violence and political thuggery, which he plans to blame on the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The source, craving anonymity, said early on Tuesday morning; “I know for sure that Phillip Shaibu, is trying to shoot at his own convoy any moment from now, and thus give the impression that it is being instigated by APC.” Recall that the deputy governor is a known plotter, alongside his principal, and has once mobilised as many as 200 thugs on motorcycle to visit mayhem on destinations he fancies. But in a swift reaction, Edo State Deputy Governor, Rt Hon Comrade Philip Shaibu has said there is no iota of truth in the misleading and misguided information that his convoy is planning to attack itself. The Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the Deputy Governor, Ebomhiana Musa made the clarification today in a press statement. He said the tissue of lies peddled by the faceless organisation would not dissuade Edo people from voting Obaseki/Shaibu ticket for a second term. “The tactless APC propaganda machine has suddenly resorted to bare faced lies, apparently because the party has seen defeat starring it in the face come September 19. We in the PDP will not enter into the mud with them. Rather, we will continue to play clean.” According to him, it was simply not possible for the Deputy Governor to attack its own convoy, noting that the consequences of embarking on such a delicate voyage is better imagined than described. He said: “How does any rational being want to explain that? That you subject the lives of those in your convey to risk of even being killed because you want people to believe they were attacked from outside? This is really unthinkable, unbelievable and wicked lies any reasonable group will ever want to put to public domain. “This simply shows the mindset of the opposition and their reasoning ability. I’m not sure that they know that the Nigerian electorate, even those in the rural areas are too wise and too intelligent to buy the shit they are trying to sell in the name of political propaganda. “We are urging our people to see these lies as a challenge to redouble their support for the Obaseki/Shaibu ticket and of course, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) by ensuring that they pepper the APC with PVC come September 19.” It would be recalled that the Secretary, Alliance for Youth Awareness (AYA), one Odion Idahosa in a statement, alleged that the Deputy Governor’s convoy planned to attack itself and attribute it to the All Progressives Congres (APC). 