Russia claimed yesterday that it had developed the world’s first vaccine offering “sustainable immunity” against the coronavirus, as the pandemic marked another bleak milestone with 20 million infections globally. President Vladimir Putin said that one of his own daughters had received the inoculation, dubbed “Sputnik” after the pioneering 1950s Soviet satellite. Western scientists have previously raised concerns about the speed of development of Russian vaccines, suggesting that researchers might be cutting corners. “I know that it is quite effective, that it gives sustainable immunity,” Putin said of the vaccine developed by the Gamaleya research institute in coordination with Moscow’s defence ministry. Meanwhile, the World Health Organization yesterday warned any approval of the Russian vaccine would require rigorous review of data to show its safety and efficiency. “We are in close contact with the Russian health authorities and discussions are ongoing with respect to possible WHO pre-qualification of the vaccine,” the United Nations health agency’s spokesman Tarik Jasarevic told reporters in Geneva at an online press briefing. “Pre-qualification of any vaccine includes the rigorous review and assessment of all the required safety and efficacy data.”1. Russia hopes to begin production in September and start vaccinating medical staff immediately afterwards. Some 20 foreign countries have pre-ordered over a billion doses according to Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, which helped develop the vaccine. The race for a vaccine heats up as nations across the globe brace for new outbreaks of the disease even as they try to restart economies battered by months of initial lockdowns to curb the spread. An AFP tally from official sources showed that by 1100 GMT yesterday, the number of confirmed infections worldwide passed 20.1 million, having topped 20 million the previous night. Almost 737,000 deaths had been recorded since the virus first emerged in China late last year and spread globally, with the figure expected to surpass 750,000 within days. Also, Russian Health Minister Mikhail Murashko said that clinical trials of the vaccine involving several thousand participants would continue. A WHO overview said 165 candidate vaccines are being worked on around the world, with six reaching Phase 3. But the WHO’s emergencies Director Michael Ryan warned that a vaccine was “only part of the answer,” pointing to polio and measles as diseases with vaccines that have not been fully eradicated. “You’ve got to be able to deliver that vaccine to a population that want and demand to have that vaccine,” he said.  WHO To Review Vaccine Safety Data The World Health Organization said any WHO stamp of approval on a COVID-19 vaccine candidate would require a rigorous safety data review, after Russia announced yesterday it had approved a vaccine. President Vladimir Putin said Russia had become the first country to approve a vaccine offering “sustainable immunity” against the new coronavirus. “We are in close contact with the Russian health authorities and discussions are ongoing with respect to possible WHO pre-qualification of the vaccine,” the United Nations health agency’s spokesman Tarik Jasarevic told reporters in Geneva at an online press briefing. “Pre-qualification of any vaccine includes the rigorous review and assessment of all the required safety and efficacy data.” Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine has been developed by the Gamaleya research institute in coordination with the country’s defence ministry. A total of 165 candidate vaccines are being worked on around the world, according to the latest WHO overview produced on July 31. Of those, 139 are still in pre-clinical evaluation, while the other 26 are in the various phases of being tested on humans, of which six are the furthest ahead, having reached Phase 3 of clinical evaluation. The Gamaleya candidate being produced in Russia, which is among the 26 being tested on humans, is listed as being in Phase 1. Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund which finances the vaccine project, said Phase 3 trials would start on Wednesday, industrial production was expected from September and that 20 countries had pre-ordered more than a billion doses.