The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture (NACCIMA) and the Indonesian Trade Promotion Centre (ITPC) have entered into partnership to strengthen agribusiness between Nigeria and Indonesia. This was made known at the first edition of the Virtual Nigerian-Indonesian Business Forum organised by the NACCIMA in partnership with the Indonesian Trade Promotion Centre (ITPC) in Lagos. The forum which focused on Agribusiness sector brought together over 70 Nigerian and Indonesian companies. Dignitaries present during the forum include; national president of NACCIMA, Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu; the Charge D’affaires of the Nigerian Embassy in Jakartar, Indonesia, Mrs Beatrice Archibong; former Nigerian Ambassador to Indonesia, Ambassador Hakeem Balogun and director-general of NACCIMA, Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni. The Indonesian Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Usra Hendra Harahap, stated that increased partnerships between Nigerian and Indonesian Businesses will serve as a good medium for private sectors in both countries, to acquire appropriate knowledge to harness potential opportunities that exists in both countries. The national president of NACCIMA and chairperson of the Organised Private Sector of Nigeria (OPSN), Hajiya Saratu Iya Aliyu thanked the Indonesian Trade Promotion Centre in Lagos and the team at NACCIMA for successfully organising the virtual business forum despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. She called for closer ties between Indonesia and Nigeria, especially in the area of Agribusiness technology, to ensure that Agricultural production in Nigeria is adequately enhanced for optimal output. Mrs Beatrice Archibong, the Charge D’affaires of the Nigerian Embassy in Jakartar, Indonesia stated that the organising of this business forum by NACCIMA and ITPC is a clear demonstration of goodwill and determination to boost the economy of our countries in spite of the growing pandemic which has negatively impacted global economy.
She expressed the commitment of the Nigerian Embassy in Indonesia to coordinate with relevant stakeholders in Indonesia to make necessary information and guide into the Indonesian market available to potential Nigerian investors. During the business matchmaking session, several Nigerian businesses initiated partnerships such as partnerships on rubber processing in Sapele, Delta state. The Indonesian Trade Promotion Centre in Lagos and NACCIMA agreed on continuous forum for engagement between Indonesian businesses and Nigerian businesses to further strengthen the bilateral relationship between both countries that has existed since the establishment of its diplomatic relations in 1965.