In the good old days, one of my favourite quizzes to prospective employees was this primary school stuff: If you walked into a room full of water with the tap flowing and you saw the bucket, the plastic bowl and the mop floating towards you, what will you do first? Believe it or not, some applicants failed that question woefully. One particular man threw the members of the interview panel into uproarious laughter when he declared that he would call in the cleaners! I find myself asking another variant of that question today as we grapple with the rising wave of insecurity in Nigeria. Tormented as we are by resilient terrorist gangs— whether described as  Boko Haram or bandits or cattle rustlers or foreign gunmen— whose activities have depopulated towns and villages in many parts of the Northeast and Southern Kaduna, what should our primary area of focus be: (a) Prosecuting a scorched earth war against the terrorists until they are routed; (b) Rehabilitating repentant terrorists and re-integrating them into society; (c) Inviting international help with the war; (d) Resettling internally displaced persons until their ancestral homes are cleared of the merchants of death. I submit that what we ought to do is concentrate most of the resources we can muster on the first and the last of the options above. Anything else can come later. Our focus should be on equipping our fighting forces to the hilt and incentivising them with generous allowances as proof of our realisation that they are putting themselves in harm’s way so that the rest of us can be safe. The other area that deserves immediate national attention, of course, is the resettlement of internally displaced persons and provision of minimal infrastructure in the camps to ensure that they can at least live in dignity and eke out some kind of living to augment whatever supplies government is able to provide. According to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre (IDMC), people displaced by Boko Haram in the north-east are spread across 13 states, the vast majority in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe where active conflict is still ongoing. Borno alone accounted for 1.5 million of the 2.6 million IDPs recorded in Nigeria at the end of 2019. Displacement camps do exist, but the majority of IDPs in all affected states stay with family, friends or in host communities. As of the end of 2019, 50.8 million people were displaced due to conflict, violence and disasters worldwide. I salute our fighting forces for their gallantry in the face of the asymmetrical war Boko Haram has foisted on us. The war has now lasted one decade with at least 36,000 dead and there is no end is sight. What bothers me is that Boko Haram is not a regular national army. The terrorists don’t have a military superstructure like Nigeria. They have no navy, no air force. At best, their strength is in their infantrymen. If we haven’t worsted them thus far, perhaps there are things we should have done better. And isn’t there something we can learn from our Chadian brothers who have rid their land of the terrorists? No nation ever has enough resources to tackle all its problems at the same time. That is why nations prioritise. It doesn’t make much sense that we were using scarce resources to deradicalise, rehabilitate and reintegrate former Boko Haram fighters captured in the war while the camps of Internally Displaced Persons suffer neglect. I do appreciate the declaration of the defence headquarters that, “the concept of Operation Safe Corridor was a unique non-kinetic operation aimed at giving hope to ex-combatants, who willingly give up their arms to embrace peace”. The presidency has also explained that the de-radicalisation, rehabilitation and reintegration of violent extremists of the Buhari administration code named “Operation Safe Corridor,” follows an established example from countries with similar experiences, and is supported academically and materially by the European Union and the United Nations. No one will quarrel with reforming a repentant sinner. But in terms of priorities, the bulk of our resources and those of international agencies should first be targeted at arms, ammunition and the welfare of our fighting men and women, while at the same time tackling the logistic nightmare of fending for the 3 million-plus displaced persons scattered over many states of the country. My contention, in other words, is that given a choice between rehabilitating repentant terrorists and catering for the many IDP camps where the level of human misery is better imagined than seen, I will, without question, prioritise the IDP camps. We shouldn’t be putting the cart before the horse while the supposed rider appears befuddled. I have visited a couple of IDP camps in Abuja and even partaken in humanitarian interventions which still leave me with emotional scars right now. At the end of one of my visits to the camp behind Games Village, I reminisced at that time as follows: “… We moved from shack to shack with men and women milling around; women grinding millet; some washing threadbare clothes; kids under a tent learning ABC; residents coming out of the bushes where they had gone to answer nature’s call; young men doing subsistence farming in one section of the bush; boys lounging under a tree within a ‘red light’ district where girls in scanty rags sold their wares; children suckling while their mums lay forlornly on mats spread on the bare floor; pit latrines already filled to the brim because of the high population of users… “One child rolled a small worn-out wheelbarrow tyre towards us and greeted cheerfully. His mum stared with cheerful sadness in front of their shack. Are these people capable of feeling pain anymore? I remembered Ricky Martin’s rumination immediately: “Pain comes, it seduces you, it plays with you, and you identify with it to the point that you begin to believe this is how life is…. “Most of the shacks are constructed with sticks cut from the bush over which jute materials, plastic sheets, blankets or, in few cases corrugated iron sheets, are nailed to give some ‘privacy’. In the midst of all these, children are being born, people are falling ill by the minute without any medical facility whatsoever….” The United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) has revealed that over 3.4 million people have been displaced, including over 2.7 million IDPs in north-eastern Nigeria, over 680,000 IDPs in Cameroon, Chad and Niger and 292,000 refugees in the four countries. As if that situation wasn’t dire enough, there are, additionally, persons displaced by floods and other natural disasters. But by far the ugliest blight to our collective humanity in recent times is the recurring Southern Kaduna killings of yet indeterminate origin. It’s a throw back to primitive ages. What the killers are telling us is that the government does not have a monopoly of violence and that they will visit death upon whomsoever they choose. That cannot be acceptable in civilised society. Any group that visits violence on another under whatever pretext instead of seeking recourse in the laws of the land deserves to be visited with as much vehemence as can be mustered. We can no longer hide behind the finger of “reprisal killings” lest violence become the only nationally intelligible language of social intercourse. If I may adapt the invocation of multi-genre author Aberjhani (The River of Winged Dreams), “In the days when hyenas of hate suckle the babes of men, and jackals of hypocrisy pimp their mothers’ broken hearts, may children not look to demons of ignorance for hope.”