The Rotary Club of Asokoro, District 9125 over the weekend,
distributed food items to 140 families and a generator set to Pasali
II Village of the Kuje Area Council in Abuja. President of the Club, Rotarian Felix Akinseye, while speaking at the
occasion, noted that the decision to distribute the palliatives is
necessary, following the adoption of the community for a project,
needs assessment for potable water and distribution of food items for
the community. “The distribution of the palliatives is important to cushion the
effect of corona virus pandemic on members of the community and the
donation of a brand new generator set is to pump water for the
community so that they will continue to have access to clean and
affordable potable water.” While urging other clubs and the government to identify with
communities that are hard to reach, he said the club also visited
Baduma village in Asokoro during the lockdown and fed 200 families. Also speaking at the event, Past President of the Club, Barr.
Ogechukwu Ochuba, said Rotary Club advocates for sustainable project,
and as such, the donation of a generator set and distribution of
palliative. She however, appeal to government to take interest in the plight of
the people of pasali community by providing electricity for them. The Chief of Pasali 2, Mr. Joseph Makari, expressed gratitude for the
palliatives, particularly the generator to power the borehole for
clean water, which has been lacking in the community for years. Meanwhile, the Chief informed that the community has been in darkness
for over 7 years due to lack of electricity and transformer, adding
that there is also the absence of health care facility and school. He appealed to rotary club and other humanitarian to come to their aid. One of the beneficiaries, Hassana Dakwoyi, appreciated the kind
gesture of rotary club.  “We have been having difficulty in feeding
because of the effect of Covid – 19 but the food that they have
brought will go a long way to cushion the effect.” Food items distributed include, rice, beans, spaghetti, food spices,
tomatoes paste and vegetable oil.