President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Niger State  governor, Sani Bello and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar are  among several Nigerians that saluted former military president, Gen Ibrahim Babangida as he marks his 79th  birthday today. Buhari in a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, said IBB’s services to the country will always be remembered. President Buhari prayed Almighty God to continually strengthen Gen Babangida, grant him good health and longer life. Also, Lawan said the retired Army General and former Nigerian leader can be proud of his contributions to the defence of the territorial integrity, unity, and political and socio-economic development of Nigeria. In a statement by the special adviser (media) to the Senate President, Ola Awoniyi, Lawan noted that, “President Babangida has remained passionate about Nigeria more than two decades after his exit from active public service.” Niger State Governor and Chairman, North Central Governors’ Forum, Abubakar Sani Bello has also described the former Military President, Babangida as a true patriot and nationalist who gave his all to ensure the unity and survival of Nigeria. In a congratulatory message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mrs Mary Noel Berje, the governor said IBB’s doggedness and  resolve in nation-building were crucial to the stability, national and international unity as well as development of the country. “I congratulate you on this special day of commemorating your birth. On a day like this, memories of your courage, invaluable service to  the Nigerian Army in protecting the sovereignty of the country and  your exemplary leadership which have indeed helped as well as  stimulated the younger generations come to mind. “My fervent prayer for you is to continue to get good health and may Almighty Allah also strengthen you and grant you more blessed years to  continue to reap the reward of your hard work,” he said. According to him, the elder statesman’s policies and programmes during his regime as the Military President in the country between 1985 and 1993 still stand the test of time, adding that the celebrant has continued to symbolize Statesmanship, Patriotism, Professionalism, vision and Courage even after active service to the Nation. On his part, Atiku said IBB’s attributes of intelligence, wisdom, charisma, understanding and respect for Nigeria’s diversity has stood  the test of time. “General Babangida is amazingly gifted, he is a strategic thinker and a true believer in national unity and national integration, qualities for which history and posterity will deliver a favourable verdict on him,” he added.