Capricorn Digital Limited, owners of Baxi, said it will connect 70 per cent of Nigerian communities through financial inclusion by having a retail presence in every street and a digital presence in every household. The solution targets at least 70 per cent of the population focusing on financially including the unbanked individuals, young and old, who seek to make payments for everyday basic needs such as airtime vending, electricity bills, TV bills, and Agency banking in a seamless and stress-free fashion. The Central Bank of Nigeria licenced payment firm, has kicked-off a campaign tagged Baxi 2.0 application to promote the empowerment of individuals, retail merchants and SME’s and deepen financial inclusion across Nigerian communities. With the increase in growth of digital payment transactions in Nigeria rising to 10.3 trillion in January 2020, according to the Nigerian Interbank Settlement System (NIBBS), Baxi seeks to leverage on that to financially include and empower more Nigerians by launching the Baxi 2.0 application. The chief executive officer, Capricorn Digital, Degbola Abudu, said that Baxi 2.0 is geared towards empowering the Nigerian masses. The app is compatible with the android and iPhone operating systems (iOS), including the Baxi POS, which is an android operating system enabled device. It is available for downloads on google and apple play store. Baxi2.0 delivers top-notch digital products and services that cater to the daily needs of the Nigerian masses. Baxi 2.0, an upgrade to Baxi, builds a more rewarding payment platform that not only enables efficient and easy payment of bills and services but also integrates more people into the digital payment space through its new features and benefits. The product Individuals can pay for products and services within the confines of their homes or offices and earn commissions. What is more is that they can also earn referral bonuses when they refer people on their network to sign-up to the app. There is also the reward for life scheme whereby they continuously earn when those they refer continue to carry out transactions on the app. These individuals can range from the unemployed, self-employed, working class adults, families and students who pay for these services. The good news is, they earn commissions for just carrying out payment of bills and services on the app and other exciting features and rewards. Also, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises are not left out, they are another key target for this product as they seek to leverage the product as another source of business value and income generation. Large companies or corporations will also find the app a valuable asset, whether for income generation or business expense purposes. No one likes to go through the stress of making payments for bills and services. ABaxi is able to achieve this feat largely because of its creative workforce, strong network and partnerships with PayTV service providers, commercial banks, Telecommunications, power supply distributors and others in Nigeria as it continues to provide essential services required by its consumers