Wife of the House of Representatives member for Etinan federal constituency of Akwa Ibom state, Dr Uduak Onofiok Luke has doled out N7.5m business support fund to 350 constituent women. The women, drawn from Etinan, Nsit Ibom and Nsit Ubium federal constituency got the support to cushion the effect of Covid-19 on the economy of their families and enable them return to their businesses after the Lockdown. Addressing the beneficiaries at Nsit Ibom Council secretariat on Saturday, Mrs Luke advised the women to give credit for the intervention to her husband, Barr Onofiok Luke, whom she said was always alive to the need to empower women. She said the gesture was also in line with the Family Empowerment and Youth Re-Orientation Path-Initiative (FEYReP), the pet project of the wife of the governor, Dr (Mrs) Martha Udom Emmanuel. “The COVID-19 pandemic provided another opportunity for Her Excellency in support of the Governor through this initiative FEYREP to ameliorate the hardship caused by the breakout of the COVID-19. “Today, I am borrowing a leaf from Her Excellency’s drive, and in support of and to compliment the efforts of my husband, I am here to institute this support funding of N7.5 million for about 350 entrepreneurial women in Etinan Federal Constituency. “I have decided to provide this post covid support funding for 350 women who are entrepreneurs and petty traders cutting across this federal constituency to help cushion the attendant economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The outbreak of the Coronavirus has occasioned a very strong negative impact on individuals, families, countries and even the most organized economies of the world are scrambling for answers as the breakdown in the health and economic systems have been really manifest and it is for times like this that a little gift from a genuine heart of love would mean so much to someone. “A smile given, time spent and resources parted with could give another a reason to live and hope again and it is in the realization of these challenges and with the earnest expectation that the women of Etinan Federal Constituency would not feel the great weight of the biting scourge of the Pandemic for we have been admonished by Jesus Christ in Luke 3:11 that he who hath two coats should impart to him that had none and he that hath meat should do likewise. “This time in our history demands a collaborative approach towards giving adequate support to the most vulnerable amongst us and it is my firm believe that this intervention will help boost the participation of our women in business and enable them invest in their small businesses which will in turn assist them to provide support for their families and communities at large”. in her message of goodwill, wife of the Paramount Ruler, Nsit Ibom LGA, Obonganwan Ofonime Manasseh Simon advised political office holders and their wives to learn from Onofiok Luke and his wife, Dr Uduak Luke by always returning to the people who gave them the platform to rise. “When you have an opportunity to be elected into a public office, remember the people who sent you forth, you are nothing without the people. do not use proceeds from a public office as your family inheritance,” she advised