The federal government has approved the sum of N8.49 billion for the procurement of 12 items in various quantities for the testing of coronavirus pandemic by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire disclosed this to State House correspondents after the virtual federal executive council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa According to him, the procurement of the materials is for the preparation for COVID-19 pandemic which is ravaging all parts of the world including Nigeria. He explained that it is part of the preparedness for community transmission which is going on now and has affected over 586 local government areas and that the materials are needed to expand testing capacities and diagnostic capabilities. He said, “This memo is as a result of Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 pandemic and special intervention fund for COVID-19 which is operated by the Presidential Task Force, it allocates this resources for NCDC preparedness. So we are procuring testing materials right from sample materials to other kits diagnostic in our laboratories systems, to be able to respond properly to community transmission phase. “We have already made plans to have at least one sample collection center in every local government, minimum of 774 and these resources will be necessary to go around the 774 local government areas, to ensure that persons in rural areas and small towns are not excluded and to ensure that not only the big cities are the ones that are being attended to. “So that is the basis for the memo. The cost is N8.49 billion to procure the items that are involved. There are a total of 12 items, the quantities involved are large numbers which will be sent out later.” On why the PTF was reluctant in introducing PCR (polymerise chain reaction) tests, by making available rapid test kits which makes results available in minutes, Ehanire said: “It is not that nobody is thinking of rapid diagnostic test, it is being used all over the world even in Nigeria today but the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other experts, have said that this test is not very reliable in that it also delivered a significant number of false positive or false negative result.