The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq has presented 100 trucks of assorted grain as palliative to cushion the effect COVID-19 in Adamawa state Farouq said she was in Yola on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari to present the assorted grains from the National Food Reserve, approved as palliative for distribution to vulnerable persons affected by the recent restriction of movement to curtail the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. She said the outbreak of the pandemic has brought about changes and challenges to the normal ways of living of the people. “Most obvious, is the vulnerable persons that depend largely on others for their daily survival. “Such persons are the aged, people living with disabilities and persons of concerns that deserve support in terms of basic necessities including foods.” The food items brought to the state are: Maize 1,366.52 Metric tonnes (46 trailer load), Millet 172.19 Metric tonnes (6 trailer load) and  Sorghum 1,428.17 Metric tonnes (48 trailer load). The food items she explained  are meant to cater for 59,338 households to benefit. “It is important to put on record that Adamawa State has benefitted from the Emergency Agricultural Intervention Programme which was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. “It commenced with verification of affected farmers and was immediately followed by the distribution of farm inputs. “The inputs already distributed comprised of seeds/seedlings, agrochemicals and knapsack sprayers. “A total of 10,142 farmers have been verified to benefit from the fertilizer for having been affected by the flood and 11, 400 affected by conflicts. Modified liquid fertilizer will be supplied for the distribution in place of solid NPK which was suspended in 2019 based on directive of the National Security Adviser. “The state is known to be one of the major food producers in the country with the citizens largely engaged in farming activities. “However, the annual occurrence of flood have continued to threaten this potential. Floods have become a recurring experience in Nigeria. After the 2012 devastating flood, a similar one occurred in 2018 leading to a declaration of disaster emergency in many states. “Though climate change has been largely blamed for this increasing phenomenon, it is our responsibility as government and people to evolve strategies to minimize losses through adherence to warning alerts, early preparation and proper response. “May I draw the attention of Your Excellency to the 2020 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction and the Annual Flood Outlook. These documents have forecasted flood situation for different parts of the country. The Annual Flood Outlook informed that 102 Local Government Areas, in 28 States fall within the highly probable risk areas, while 275 Local Government Areas in the 36 states of the Federation including the Federal Capital Territory fall within the moderately probable flood risk areas. The remaining 397 Local Government Areas fall within the low probable flood risks areas. Unfortunately, the predicted floods have started to occur in many parts of the country. Therefore, it is imperative to activate all plans and measures against the prediction as the season moves towards the peak. This year, the highly probable flood risk areas in Adamawa State are Yola North, Yola South and Lamurde Local Government Areas; while the probable flood risk areas are Numan, Guyuk and Demsa Local Government Areas. The Minister  requested the government to take proactive and necessary mitigative measures in addressing these issues. Earlier in his remarks, Governor Ahmadu Fintiri has urged federal government to complete abandoned federal projects in the state. Fintiri observed that completion of Chochi irrigation project would generate job creation for the people of the state. He thanked federal government for the intervention saying it would go a long way in addressing suffering of the people of the state. 