The State Media Campaign Council of the All Progressives Congress for
the Edo Governorship election has dismissed as deceitful and
impractical, the announced approval of all outstanding promotions in
Edo State’s public service by the state Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. Recall that the Governor made the announcement last week through a
circular letter sent to the Secretary to the State Government and the
Head of Service, directing “Ministries, Agencies, and Departments
[MDAs] to commence the process of the promotion exercise of eligible
officers without delay.” However, in a statement released by the Chairman of the APC Media
Campaign Council, Mr. John Mayaki, the APC said the governor was
merely playing to the gallery as the approval of appointments and
promotion in the civil service is not part of the governor’s
portfolio, but that of the civil service and judicial service
commissions respectively. Mayaki accused the governor of pervading the media space with lies
designed to misrepresent events in the state, and take credit for
developments his administration lack the competence and constitutional
mandate to carry out. He sai, “Mr. Godwin Obaseki, who has decimated the Edo State public
service with his corruption and detached style of governance which has
alienated public servants in the State, has disgracefully gone from
claiming credits for projects executed and funded by SEEFOR and NDDC,
to issuing weightless statements and directives he has no
constitutional power to enforce. “While Mr. Godwin Obaseki’s poor understanding of the workings of
government and public service rules is an established fact. The series
of announcements emanating from Osadebey Avenue are nonetheless
deliberate falsehoods placed in the media as part of an elaborate
deception campaign. “His purported approval of promotions that he has ignored since 2018
but suddenly interested in a few weeks to election is an empty
directive, a play to the gallery, and a shameful attempt at deceit all
just to win votes. “It is not part of the governor’s portfolio to approve appointments in
the public service, but constitutionally, that of the civil service
and judicial service commissions respectively. In the same vein, the
only role by government or the governor, is to approve
vacancies/establishments positions beyond which the aforementioned
commissions cannot go. “To worsen, if not render invalid, the recent assumed promotions, is
the fact that as we speak presently, because of the nonchalance and
incompetence of Governor Godwin Obaseki, Edo State has no functional
judicial service commission due to his refusal to inaugurate the
appointed one for political reasons similar to his illegal exclusion
of duly elected members of the Edo Assembly for months. “It is common knowledge that no promotions are ideally made in the
public service without the candidates attending statutorily ordained
promotion interviews either before the civil service commission or
judicial service commission as the case may be. “Ultimately, while it is understandable that the time and period is
that which warrants promotion of self, it is however reprehensible and
morally condemnable for the Governor to desperately lie and
deceive-all in the bid to curry favor in the eyes of the people
following his failure to positively impact the lives of Edo people in
the last four years.”