The National Headquarters of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), has condemned the alleged extra-Judicial killing of Fulani pastoralists in Zuru emirate of Kebbi State. Miyetti Allah in a statement issued by its National Secretary, Baba Uthman Ngelzarma, noted that the killing was in three Local Governments of Zuru Sakaba, Fakai and Dango/Wasagu, under Zuru Emirate Council in Kebbi State. He said 68 people including one year old child were killed by Dakarkari “Yan Sa kai” group between April 29th to August, 11th this year 2020. He explains that the dastardly act which started on the 29th of April, 2020 continued unabated and no one is being arrested or being held accountable for this killings. “The first murder took place in broad day light at the premises of the Technical College Zuru where eight (8) Fulani people were killed. This trend continued in the communities of Danko, Maga, Ribah, Joli, Kadurga, Marafa, Kanya, Unashi and Ayyu, where a total of 68 people were perished for no just cause other than being pastoral Fulani. “On the 11th of April, 2020, Alhaji kiruwa, a shop owner at the Danko market was kitled for no apparent reasons. “This murderous gang is getting bolder and bolder by the day and if care is not taken the crises in these areas might snowball into a large conflict. “The silence and in-action of the traditional institution, the local and State Government to deal with this lawlessness is capable of further expanding the insecurity this country is dealing with in the North-West Region,” he said. He further said that the “Yan Sa kai” held four policemen hostage in Ribah Division in Danko-Wasagu until their members who were arrested for involvement in the killings are released. They only released the policemen when their conditions were met. Adding that “they also went to the Road Safety office in Zuru and forcefully retrieved the vehicles and motorcycles that were impounded by the officers of the Road Safety. We were informed that they shot and wounded a military officer in one of their encounter in Kangon Wasagu”. He appeal to the government of Kebbi State and the security agencies to live up to their responsibilities by arresting and prosecuting all those responsible for these criminal activities. No one should be above the law. According to him, “We have directed the Kebbi State chapter of MACBAN to ensure that all our members who are affected in one way or the other by this criminality to exercise restraint and allow the law to take its course. “As a responsible and law abiding association we will not allow the situation to further deteriorate because we always believe two wrongs do not make a right. “The National Headquarters have been furnished with a comprehensive list of all those murdered and the town and villages where this heinous act were committed,” he added.