In recognition of the World Breastfeeding Week, Medela Cares Initiative has announced its partnership with The Wellbeing Foundation Africa (WBFA) to improve breastfeeding support and resources in Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICUs) in Nigeria. Medela Cares initiative is to help combat malnutrition and low breastfeeding rates in Nigeria by focusing on lactation care offered to mothers of NICU infants In a press statement by Wellbeing Foundation’s Press Secretary, Shola Ayelabola and made available to journalist said the partnership which will commence with a webinar on August 7, 2020, will work to improve the support offered to new mothers in Nigeria by delivering NICU-specific education and training on the value of human milk and how to build sufficient milk supply for long-term breastfeeding. “This work will involve frontline healthcare workers, nonprofit organizations and government agencies. “Medela’s long history as a global player in breastfeeding research, products, technology and innovation is the perfect partner for Wellbeing Foundation Africa in our quest to improve Nigeria’s prevalence of breastfeeding and our focus on NICU support,” said Her Excellency Toyin Ojora Saraki, founder and president of Wellbeing Foundation Africa. “Ensuring new mothers are wholly supported to breastfeed is not only critical for the health and wellbeing of the baby: it can be linked to all 17 of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals,” the statement said. The partnership will commence with a webinar on August 7, 2020 about Breastfeeding in High Risk Countries, a panel discussion with Her Excellency Toyin Saraki, Founder WBFA, Annette Brüls, CEO of Medela, Dr. Prof. Diane Spatz, PhD, RN-BC, FAAN, and Rita Momoh, lead midwife at WBFA, moderated by Tolu Adeleke, founder of Tolu The Midwife Healthcare Solutions and CEO of Maternity Hub (Nigeria). The group will discuss the need to address infant mortality and share how midwives and mothers can be supported to champion breastfeeding efforts in high risk countries such as Nigeria. To register for this webinar, visit https://bit.ly/3145E9T.