The Council of State has ratified the presidential pardon granted to former governor of old Bendel State, Ambrose Alli, and three others. Recall that in 1983, Alli was removed from office as a civilian governor and jailed after a military tribunal found him guilty of allegedly misappropriating N983,000 funds for a road project. He was subsequently granted posthumous pardon this year. The Council also ratified the pardon of Col. Moses Effiong, Major E.J. Olarenwaju and Ajayi Olusola Babalola . Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), disclosed this to State House correspondents after the virtual Council of State meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa yesterday. He also said the Council approved the appointment of two new legal practitioners as members of Federal Judicial Service Commission. Malami explained that the law confers on the President to appoint members of the Commission, subject to consultation with the Council of State. He said the exercise relating to the presentation of the council memo was for the purpose of fulfilling the constitutional right relating to the appointment of the two new legal practitioners. According to him, it was to consult with the council of state out of desire for compliance with constitutional requirements. “The two members to represent Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) on the Federal Judicial Service Commission are, Namoso Ekanem (SAN), from Akwa Ibom State representing the South South geo-political zone and Mammud Abubakar Mogaji (SAN) from Niger State to represent the North Central geo-political zone. “The second memo, is relating to the Presidential Advisory Committee on Prerogative of Mercy. “The memo presented for consultation in line with one of the constitutional requirements and consideration of grant of pardon to 45 persons, two inmates for pardon, 39 inmates for clemency and four ex-convict for presidential pardon. “To further clarify on the prerogative of mercy, Mr. President with COVID-19 pandemic, has directed the decongestion of our correctional centers across the country. “And by way of collaborative action, the governors, heads of courts across the nations, have worked assiduously in collaboration with the presidential committee on decongestion of our correctional centers and at the end of the day we have succeeded in taking out over 4,000inmates out of our correctional centers across the country. “As you are aware, more than 70 percent inmates in our correctional centers were awaiting trial across the country and a lot ofconsiderations were put in place to ensure our correctional centers are decongested d the prerogative of mercy was one of such considerations by Mr. President. Meanwhile, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, said the Council of State has approved the appointment of Nasiru Isa Kwarra as chairman of National Population Commission (NPC). Members of the Commission approved are Muhammed Chuso A. Dottijo (Sokoto); Alhaji Razaq Gidado (Kwara); Ibrahim Mohammed  (Bauchi); Joseph Kwai Shazin, (FCT); Engineer Bala Almu Banya, (Katsina); and Mrs. Bimbola Salu-Hundeyin, (Lagos). Recall also, that President Muhammadu Buhari had in two separate letters dated March 20 and August 12, 2020, nominated Agara, a former deputy governor of Nasarawa State, to head the NPC.