Oilserv Group, an Oil and Gas company in Nigeria has placed order for vehicles valued at over N600 million from Innoson Vehicle Motors (IVM) company with the aim of supporting local production of vehicles. The chairman/group CEO of Oilserv Group, Dr Emeka Okwuosa who disclosed this while conducting a tour of the IVM manufacturing plant in Nnewi, said the vehicles would be used in the oil and gas operations. Okwuosa said that the essence of the visit was to encourage local content in the company, adding that “Chief Innocent Chukwuma remains a brand that cannot be comparable in vehicles manufacturing companies. According to him, “Innoson motors manufactures vehicles from scratch to finish. This is a huge development to Nigeria economy and growth to local content capacity. We are partnering with IVM on vehicles that are going to be used in the oil and gas industry for our operations. “The company is very effective in fulfilling local content development. We are partnering with IVM in the area of conceptualisation, manufacturing and use of local vehicles in the oil and gas sector” The Oilserv chairman said that innoson motors is a testimony to development of local capacity in Nigeria, adding that the company since the second quarter of 2020 has transacted over ₦600 million purchase order with Innoson with different projects. In his remarks, chairman/CEO, IVM, Chief Innocent Chukwuma, lauded Oilserv management for their support towards promoting local capacity, while urging other companies and individuals to do same. Chukwuma said that the company sources about 60 per cent of its materials in-country, adding that it is a 100 per cent manufacturing company and not assembling company. According to him, the company only imports engine and light while all the electrical aspects and others equipment are been sourced in-country. “We are proudly Nigeria vehicles manufacturing company, like Oilserv who has excelled in engineering. We also partner with the military on special vehicles manufacturing and other companies,” Chukwuma added. 