The outbreak of COVID-19 in Nigeria early this year which threw many states into confusion jolted governors’ consciousness towards the need to search for possible ways of curtailing the spread and provide succour to vulnerable households who can’t afford to feed themselves under the lockdown occasioned by the virus.  In Katsina State, the index case was discovered in Daura local government area where the victim, late Dr Aliyu, who was said to have returned from Lagos, died few days before the release of the result of his sample which showed he tested positive.  It was in the midst of the heightened anxiety that Govenor Aminu Bello Masari ordered lockdown of Daura local government area and directed that contact tracing of all persons who had made contact with Dr Aliyu be carried out and ensured to ensure they are isolated while their samples are taken for test.  As is the case with most states, the number of persons who test positive for the pandemic keeps increasing by the day and sending jitters down the spine of most residents.  As expected, residents of the state, especially artisans who depend solely on daily jobs to earn a living, became so worried and confused with thoughts of how they can survive the pandemic that has crippled social and economic activities.  But the continuous spread of the virus in the state also forced the government to shut down some local government areas infested with the pandemic. Some essential areas were however allowed to operate on the condition that they comply with COVID-19 guidelines of hands washing, use of face masks and maintenance of social distancing.  As a demonstration of his commitment to confronting the pandemic, Governor Masari swiftly swung into action, constituted two committees: the emergency response committee and implementation committee.   The emergency response committee, headed by his Deputy, Mannir Yakubu, was saddled with the responsibility of containing the spread of virus and to raise funds from individuals and well-meaning citizens of the state that would assist government in the fight as well as giving support and palliatives to vulnerable households.  On the other hand, the implementation committee chaired by the Governor himself has the sole duty of spearheading the distribution and implementation of the resources gathered.  Indeed, the aggressive efforts of these committees backed up by the governor’s support, has contributed immensely in mitigating the impact of the disease in Katsina State.   Conscious of the fact that the pandemic and indeed the attendant lockdown have forced so many residents into life squalor, Governor Masari led the move to distribute palliatives to hundreds of household so as to cushion the impact of the pandemic.  Last week, the governor flagged off the distribution of food items to some 67,109 vulnerable households in the state. Speaking during the event, Governor Masari lamented that resources budgeted for developmental projects in the state were channeled towards containing the spread of the pandemic, but however expressed optimism that at the end of the day, through prayers, the state and the country at large would come out victorious.  Food items and other essential products were distributed to the households, most of who applauded efforts of the state government and the CACOVID for driving the process of mitigating impact of the disease.  Recall that the state government had revised its 2020 budget from N244 billion to N213 billion due to the fall in the price of crude oil as well as the coronavirus pandemic. But Governor Masari reassured residents of government’s readiness to do all things possible to contain the spread of the virus and in so doing, flatten the curve.  Interestingly, both the response and implementation committees which comprise of representatives from key government agencies, community and civil society organisations, local government committees and journalists have demonstrated uncanny commitment to mitigating the impact of the pandemic.  Chairman of COVID-19 response committee who is also the deputy governor, Mannir Yakubu, said Katsina State now has 746 positive cases. He disclosed that 24 deaths were recorded, while 705 patients had been discharged, leaving 17 who are currently receiving treatment in isolation centres.  Explaining the efforts of the committee in the fight against COVID-19, Mannir stated: “The emergence of COVID-19 pandemic in the state and the nation in general witnessed an unprecedented solidarity and cooperation between the private sector and the federal and state governments of the disease.  “Consequently, and in line with this resolve, the CACOVID has made two donations to Katsina state, namely: the donation of hospital equipment and materials which facilitated the take-off of one of our isolation centres  and the donation of assorted food items to 67,106 vulnerable households across the 34 local government areas of the state.”  He further added that so far the state received a total of 428, 311 out of 469,742 assorted food items donated to the state by the CACOVID, even as he also assured the outstanding items will be delivered within the next two weeks.  The deputy governor also explained that the donations received from individuals and corporate organizations, both in cash and kind, amounted to N1.11 billion.  He continued: “As at 8th August, 2020, the total sum of one billion , eleven million, four hundred and sixty two thousand, one hundred and forty four Naira  forty three Kobo only ( N1, 011,462,144.43) was received as donations including those received from the state and local government councils amounting to the sum of N700,000,000,00.  “So far the sum of N920 , 000, 000, 00 has been expended in the operation of the committee. The highest individuals donation of N100 million came from Alhaji Dahiru Bara’u Mangal, the Chairman/Chief Executive officer of AFDIN group of company, who happened to be the deputy chairman of the state COVID-19 emergency response committee”.  He listed the setting up of 3 functional COVID-19 isolation centres, furnished with standard equipment, materials and medicament at General Amadi Rimi Specialist Hospital; IDP camp isolation centre and Daura General Hospital as well as comprehensive health centres across the state as part of the efforts to contain the disease in the state.  According to Mannir, the effective management of COVID-19 patients with good nutrition and habitation, provision of adequate Personnel Protective Equipment (PPEs) and good remuneration for the frontline medical personnel are also part of the efforts made by the committee.  On the Covid-19 sample testing, he said the committee has facilitated the accreditation of Sahel medical laboratory as one of the approved centres for the testing. 150 bed capacity functional Holding Centre at Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC) training Centre was also set up.  According to him, the committee also worked in the rehabilitation, upgrading and conversation of 150 bed capacity hostels at NYSC camp and 200 bed capacity centre at youth and Leadership Training Centre, Tashar Bala, along Kano road to a functional Isolation Centre.  ” The setting up of 10 bed capacity holding centre at each of the 23 General Hospitals Covid-19 samples in the country, thereby easing testing processes in the state which hitherto was characterised  by delay and uncertainty”, he maintained.  In his speech, the representative of CACOVID, Alhaji Muhammad Bello, thanked Governor Masari for giving CACOVID all the needed support in the fight against the deadly virus, expressing satisfaction with the transparent processes of harnessing resources.  Corroborating this, Baraka Usman, one of the beneficiaries of the palliatives, admitted receiving cartons of spaghetti, noodles, 10kg of rice, 10kg of maize, 5kg of sugar and 1kg of salt.  “We are indeed grateful to the state government and all those who have supported in one way or the other. This gift will go a long way in helping me and my kids”, she said in Hausa.  A cross section of beneficiaries said the items would go a long way in ameliorating the suffering caused by the COVID-19 outbreak.