A Kaduna State Magistrate Court has ordered the arraignment of the prime suspect Nehemiah Ojonugwa Adejor and discharged two other suspects who were alleged to be involved in the killing of Flying Officer Tolulope Arotile. The presiding Judge, Justice Benjamin Hassan, after hearing the legal
advice from the director, Kaduna State Ministry of Justice, Department
of Public Prosecutions however discharged the 2nd and 3rd suspects
Folorunsho Igbekele Faith and Gbayegun Deji
respectively. The Judge said there was insufficient evidence against the 2nd
and 3rd suspects as the entire investigation according to the advice
from the Kaduna State Ministry of Justice under the Department of
Public Prosecution did not disclose any offence against them other
than being passengers in the vehicle of the 1st suspect. Hence, Justice Benjamin ordered that the 1st suspect should be
arraigned in the high court for the offence of culpable homicide not
punishable with death as all evidence from the investigation has shown
that he was the one driving the vehicle involved, contrary to section
191 of the Kaduna State Penal Code Law, 2017 as there is no
premeditation in the death of the deceased. The defence counsel to the 2nd and 3rd defendants in the case,
Barrister Imodu Abudu Suke expressed happiness saying that he knew
right from the beginning of the case that they will be discharged as
the allegations pointed at the suspects lack element of the case of
which they were charged. When asked whether the discharged suspects will be used as witnesses
for the trial of the 1st suspect as advised by the Kaduna State
Ministry of Justice which was read openly to the presiding judge,
Barrister Imodu said it depends on the prosecution counsel to decide
whether they will be used as witnesses or they have better ones. The Kaduna Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Muhammad Jalige who
spoke on behalf of the Kaduna Command Legal Officer, DSP Martins Leo
said the suspects were arraigned in court for the killing of
Tolulope Arotile and charged for culpable homicide and
criminal conspiracy. However, according to the advice sought by the
prosecution counsel from the ministry of justice, the ministry advised that
the two suspects be discharged and accordingly said the 1st suspect,
Nehimiah Ojonugwa Adejor be arraigned before the high court for
prosecution on the offence of culpable homicide not punishable with
death, which will come up on 3rd September, 2020. It would be recalled that on Thursday August 12, 2020, the 2nd and 3rd
suspects were granted a bail of N1 million and N500,000
respectively by presenting two sureties who must reside within the
jurisdiction of the court and are engaged in legal businesses and also
present bank verifiable numbers that correspond with their
information. The prosecution counsel had charged Adejor with a four count charge
of causing death by dangerous driving, driving without due care and
attention, driving without drivers licence and driving without
authorization of the owner. He pleaded not guilty.