Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu has declared that the All Progressive Forum (APC) governors are solidly behind the candidature of the party flag bear , Pastor Osagie Ize- Iyamu at the Edo gubernatorial elections He stated this yesterday to State House correspondents after the party leaders presented Ize- Iyamu to President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa. Bagudu who is also the chairman of the progressive governors’ forum said it is laughable to suggest otherwise. He said “The question has been asked whether all APC governors are in full support of our candidate and the simple answer is yes. It is laughable to suggest otherwise. Progressive Governors forum was solidly behind our party in the resolutions that was reached on June 25, that saw the emergence of the caretaker committee that saw the ratification of the candidature of Pastor Ize – Iyamu and we have consulted with the chairman of the caretaker committee in putting in place the campaign committee which is ably chaired by the Governor of Kano State and supported by other governors. “since the candidate emerged , since the ratification, all the APC governors have been working in different ways to ensure the success of our party and let me just remind some of you ,this is not different from what we have done before . “Four years ago we were in the same Edo state in very difficult election and we supported the incumbent governor then, Adams Oshiomole to campaign for the party which saw the emergence of Godwin Obaseki as governor, what we are doing today is not different. “For the progressive governors forum the defining thing is continuity of All Progressive Congress in governance at the federal and across Nigeria and we will support our party any day .our president has made it very clear about his expectations as to deliver our party in any elections and that is what we are going to do On his part, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje said Edo state gubernatorial elections will be a walk in the park for the party on the grounds that the incumbent governor performed abysmally. According to him, Obaseki is a liability to the PDP so the task of defeating him will be easy . “Your question is that we are contesting against a serving governor in Edo State. Yes, that is a very important question at this material time. “It could have been a big problem if the governor performs well while governing his state. He could have been an asset to PDP. But I assure you that governor is a liability. In fact, it’s even better for us that we are contesting with a serving governor who failed woefully. He failed woefully in the area of human development. “He failed woefully in the area of providing infrastructural facilities to the good people of Edo State, who failed most woefully in the execution of constitutional provision in the state, especially pertaining to the legislature. “14 members were out of the legislature for 13 good months. When we calculated, we saw those 14 legislators are representing 60 per cent of the population. “All their constituents are unhappy that elected legislators were not given the chance to participate in the legislations in that state. In fact, all the legislations made should be considered as illegal. So, we are ready to fight somebody who has failed and it’s an advantage to us,” he added.