As Nigeria joins the rest of the world to mark this year’s World Mask Week, KAS Consult Ltd, manufacturers of KAS 3 in 1 protection pack, is distributing N50million worth of Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs) to secondary school in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), towards mitigating the spread of Covid-19. Speaking at a press conference to mark the World Mask Week, theme: fighting Covid-19 with love, and launch of KAS 3 in 1 protection pack, the managing director and CEO of the company, Ademola Kasumu, identified unity and love as key to defeating the  COVID-19 pandemic. “We believe that the best way to conquer COVID-19 is to fight it with love, by contributing and donating PPEs to the vulnerable as a way to curb community spread of the virus. And this has Informed our reason for choosing only the final year students sitting for WAEC in schools in Abuja for this distribution”, he said. Ademola stressed the need for Nigerians to adhere to non-pharmaceutical measures, such as appropriate use of facemask, observing social distancing and regular washing of hands with soap, saying it remains the best and cheapest option until there is a vaccine. Appreciating the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the federal government for their unrelenting effort in the fight against COVID-19, Ademola urged corporate individuals and organisations to join hands in the fight against the pandemic, as it is not to be left for the government alone. “The children who are heading back to school are our children, and we will stop at nothing to protect their lives at all cost. This is the community we have chosen. And we also urge other individuals and corporate organisations to chose a community of their choice today to deploy the KAS 3 in 1 weapon, and we will all remain safe and flatten the curve the curve together.” The schools benefiting from this gesture are Junior Secondary School Narai Karu, Karu; Community Secondary School Asokoro,  FCT mass education Karu, Federal govt boys college Gudu Amongst others. On her part, the Head, Supply Chain Division HEPR, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), represented by Oluwatetisimi Aiyegbusi, appreciated the management of KAS Consult for their gesture while urging Nigerians to always adhere to the NCDC protective guidelines and also maintain good personal hygiene. 