The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Kaduna State Chapter, has
concluded its four-Sunday interdenominational prayers and indoor
protest declared for God’s intervention in the recurring attacks and
unwarranted killings in Southern part of Kaduna State. Two of the Sundays were tagged, ‘Black Sundays’ while the other two
were tagged, ‘White Sundays’ in which case all the Christians adorned
themselves in black and white attires for the respective Sundays. In his message, Apostle Emmanuel Nuhu Kure of the Vision Pioneer
Throneroom (Trust) Ministry, suggested that the Government needs to
find a way of giving autonomy for the people of Southern Kaduna,
saying that would be a permanent solution. Kure averred that the ongoing narrative is reason why Southern Kaduna
is not developing, and not because there is no peace in the region as
opined, stressing that government must be fair to all sides regardless
of political divides. “Nigeria needs strategic leadership for the
future” he said. He noted that the Fulanis and the Southern Kaduna locals have lived
together in peace, stressing that there are still Fulanis in his
Village that are transacting their businesses and they’re going about
their normal life even in Jaba land and Kagoma. He said, “Leave us alone, we’ll sort ourselves out because our Fathers
knew each other. I know the Fulani people my Parents sent to School.
We have a relationship”, disclosing that the present Deputy Governor
of the State had the privilege as part of her education was as a
support from a Christian family. Apostle Kure posited that Nigeria needs a leader who has no religious
bias and has deep wisdom that would lead the Country. “We need people who are pure in heart not people who are sentimental
and have no interest for peace. Even people who are pretending not
having interest actually have interest. According to him, those who are doing peace talks are doing so
because, there is a reward for that, or so that the Governor would
call them and give them something, and that kind of a person certainly
would be bias. “It is a herculean task for the Government to find people who are not
bias, but we have them in our society to stop the crises. What the
Church is doing now is giving the society hope and waiting for the
government to resolve the lingering issues. We’re calming the society
down to wait for a savior that is taking too long in coming and the
people are becoming restless. “It is unfortunate that Pastors are burying Pastors, and are coming to
cry in my house, this barbaric incidences has to stop now,” Apostle Kure said. Also speaking, the CAN Chairman, Kaduna State Chapter, Rev. John
Joseph Hayab,  urged Christians to continue to pray for Nigeria and
Kaduna State, adding that God will bring all the attackers on their
knees and expose them. “God will continue to fight the battle of his people.”