A former governorship candidate in Imo State and Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Uche Nwosu, has described as unfounded, reports that President Muhammadu Buhari has jettisoned his support for the Southeast to produce the next Nigerian President of Igbo extraction in 2023. He said that those behind the alleged abandonment of the Southeast presidential ambition by Buhari, are not taking into account the President’s character of integrity, justice and straightforwardness. Nwosu who spoke with selected journalists in Abuja, urged the Igbo to rather support President Buhari to succeed, adding that at the appropriate time, “he will make the Igbo smile”. The Igbo were wooed to support Buhari’s re-election in 2019 in exchange for his support to clinch the Presidency in 2023. Nwosu who dismissed the stance of some Nigerians that the Presidency should be based on merit and competency rather than zoning, insisted that there is no zone in the country that does not have competent people that can be President, “in the Southeast, we have very competent and distinguished personalities that can be President, even though I cannot name them now”. According to Nwosu, “I still believe that supporting Buhari is the surest route to Igbo Presidency because all we are hearing is rumour, I know that President Muhammadu Buhari is a man of integrity, he is a man that believes in fairness and justice, so what we hear about the Presidency going to other zones is nothing but ordinary rumour. “President Buhari will support the Igbo, all we are hearing are mere rumour, at the right time Buhari will make the Igbo smile. All we need to do is to keep supporting and praying for him to succeed so that the Igbo can have a smooth ride in 2023. Supporting his administration in every ramification, giving him encouragement, not talking ill about him because Buhari’s success as APC President will give an APC candidate from the Southeast a milestone to succeed”. Nwosu however noted that the APC, the platform on which the Southeast Presidency is likely to be realized, has no visible leadership in the zone. “What we lack is the leadership that will galvanize the Southeast APC, it is not about sitting in Abuja and claiming leadership. We need leaders who can command followership in the zone, not a band of Abuja based politicians who are completely disconnected from the zone. The leaders must come together and work with other zones because we can’t do it alone”. “There is no unity of purpose in APC leadership in the Southeast, the crisis in the APC but it will not affect the 2023 Igbo presidency, when Obasanjo came to power in 1999, the South West did not support him, the entire South West never supported Obasanjo, they were in AD, all the states in the zone were won by AD but that did not stop Obasanjo from becoming President, so if the only challenge of Igbo Presidency is the party, we will surmount it”. He also took a swipe at Igbo politicians promoting the notion that the Igbo are not ready for the 2023 presidency, describing them as traitors who should not be taken seriously. On the alleged marginalization of the Southeast in appointments by the Buhari’s administration, Nwosu stated that, “I keep saying it that my appointment or that of any other person can’t meet the challenges in the zone and once it does not bring food on the table of the common masses in the zone, it means nothing. “You can have 100 people appointed into government from one zone and they don’t have roads, airport, bridges and their schools are not constructed, so what then is the benefit of the appointments. So, the appointment I cherish is infrastructure development. If President Muhummadu Buhari has constructed the second Niger Bridge, if he has transformed the Enugu airport, if he has done the Port Harcourt-Owerri road, the Owerri-Aba road, then it is the best appointment, that is the kind of appointment I expect, not the appointment that will bring nothing to the zone”. Meanwhile, he commended President Buhari for the re-modelling of the Enugu Airport, the construction of the second Niger Bridge and the proposed Aba-Port Harcourt-Enugu rail project, describing it as strategic investment that will boost commerce in the Southeast. 