Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, has described as
“criminal and very disturbing, “the closure of shops of Nigerians in
Ghana by the authorities. Senator Abaribe, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Uchenna Awom,
said Ghana’s action against nationals of other countries, particularly
Nigerians, points to state endorsement of xenophobic attacks. “The authorities in that country needs to prove us wrong by putting a
halt to further closure of the shops and attacks on Nigerians in
compliance to the Economic Community of West African Countries
(ECOWAS) protocol”, he said. The Minority Leader regrets and describes as a willful denigration of
sub-regional brotherhood and one that is in clear conflict with ECOWAS
protocol, Ghana’s recent regulations, which stipulates that retail
trade is the exclusive preserve of Ghanaians. “So what’s the point of having an economic community if, at the end of
the day, each country resolves to make laws and regulations that are
in contradiction with the binding protocol? This is quite absurd as it
negates the spirit that propelled the formation of ECOWAS in the first
place”, Abaribe added. The lawmakers accordingly, urged ECOWAS to brace up and come clear in
the prevailing circumstances to address the member-country behavior,
and it’s far reaching implications in her protocol, particularly the
issue of free trade and movement among the peoples of the West African
sub-region. He stated that, it is very unfortunate that Ghana, which hitherto has
been enjoying a robust relationship with Nigeria, has in recent times
been treating our people with so much contempt and underserved
reprehension. The latest actions Abaribe added, calls to question their real
intentions towards Nigeria and Nigerians, and this is despite the fact
that Nigeria had through her foreign affairs Minister, reached an
agreement with Ghana Investment Promotion Council on this matter. “And now they are reopening the matter. So what has changed? Nigeria I
believe has done her best in the promotion of good neighborliness, it
is now Ghana’s turn to reciprocate and allow our people in that
country to carry out their legitimate businesses unhindered,” he
added.