Not less than 22 persons, mostly women and children, have been reportedly killed last night, with many persons still unaccounted for as gunmen described as Fulani by survivors, attacked four Atyap villages in Zangon Kataf Local Government Areas (LGA) of Kaduna state. The affected villages were largely burnt after the attackers, who according to accounts of survivors, included local Fulanis born and raised in the affected villages. This is coming after a 24hrs curfew has been imposed on the affected area since 11th June, 2020 with 12 Atyap youths who defied the curfew and went to farm arrested and taken to Kaduna for prosecution since July, 2020, our source revealed. The attacked villages are: Apyiashyim, Atak’mawei, Kibori, and kurmin Masara (Apia’ahko) all in Atyap Chiefdom. A resident of Atak’mawei, village in Zamandabo ward, Irimiya Gandu who confirmed the incident to LEADERSHIP on Thursday morning said no fewer than 13 persons have been killed and many houses were in his community burnt after it was looted. According to him it was at around 1:am while he was already asleep when he heard the sound of gunshots. ” I stepped out, from our compound we could hear the sound of gunshots around and Apia’akum Community and far Kibori village were already under attack and houses burning at around 1: am ” I rush into my house and brought out my families and ran to a safer place.
” So far, 13 persons are killed mostly Children and women. We are still looking for more. Many houses were burnt also. “The attackers are Fulani. Some of them were born and raised in this community but left two months ago without saying why,” he said. Speaking in very sad mood, a youth from a Apia’ahko, Samson Alat said an aged man, a little child and youth were killed when the armed men invaded the village. “We know some of the attackers. They are Fulani who grew up here. They came with other persons and they were shouting our names that we should come out. “They burnt the house of late Col. Bobai and five important houses and stole from the village. “The army came on motor bikes and an armoured tank but they did not stop these wicked people. They came and left them to continue. We were hiding inside maize farm and we saw them. This was around 1am last night. We are still looking for more missing people,” he said. A resident in Apiashyim,Jonathan Ishaya said 6 persons were killed during the attack on his community and the village almost entirely razed. According to him the Fulani Militia invaded the Community heavily armed at around 11: pm of Wednesday night shooting sporadically. He lamented that security operatives were inform of the ongoing attack but only responded when the attackers had already carried out their heinous act. ” The security agencies are not here to protect us. They are only protecting the Hausa and Fulani in Zangon Kataf town. And it from that place that they are coming to kill us. “For nearly two months now we cannot go to farm because of the curfew. Hunger is already killing us before these Fulani came in again,” he lamented.