Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) has raised the alarm that the Federation Account is currently over stressed by the demands made on the account by the three tiers of government. Chairman of the RMAFC, Engr Elias Mbam who raised the alarm, said this was as a result of over-dependence on the account by the tiers of government. While calling on states and local governments to develop strategies to boost their internal revenues, he said at a time like this, it was imperative for state governments to boost their internally generated revenues (IGR). Mbam made the call while receiving an Annual States Viability Index (ASVI) from the Editor-in-Chief of the Economic Confidential, Mr Yushau  Shuaib in his office in Abuja. He said: “The annual ASVI report apart from providing a good source of information to the general public also has been identified as a source of information that would drive RMAFC on its mandate to encourage states of the federation to improve their internally generated revenue.” According to the report, only Rivers, Kaduna, Enugu, Kwara and Zamfara States did well with regards to impressive revenue generation in 2019 compared to their IGR in the previous year 2018 by improving more than 10 per cent. The states with the worst IGR performance in 2019 thus rendering them insolvent according to the report are Katsina, Kebbi, Borno, Bayelsa and Taraba States. Speaking on the report, Mr Shuaib said the ASVI report assessed and ranked states by their annual IGR in comparison to their receipts from the Federation Account Allocation. He said the report has shown that “without the monthly disbursement from the Federation Account, many states cannot survive as the indices showed that seven states are insolvent due to very poor IGR that were far below 10 per cent of their receipts from the Federation Account.” Mr. Shuaib stated that apart from Lagos and Ogun States that ranked high in the revenue generation in 2019, more states have recorded impressive and encouraging IGR in 2019 compared to 2018. 