The Abuja chapter of the Nigerian Institution Of Estate Surveyors and Valuers ( NIESV) is to generate more revenue through acquisition of more properties and completion of ongoing building projects. The new chairman, ESV Ikenna Aghaji disclosed this yesterday as part of his growth plans for the branch while delivering his acceptance speech immediately after his investiture as the 11th chairman. He said, “Our 28 years old branch deserves to own more properties both for income generation and prestige. We plan to complete the Supercell building project, which has remained uncompleted for years, commission it, and let it out so that it can start yielding income for the branch.” To execute the projects, including completion of payment started by his predecessor, ESV Charles Ebiai, for Abuja’s space in the new NIESV National Secretariat Building, Aghaji said a project committee would be set up. promising to take the branch to the next level, the new Abuja Branch Chairman said they would try to among other things enhance unity by carrying everybody along repackage and rebrand the branch even as members welfare would be taken seriously in addition to commencing disbursement of starter packs to new inductees. Fielding questions from newsmen on housing challenge in the country, Aghaji who submitted that people are financially bankrupt and are facing untold hardship as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, wants more interventions from government to ease the housing problem. “For the government to improve the housing sector, they have to give grants and loans to investors in the sector to beef it up because right now everything is down due to the pandemic, people don’t have cash anymore to run their businesses. “And you cannot harmonise rent in Nigeria because you cannot control what you don’t have, private individuals own these properties,” he noted. In his valedictory speech earlier, the branch’s outgoing chairman, ESV Ebiai who described the new chairman as “a worthy fellow” enjoined the new EXCO and other members to extend the same cooperation he enjoyed that made the milestones achieved possible to the new administration for the branch institution to move forward.