Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, says Social Media were very crucial, useful and indispensable, just as they were disruptive. “In the world of today, the Social Media usage is in vogue, globally , and Nigeria, as well as Kebbi State will not lag behind,” he added. Bagudu spoke on Tuesday, in Birnin Kebbi,while declaring open a one-day, ” Kebbi State Government New Media Consultative Meeting/ Forum at the Presidential Banquet Hall. It was attended by the Governor, the SSG, Babale Umar Yauri, top ranking government officials and the Social Media Practitioners, Bloggers and Online Publishers. The Kebbi Governor said that,the event was organized as part of the efforts by his administration to improve the feedback mechanism, between the government and the electorate . Bagudu said: ” We are here to learn from each other, exchange knowledge and learn about new technologies. ” This will in turn boost good governance , the participation of people in governance and shape the right opinions. ” Also, we will be able to record meaningful progress,shape what can be done by the government, hence, enhance growth and development.” Bagudu further admonished the social media practitioners, bloggers and online publishers to always endeavour to ask questions, disseminate information that is objective, incisive and useful. The Kebbi Governor also underscored the need for them to always be ethical, patriotic and nationalistic, while necessary enquiries and investigations should be done. He pledged to continue to invest more to improve social media practice in the state,adding, ” however, with technology, you need to be imaginative , interested and inquisitive . ” I must however commend you for your sustained efforts to continuously disseminate the activities of the state government, ” You have also been able to inform us wherever we have gone wrong and this is very important fora for any people -oriented governance.” Bagudu stated that,the state government was ready to assist any group that can articulate what they think the government can do for them. Commenting on a recent survey that ranked Kebbi State as one of the five states with least Internally Generated Revenue as asked by one of the participants , Bagudu averred that, the state government focused more on creating meaningful activities in the state, rather than increasing taxes. ” Our logic is to enable the people of the state to make more income , so as to feed their famiies, as well as provide some services like medications and education. ” By doing so, they are complementing the efforts of the state government, which is equivalent to raising the revenue , by increasing taxes .” Bagudu further admitted that, the state government can do better in terms of economic activities . The governor noted that, Kebbi state was abundantly blessed with myriad of natural resources which were yet to be fully explored and exploited. Earlier in his remarks, the Secretary to the state government, Babale Yauri Umar urged the social media practitioners to desist from posting or publishing stories that were capable of causing crises in the society even if such were true. “” It is better not to post stories that can cause tension or crises in the society especially stories that involves ethnic killings . ” Such is capable of not only creating tension but could lead to crises in the society. Instead of posting such stories, confide in the relavant government officials for necessary action”, he advised. The SSG also charged the social media practitioners to feel free and seek for information about the activities and programs of government from relavant government ministries and establishments. The Commissioner of Information, and Culture, Alhaji Mahmud Warra, said that the meeting was expected to sensitise and sharpen the practices of Social Media practitioners as well as up date them on ethics of new media handling globally and locally in the state. “You should learn and avoid libel, character defamation and slander against individual, as well as compliment government in fostering societal development rather than criticisms. ” You should see yourselves as partners in the state architecture and development, ” Warra urged the participants. He lauded the governor for his untireless effort in supporting the Information sector of the state. In the same vein , the Senior Special Assistant to the governor on New Media , Alhaji Aliyu Bandado also commended governor Bagudu for approving the orientation workshop for social media practitioners in the state. He expressed optism that the consultative meeting would go along way in repositioning Social Media practitioners in the state in order to compliment the developmental strides of the government while assuring the governor of their total support to his administration to succeed. Three papers were presented at the occasion on the use of English in New Media, Security Implications of Fake News as well as Effective New Media Use for Promoting Good Governance. The event also featured questions and answers deligently responded by the governor from the participants.