Governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, has suspended 12 traditional rulers in the state who visited the Presidency, Abuja without consultation or approval from the state government, and the leadership of the state’s Traditional Rulers’ Council. The suspension of the tra- ditional rulers was contained in circular titled: “Suspen- sion of 12 Traditional Rulers in Anambra State” and dat- ed Tuesday, August 11, 2020, signed on behalf of the gover- nor by the commissioner for
Local Government, Chieftain- cy and Community Affairs, Mr. Greg Obi. The affected monarchs are Igwe Alex Edozieuno of Mk- punando; Igwe Mark Anthony Okonkwo of Alor; Igwe Chuku- wma Bob Vincent Orji of Ezin- ifite; Igwe Engr G.B.C Mbak- we of Abacha; Igwe Chijioke Nwankwo of Nawfia; Igwe Nke- li Nelly of Igbariam, and Igwe Anthony Onyekwere of Owelle community. Others are Igwe A. N. Onwuneme of Ikenga; Igwe Si- mon Ikechukwu Chidubem of Umumbo; Igwe S. O Uche of Ezira; Igwe Dr Emeka Ilouno of Ifitedunu, and Igwe Peter Ikeg-mbunem Udoji of Eziagulu Otu. The suspension, according to the statement obtained by LEADERSHIP Friday, took effect from Tuesday, August 11, 2020. The circular warned the affected traditional rulers not to parade themselves as traditional rulers, and to desist from discharging their functions as traditional rulers in their respective communities, or anywhere within the state and be- yond with immediate effect.
The circular also revoked the affected traditional rul- ers’ membership of Anambra State Traditional Rulers Coun- cil, and cancelled any appointment they might be holding in government committees until the suspension is lifted. Meanwhile, the suspended Anambra traditional ruler un- der the aegis of concerned tra- ditional rulers, have described their suspension as charade and abuse of power. Addressing newsmen in Abuja, the disgruntled tradi- tional rulers, who were suspended for one year by the state government following the recommendations of the state’s council of traditional rulers led by the Obi of Onitsha , Igwe Achebe, said that they didn’t commit any act to warrant be- ing suspended