President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and state governors have congratulated the president of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina, on his re-election for a second term in office. Buhari, in a statement issued yesterday by his spokesman, Mr. Femi Adesina, said that the news of the victory came during the Council of State meeting, which was attended by former heads of state, Senate president, governors, some ministers, and senior government officials. Adesina said “as secretary to government of the federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, announced the good news, President Buhari led a round of applause, and declared: “He deserves it.” Buhari extended appreciation to the African Union (AU) for its endorsement of the AfDB president much earlier, and to the shareholders of the continental bank who worked tirelessly to ensure the return of the visionary leader. President Buhari believes that Adesina’s versatility, experience at both national and international engagements, will be further deployed to energise the pan-African financial institution, urging him to remain focused and steadfast in pursuing the noble goals of making life better for Africans through various development plans, already captured as “High 5s”. Buhari rejoiced with the family, friends and professional colleagues of Adesina over the re-election, while commending members of staff and Board of Governors of the AfDB for their consistent support for the former Nigerian former minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and his management team. While pledging full support of his government to ensure a successful tenure for the AfDB leadership, Buhari prayed that the Almighty God will continue to strengthen Adesina and his team for the greater good of the continent. In his reaction, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, said that Adesina’s victory unequivocally affirmed the confidence and trust of the shareholders, management and staff of the AfDB in his leadership of the bank and the direction he is taking it. Lawan, in a press statement issued by his media adviser, Ola Awoniyi, he said that the renewal of Adesina’s mandate was an attestation to his excellent performance as president, evident in the bank’s numerous developmental initiatives on the African continent. On his part, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, expressed happiness at the development. In a statement issued by his media adviser, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said that the re-election had provided Adesina with another opportunity to consolidate and sustain AfDB as a global financial force, even as it pushes African development agenda. The chairman, Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) and Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, his Lagos State counterpart, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Ogun State’s Prince Dapo Abiodun among others declared that the re-election of Adesina would spur him to give in his best towards making African continent proud amidst the comity of nations. Fayemi, who hailed Adesina’s return to the plum job, described the victory as, “well deserved.” The AfDB boss, whose re-election was announced by the board of governors of the bank, is billed to resume his new term on September 1. According to Fayemi, “this is great news for all lovers of development. It is a befitting reward for Dr Adesina’s visionary leadership which has increased the growth and influence of the bank these past few years. Governor Sanwo-Olu in a statement issued by his chief press secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said that Adesina’s re-election was a testimony to his hard work, dedication and commitment to the growth and development of the African continent. The governor, who described Adesina as a good ambassador of Nigeria and Africa, said that the AfDB president deserved to be re-elected having distinguished himself during his first term in office as the head of the international organisation. He commended President Buhari and those who played crucial roles in the return of Adesina to the office. He said: “On behalf of my family and the people of Lagos State, I want to congratulate Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina on your re-election as the president of the African Development Bank (AfDB). Your re-election is well-deserved. Having proved yourself as a good administrator and technocrat in different public offices at national and international levels in the last 30 years, I am confident that your re-election will bring more development to the African continent as you supervise the affairs of the bank for another five years.” Also yesterday, Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, declared that the re-election of Adesina as president of AfDB would spur him to give in his best towards making the continent proud amidst the comity of nations. Abiodun, in a statement he issued yesterday in Abeokuta, the state capital, expressed the confidence that Adesina would further make Nigeria proud with his wealth of experience and being a man that is reputed for “exceptional leadership and excellence.” The governor in the statement signed by his chief press secretary (CPS), Kunle Somorin, declared Adesina as a “brand ambassador of Ogun State,” stressing that his emergence to pilot the affairs of the bank unopposed, was “a reaffirmation of the trust, competence on good corporate governance, due process, personal charisma and managerial acumen of one of our own. “I am certain that he will further make Nigeria proud and Africa as a continent will witness tremendous growth in all spheres by his endorsement to lead the continental multilateral agency, again. “Dr Adesina is one world-class public servant and intellectual that puts a human face to the execution of pro-poor strategies that would impact on the development agenda of the continent. I am proud of his re-election and sure that Africa will be better managed now as he has the wherewithal to address the challenges that stare us in the face in the post-COVID era. “I know him to be a selfless person and as an altruistic public intellectual. He is a great thinker and an ideas’ man that the continent needs at this critical juncture in our history. “I am excited that he waded through unscathed and his accusers made to eat the humble pie. His re-election is well-received. Posterity will remember him for his selfless service to Nigeria, Africa and humanity after he would have served out his second tenure at the AfDB”, Governor Abiodun said. Adesina was cleared of controversial corruption charges after facing questions from a panel on the affairs of AfDB in July 2020. An independent panel of experts, headed by former Irish president, Mary Robinson, cleared the beleaguered Ogun genius . 