Warrake rice farmers in Owan East Local Government Area of Edo State have given credit to Governor Godwin Obaseki for the increase in rice production in 2019. The Coordinator of Warrake rice farms, Mr Suleiman Ibrahim disclosed this on Wednesday during the Edo State PDP campaign rally in Warrake Ward 11, Owan East Local Government Area of the State. He commended the State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki for providing the enabling environment for agriculture to thrive during the first tenure of his administration. Suleiman, recalled how the Governor cleared 500 hectares for farming which provided jobs for the youths and women. According to him, “The Governor had cleared 500 hectares for Warrake rice farmers last year. “Each farmer got four hectares. All the rice were produced were conveyed in trailer trucks. “If there is anybody that has impacted our lives, it is Obaseki. We intend to move more than 15 trailers of rice outside. “We took four trucks each from these Communities to Anambra State. By the grace of God, if there are still rains, we will harvest more next year”, he said. Addressing PDP faithful and supporters at the rally, Governor Godwin Obaseki, assured the people to expect more dividend of democracy from his Government. He promised to construct Warrake-Agbede road and urged the voters in the area to re-elect him in Government by voting for the PDP and promised not to depose the confidence the confidence reposed in him. Two PDP leaders from Warrake, Major-General Friday Airende (Rted) and Captain Afekhai Abubakar (Rted), drew the attention of the Governor of challenges facing the Local Government Area and vowed to vote PDP and defend their votes. Airende particularly sought the intervention of the incumbent Governor and the PDP Candidate for the election, Mr. Godwin Obaseki on the power problem that had ravaged economic activities in some parts of the Wards. According to him, five Wards in these Local Government had been thrown into darkness since 2008 since the power sector was privatised by the federal Government. Earlier in remark, the State deputy Governor, Mr Philip Shaibu and his wife, Mrs Mariam Shaibu, urged the electorate not to be scared of war mongers and intimidation by enemies of progress. They urged eligible voters in the locality to come out en masse and exercise their franchise, assuring that adequate security would be provided for the September 19, Governorship election. Mrs Mariam Shaibu thereafter commissioned the reconstructed Local Government Primary Healthcare Centre (PHC) in Aforbakhere – Warrake on behalf of the State Governor. At the royal palace of the Ivbiora, the Enogie of Ivbiodaubi Kingdom, Ogie Sanufu Elabor, pledged the support of Owan East Local Government Council to the incumbent Governor and thanked him for improving their welfare. The Governor promised to allocate more resources to rural areas during his second term if elected. 