At a time when the main political parties in Edo State, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), are focusing on campaigns ahead of the September, 19th governorship election, the battle over the control of the state assembly renewed the supremacy battle between Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and Governor Godwin Obaseki. PATRICK OCHOGA, writes. The penultimate week’s impeachment of the former deputy speaker of the Edo state House of Assembly, Yekini Idiaye, after he declared support for the APC governorship candidate, Ize-Iyamu paved way to the event that preceded in the state assembly. Prior to Idiaye’s impeachment, he was seen as one of the foot soldiers in Akoko-Edo constituency expected to work to ensure Obaseki gets the desired votes in the constituency. His sudden shift in camp and support for Ize-Iyamu was seen by observers as a blow to Obaseki’s camp a few weeks to the September governorship election. The Speaker of assembly, Frank Okiye, had explained that Hon Idiaye was removed because he was planning with the leaders of the APC, including the governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, to “violently take over” the assembly. Hon Idiaye had visited Mr Ize-Iyamu at his private residence in Benin City and promised to support him to win the September election in Edo. Idiaye was quoted to have stated: “There is no reason for me to defect to another party because there is no single project in my village to show under this present administration,” Mr Idiaye told the APC governorship candidate. He stated that he had no reason to join the incumbent Governor in his defection, or to back his re-election bid alleging that the governor has failed to initiate any developmental project in his constituency despite his consistent intervention efforts. The decision by Idiaye 2 other lawmakers to pitch a tent with the opposition APC governorship candidate, obviously swells the ranks of lawmakers loyal to Ize-Iyamu and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to 17 while 7 lawmakers are loyal to the incumbent governor Obaseki. Expectedly, the move was perceived by Obaseki’s ruling PDP as an attempt by the 14 lawmakers to violently take over the Edo state house of assembly by the APC. Obaseki who was on campaign to Edo North had to return back to Benin to take charge of the situation which seems to threaten the stability of his administration. As the fresh crisis over the control of the assembly heightened political tension in the state, 17 of the lawmakers with their numerical strength had converged at an unknown location where their inauguration took place and a new speaker, Rt Hon Victor Edoror, emerged. Edoror, a former speaker, is a die hard loyalist of Adams Oshiomhole. Political observers are of the view that the crisis in the state assembly which has lingered over one year, may affect the political fortune of the PDP especially in the constituency where these lawmakers were voted to represent. They pointed out that they may vent their anger against Obaseki at the poll over his alleged role that shut out the 14 lawmakers regardless of the fact that the governor’s refusal to issue another proclamation letter is purely constitutional. APC, PDP Lock Horns The ruling Peoples Democratic Party had described the action of the newly inaugurated members as capable of creating anarchy in the state, insisting that the lawmakers are not members of the assembly. The state publicity secretary of the party, Chris Nehikhare, in a statement also noted that arguments by those laying claims to the majority are baseless and of no effect. “On August 6, 2020, we watched with disdain a failed attempt by some politicians led by the disgraced former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, and some former members-elect of the Edo State House of Assembly to create anarchy in the state. “We are, however, pleased to see the way Edo people stood against these impostors. By this singular act, our people have shown that never will they hand the state over to godfathers and have demonstrated their commitment to a rebranded new Edo. “We in the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are committed to upholding the rule of law and order. Once again, we say that the 14 men who invaded Benin on August 6 are not members of the Edo State House of Assembly but members-elect, whose seats were validly declared vacant following their refusal to make themselves available for swearing-in upon the proclamation and inauguration of the assembly by Governor Godwin Obaseki. The court affirmed that the Assembly was properly inaugurated. “As at today, the Edo State House of Assembly consists of 10 members, hence the need to remind those saying they constitute majority in the Assembly that their claim is baseless. There is a subsisting action on the matter that was taken to court by the same non-attending now former members-elect and a decision has not been reached. Until the matter is resolved at the court, that these men have applied to, they should not attempt to take laws into their hands. The response of the Edo people to their failed take-over should serve as a constant reminder to them.” “The show put up by these former members-elect under the supervision of Adams Oshiomhole, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and the Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, is at best a comedy of errors. No serious-minded person can take them seriously and they are fully aware that their latest attempt to truncate the peace we currently enjoy in Edo has failed. The business of a House of Assembly is a serious one and cannot be conducted in the private house or property of an individual. “The speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly remains Rt Hon Frank Okiye and he must be accorded the respect he deserves. We call on the police to arrest any person or group of persons who lay claim to that office and parade themselves as members of Edo State House of Assembly outside of the legally recognized 10 members of the house.” But the APC state media campaign council for the Edo Governorship election has accused Governor Godwin Obaseki of personally leading thugs to vandalize the complex of the Edo House of Assembly as part of his bid to enforce the continuation of what it described as an “illegal formation of a partial Assembly.” Reacting to the blockade of the Edo Assembly  by security officials, Mr John Mayaki, the Chairman of the State Media Campaign Council, claimed that the Governor besieged the complex out of fear that his illegal house of just 5 members will be overturned and replaced with a more representative Assembly. According to Mayaki: “The outgoing Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has placed the independence of the legislative arm and the democracy of Edo State on trial. “He has ordered the vandalism ruin and destruction of the Assembly complex under the pretense of a renovation exercise out of fear that his illegally-formed Assembly of just four members will be overturned and replaced with a more representative one. “It should be recalled that the National Assembly ruled that the Assembly formed by Mr Godwin Obaseki last year after abducting some members-elect dead in the night was illegally done and, therefore, is unknown to law. Regardless of this, and loud outcry from the people of Edo State, Mr Godwin Obaseki persisted in the illegality and denied representation to 14 members. “Since then, five more members, led by the Deputy Speaker, Hon Yekini Idiaye, have since renounced the illegal gathering of Mr Godwin Obaseki and maintained their support for the All Progressives Congress. “Out of an Assembly of 24 members, 19 members have backed out of Obaseki’s illegality and declared their support for the APC. Is it not against common logic and all principles of democracy for the Governor to claim to have an Assembly of just 5 members out of the elected 24? “The Governor has created needless panic and fear in the state once again because he is afraid that the 19 members, who represent an overwhelming majority, will set aside his illegality. He has invaded the Assembly complex, and the adjoining Ring Road, with thugs and all manner of people to block the Assembly complex, while also commissioning its destruction, including roof removal to prevent any sitting. “It amounts to Executive recklessness, disregard for the principle of separation of powers, and complete irresponsibility for Mr Godwin Obaseki to insist he must dictate to the House of Assembly on who it must elect as Speaker, more so with just the support of 5 members out of elected 24.” However, as the governorship election is just few weeks away observers are of the view that Obaseki may take full advantage of the power of incumbency and the structure of his new party, the PDP to give the opposition a run for its money, while Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu who enjoys the solid support of the Presidency and leadership of the party across the state maybe an easy ride for the opposition APC. 