As part of its civic responsibilities to the society, the Open Society Initiative of West Africa (OSIWA), a Non-Governmental organization (NGO) has donated a state of the art ambulance to Plateau state government to help in tackling challenges of COVID-19 response. During the presentation of the ambulance to the state governor, Simon Lalong in Abuja, OSIWA Country Director, Udo Jude Ilo said the open society foundation is interested in supporting any community they are located in as a symbol of solidarity. He further said the organization wants to be part of Nigerian solution in tackling the COVID-19 and another way of helping them reach straight to the grass root with their programs around the country. “We are part of the Nigerian story; we also want to be part of the Nigerian solution. This is a way of saying we are with you, we feel what you feel, we want to work with you. We have been working around the COVID pandemic in ensuring that the vulnerable and the marginalized in the society are also able to have a fair chance in the society during this pandemic. “We have to broaden the network of our activities, interacting with states, interfacing with states is also another way of helping us to reach straight to the grass root in our other programming focus around the country. “Some of our work was something as little as some people might look at it, helping people suffering from HIV AIDS to collect their drugs from the hospital during the lockdown because they couldn’t move around and the hospitals didn’t have the facilities to deliver the drugs to them at home. We stepped in through our partners to make sure that they are able to get their drugs every day. “So those little things can actually save lives, being able for instance to translate information about COVID, to people suffering from one disability and are able to access that information, something as little as going to the communities to help them get water to wash their hands. I think every effort counts. Some people could do much more than this but for us, it is our own little way of saying we are with you and we want to make sure that as a people we all come out of this stronger”, Ilo said. In his response, governor Lalong said the ambulance will go a long way to help in collating samples and taking patients from one place to another. He expressed appreciation to the foundation assuring them that the ambulance will be used judiciously. 