The spread of the COVID-19 pandemic had been an eye opener on the lapses in the Nigerian health sector.  The  inadequacies of hospitals,    pharmaceutical industry   as  well  as  the  research  and  development  sector  became  even   more   evident   as   the   search for the cure for the viral infection became intense. Although,  the  world  had  become a global village, every country  had  to  look  inwards  in ensuring that the spread of the virus is contained and the infected finds cure. However, the Nigerian health sector had become comatose and needed funding to  be  revamped  and  become effective. It is estimated that Nigerians spend over $1 billion annually on outbound medical care as they often travel to countries like India, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, United States of America, Thailand, China, Turkey, France, Canada, Germany, Malaysia, Singapore, Egypt and South Africa in search of medical attention. The deficiencies of the country’s healthcare system, no doubt, cut across the primary, secondary and tertiary facilities, considering the dearth on infrastructure, equipment and inadequate personnel to attend to millions of Nigerians. Apart from inadequate infrastructure, equipment and personnel, the country’s pharmaceutical industry also lacks the capacity to produce sufficient drugs for Nigerians which necessitated the importation of drugs from overseas. Shortly after Nigeria recorded some cases of COVID-19 in March this year, the Central Bank of Nigeria had developed a framework to provide financial support for the health sector to aid the fight against Coronavirus in the country. It had introduced the Healthcare Sector Research and Development Intervention Scheme (HSRDIS). The framework for HSRDIS which was released last week will help ensure that funds are channeled into research and development that would see the country being able to produce its own vaccines and drugs and it is to be funded from the Developmental Component of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Fund (MSMEDF). The grant is targeted at helping to strengthen the public healthcare system with innovative financing of research and development (R&D) in new and improved drugs, vaccines and diagnostics of infectious diseases in Nigeria. Specifically, the HSRDIS is designed to trigger intense national R&D activities to develop a Nigerian vaccine, drugs and herbal medicines against the spread of COVID-19 and any other communicable or non-communicable diseases through the provision of grants to biotechnological and pharmaceutical companies, institutions, researchers, and research institutes for the research and development of drugs, herbal medicines and vaccines for the control, prevention and treatment of infectious diseases. The Scheme is intended to boost domestic manufacturing of critical drugs and vaccines to ensure their sustainable domestic supply and reduce the bulk manufacturing costs of the drugs, herbal medicines and vaccines in Nigeria. According to the framework released the scheme would provide grants for R&D in new or revalidation of drug molecule, phytomedicines and vaccines for the control, prevention and treatment of infectious diseases in Nigeria. It would also help in boosting domestic manufacturing of validated drugs, herbal medicines and vaccines for the control, prevention and treatment of infectious diseases in Nigeria and reduce the nation’s dependence on other countries for these drugs and vaccines. This will be dome by supporting capacity of relevant health agencies towards attaining WHO Maturity Level 3, a prerequisite for manufacturing of vaccines in Nigeria. The scheme which allows researchers get as much as N50 million and N500 million for the development and manufacturing activities is also targeted at improving the capacity of the biotechnological and pharmaceutical companies, institutions, researchers, and research institutes in the development of approved Nigerian drugs, herbal medicines and vaccines for infectious diseases. With the current gap between the academia and the producers, the scheme will help in facilitating partnership between academia (researchers, research institutes and universities) and industry into the research and development of drugs, phytomedicines and vaccines for the control, prevention and treatment of infectious diseases in Nigeria. In the long run, the funding of research, development and production of drugs and vaccines in the country will reduce the country’s dependence on imported drug products (synthetic and herbal) and vaccines for the control, prevention and treatment of infectious diseases. Commenting on the HSRDIS, governor of the CBN, Godwin Emefiele said it is to encourage greater research and development in Nigeria of drugs and vaccines that would help prevent the spread of the virus. If we are to wait for foreign countries to develop their own vaccines, we will be the last in the queue to receive curative remedies for our teeming population. The Central Bank of Nigeria today challenges Nigerian scientists at home and in the diaspora to go back to their laboratories and develop a Nigerian vaccine. Once validated by the health authorities, the CBN will step in and do the needful for the sake of over 200 million Nigerians now confronted by COVID-19. Practitioners in the Pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors will be able to access finance at a single-digit rate through this fund,” he said. In a bid to cushion the effects of the pandemic on the Nigerian economy, the CBN has implemented several initiatives such as the provision of N1 trillion facility for firms operating in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. Emefiele noted that “we are also working with financial institutions to enable the continuous flow of credit to viable businesses while putting in place provisions such as moratoriums and restructuring of existing loans under CBN intervention funds that have been provided to businesses.” To access the HSRDIS, applicants have to submit their applications along with relevant documentation of validation from relevant health authorities, trial results, patent registration details and development timetable to the Body of Experts (BoE).