The Edo State Governor and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has assured the electrification of over 14 villages from Obazuwa to Igbanikaka communities in Ovia North East Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, as part of his administration’s efforts to open up rural communities and  boost economic activities across the state. Obaseki gave the assurance while addressing party supporters during his ward-to-ward reelection campaign in Uhiere Ward 7, Ovia North East LGA, on Tuesday. Speaking on behalf of the governor, Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Monday Osaigbovo, said Obaseki has awarded the contract for the connection of the 14 villages which will commence soon. The governor who promised to bring more developmental projects to the area if reelected noted: “This old access road to Uhiere has been redesigned since two years ago. We awarded the contract but due to scarcity of funds I have not been able to do it. But I want to assure you that the road will be done.” He further assured the people that his administration will support the vigilante group in the area to strengthen security so that farmers can return to their farms without fear of herdsmen attack. “I will provide more funds to support the vigilante group to secure the community and ensure our farmers return to their farm land to continue with farming.” Urging the people to come out en masse on September 19, 2020 to vote for the PDP, Obaseki advised: “Stand, watch until the votes are counted; record it and announce it so that everyone will be aware of the results. “We know we will defeat them but they are planning to rig the election. The minority can’t rig the votes of the majority. Come out en masse, vote for PDP and help me complete the work I have started. I know you have electricity problem, but we will address it.” On his part, Chairman of Edo State PDP Campaign Council, Chief Dan Orbih, noted that “Adams Oshiomhole told us a few years ago that Obaseki was the man behind the success of his government. He told us how the man used his knowledge and resources to work for the development of the state. “Obaseki’s former boss (Oshiomhole) gave him a good testimonial due to his contributions to the development of the state but till date, Ize-Iyamu’s former boss Chief Lucky Igbinedion, is yet to speak good of the APC gubernatorial candidate who worked with him as Secretary to State Government. “Oshiomhole has written good testimony about Obaseki but we are yet to hear or see that which Chief Igbinedion wrote about Ize-Iyamu. This election requires us to stand firm and decide our future as no one can decide it for us.”