President Muhammadu Buhari and eminent Nigerians mourned yesterday as the remains of veteran journalist and former managing director/editor-in-chief of the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Alhaji Wada Maida, was laid to rest in Abuja. The remains of Maida, who until his demise was the Board chairman of NAN, was buried at Gudu Cemetery, Apo District, in accordance with Islamic rites. The funeral prayer was led by Imam Rabiu Suleiman amid tears by his family members, friends, associates and Muslim Ummah. The funeral prayer for the deceased was held at the Shagari Jumma’at Mosque in Area 1 Garki, Abuja. In his condolence message, Buhari said he received, with deep sorrow, the news announcing the passing of a close ally, friend and associate, Malam Wada Maida, whose stewardship and loyalty to the President and the country over many years had been with great distinction. President Buhari in a statement by presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu said, “I am profoundly shocked by the sudden death of Malam Wada Maida, my former Press Secretary, a man who possessed one of the highest qualities of professional integrity throughout the course of his journalistic career. “Wada Maida was a very dedicated, hardworking and loyal professional for whom I have the deepest respect and admiration. “The passion with which Maida did his job accounted for his professional success in life, making it possible for him to attain the pinnacle of excellence in his career.” The president said he was joining Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State, members of his cabinet and the family of late Malam Wada Maida in mourning the sad loss, and called for prayers for the state and country as they accept the will of the Almighty God, who determines the fate of everyone. President Buhari also commiserated with staff and management of the NAN where Malam Maida served as Chairman of the Board until his transition, having worked there extensively as European Bureau Chief, based in London, before honouring – the national call as Press Secretary to the Head of State, 1984, and returning to the agency to continue as Editor-In-Chief and Managing Director. The president also sent condolences to the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Nigerian Guild of Editors, Nigerian Institute of Public Relations, International Press Institute, Peoples Daily Newspapers, which Malam Wada established and chaired, and Pan African News Agency (PANA), where the late veteran journalist  played a pioneering role in founding and remained an inspiration for many years. While sympathising with friends and family of the former managing director of NAN, President Buhari said he “believes Malam Wada left a legacy of modesty, loyalty and commitment to the goals of national unity and development that will continue to resonate with everyone who crossed his path.” Also, Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State expressed profound sadness over the death of the renowned journalist and chairman of the Board of NAN. A statement signed by his DG Media, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi, the governor described Alhaji Wada Maida as “a close friend and associate”. Masari added that Nigeria has lost one of its finest citizens who had distinguished himself as an accomplished journalist, newspaper proprietor and administrator per excellence. He added that with Maida’s death, Katsina State has lost one of its most illustrious sons who had served Katsina and Nigeria meritoriously in various capacities, including as spokesman to General Muhammadu Buhari, when he was military Head of State. While condoling President Buhari, the immediate family, friends and associates of the deceased, he prayed to Allah (SWT) to forgive him all his sins and other shortcomings, even as he urged the bereaved to take consolation, not only in the fact that all living souls must taste death, but also that the deceased had lived a fulfilled life worthy of emulation. Similarly, Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, expressed sadness over the demise of the late Wada Maida. The governor, in a condolence message signed by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Ismaila Uba Misili, described the deceased as a forthright and thorough bred media practitioner and administrator who was committed to national cohesion. He said the death of Maida is the departure of a great journalist whose contributions were widely acknowledged both within and outside the country. He added that the late chairman of People’s Daily newspaper was a veteran journalist who mentored a lot of media personalities and impacted positively on the lives of many in the course of his career spanning journalism, public relations and administration. Governor Yahaya extended his heartfelt condolences to the Government and people of the deceased’s home state, Katsina, the management and Staff of people’s daily newspaper as well as the media industry over the great loss, praying Almighty Allah to reward his good deeds with Aljannat Firdaus and grant comfort to those he left behind. Also, Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara, described the late Malam Wada Maida, as an icon whose contribution to the development of journalism in Nigeria will ever be remembered. Matawalle in a condolence statement issued by his director-general on Media, Mr Yusuf Idris said he received with shock, the sudden death of the former chief press secretary to President Buhari when the latter was a military head of state. Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, on his part, said the demise of Malam Wada Maida has created a vacuum in the journalism profession. In a statement issued in Yola by his press secretary, Mr Humwashi Wonosikou, the governor stated that Maida’s death was a great loss to the pen profession. On his part, Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed expressed shock over the death of Maida. Mohammed, who had a stint as a reporter with NAN in the early 1980s, spoke through his senior special assistant on Media, Muktar Gidado, describing the death as a great loss to the people of Katsina State and the country at large. Osun State governor, Gboyega Oyetola, described the death of Malam Wada Maida, as “devastating and a huge loss to his immediate family, NAN family and journalism in Nigeria.’’ Oyetola, in a statement signed by his chief press secretary, Ismail Omipidan said Nigeria has lost one of its finest, credible and veteran journalists. On his part, Sen. Ibrahim Ida, Sardaunan Katsina, who represented Katsina Emirate Council at the burial, described the death of Maida as a colossal loss to the country. Ida added that the deceased would be remembered for his uprightness, honesty and integrity. Also speaking, the minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, said the deceased would be remembered by his friends because he was a great and true friend to many people. Adamu said that late Maida would be remembered for his accomplishments in the journalism profession and the media house that he established. The acting managing director of NAN, Mr Dele Ojo, said the demise of Maida was a great loss to NAN, saying “Wada Maida lived and died for NAN.” The chairman, Editorial Board, Thisday Newspapers, Mr Olusegun Adeniyi, said the deceased was not only an elder in the media profession but was also a fantastic gentleman. In attendance were the minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika; presidential spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu; acting managing director of NAN, Mr Dele Ojo, and former secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Alhaji Yayale Ahmed. Others were Sen. Kabir Barkiya, representing Katsina Central, former EFCC Chairman, Malam Nuhu Ribadu, former FCT Minister, Dr Aliyu Modibbo, former Chairman, Federal Island Revenue Service (FIRS), Kabir Mashi and Alhaji Abba Rimi.  