With a teeming young population of 40 per cent, research has revealed that massive investment in family planning among other interventions will lower
their fertility rates and pregnancies and position them to contribute in growing the Nigeria workforce and economy. By projection and with current fertility rate, the nation’s population will be about double to over 400 Million by 2050, the new Population Data Sheet states. Nigeria’s population are comprised of people under the younger age group than working age group which according to experts, having a very large proportion of young people in a nation’s population structure can present numerous challenges as well as opportunities. Looking at Nigeria’s current status, with fewer births each year and decline in fertility rates among the youthful populace, the country can reap economic gains by increasing the active workforce. More working adults than children, more workers than dependents would present a window of opportunity for accelerated economic development. Experts define this as demographic dividend, however, they said, it is not automatic as there must be strong planning and investments in family planning, education, health, infrastructure and good governance to convert the opportunity to all round economic growth. Economic growth of any country is measured by its Gross Domestic Product (GDP),which is the total monetary or market value of all the finished goods and services produced within the country’s border in a specific time period. As a broad measure of overall domestic production, it functions as a comprehensive scorecard of a given country’s economic health. To this end, for Nigeria to reach its development goals, she must reduce its fertility rate by investing in family planning and child spacing. Reproductive health experts define fertility is a natural capability to produce offspring. When fertility rates in a community increases, more babies are born. Stating some challenges posed by having a huge young population in a forum recently, the Program Officer Reproductive Health and Family Planning, Pathfinder International Nigeria, Yusuf Nuhu said, “Nigeria need to grow more food to feed increased number of population. This raise questions of food security. Other associated challenges to this include nutrition and climate change.
“Without investments and labour policies large number of people will be jobless. This may pose security challenges and breakdown of law and order. There is also the aspect of rural urban migration and stretching of social services beyond their threshold.” Suggesting a way forward, Nuhu said, Nigeria needs to lower its fertility rate in order to slow down population explosion and grow economically through strong family planning programs supported by all stakeholders. Lowering fertility, according to him would enable todays large young population enter adulthood with fewer dependents, adding that, with favourable education, health, labour policies, a larger proportion can be employed and support economic growth. In addition, the reproductive health expert posits that, investment in infrastructure and attracting investments can also help the teeming population gainfully employed. Speaking to stakeholders, Nuhu said, the planning has to be now and continue to be dynamic with emerging issues every day. Leaders need to be challenged to ensure quality education and health care are provided for all, skills acquisition is prioritized, infrastructure optimized and continuous attraction of investment. However, without these, he opines that, todays challenges will be amplified as the number of young people continue to grow and demand for social services continue to increase. In the views of Dr. Sakina Amin-Bello, Senior Programme Advisor, Reproductive Health, Pathfinder International Nigeria said, the high fertility rate in Nigeria, is due to high demand for children as a cultural, traditional, social norm, early marriage; high unmet need for family planning. According to her, all the aforementioned has ill effect on maternal health especially if the births are not adequately spaced, it affects physical, mental and social well-being of women and children. The Reproductive Health expert said, for the children, the risk of mortality in infancy and early childhood is greater for closely spaced births and for the mother, high risk of hemorrhaging and mortality. To curb this, she said, “the higher the contraceptive use, the lower the fertility rate. So, to reduce the high Total Fertility Rate in Nigeria, there is a need to increase uptake of family planning services among women of reproductive age. Reeling out some useful strategies, Amin-Bello said, sustained advocacy to government for funding and enabling policy environment to reduce barriers to family planning access to the barest minimum as well as more demand generation for family planning By reducing the fertility rate of young women through investment in family planning, maternal and child mortality would be lowered. Unarguably, this will boost Nigeria’s labour force with opportunities created for young mothers who have access to contraceptives to control pregnancies and child births, now able to deploy their efforts to economic benefits. Ultimately, this would present further window of opportunity for accelerated economic development and GDP.