A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo, Amb. Bright Obarogie, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and Chairman Caretaker Committee of the party, Alh. Mai Mala Buni, to call the Director General (DG) of the APC Governors’ Forum, Dr Salihu Lukeman to order. Obarogie who made the call in Benin on Friday while fielding questions from newsmen, said from all indication, Lukeman’s intent and purpose is not for the good of the party. The Edo APC chieftain was reacting to the statement credited to the DG that the immediate past National Chairman of the party, Mr Adams Oshiomhole has hijacked the campaign structure of the APC governorship candidate in Edo. He said that Lukeman’s position was not only false, but capable of sending wrong signal to the camps of the other governorship candidates for the September 19 election. Obarogie said what Oshiomhole has succeeded in doing since the commencement of the campaign for the Edo poll, was to have placed the APC in a pole position as the party to beat in the election. He stressed that Oshiomhole has not only added bite to the campaign, but have made all the party faithful to be more united in the quest of taking back the state. According to him, “It beats me hollow how someone will sit in the comfort of his office or home in Abuja and just say whatever he feels like saying about what he knows next to nothing about. “From his (Lukeman) position, one may not be totally wrong to conclude that he is acting as a fifth columnist; especially when one consider the role he played during the crisis that led to the ouster of Oshiomhole as the party’s National Chairman. “Rather than always quick to casting aspersions on Oshiomhole, we expect this same fellow to commend Oshiomhole on the role he is presently playing to ensure victory for the party in September. “The working relationship between Oshiomhole and Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the party’s candidate, and indeed the entire APC campaign team, have never been this smooth; we are all united and working harmoniously to win and win big for our party. “If Lukeman is still disturbed that Oshiomhole was still being loved by his people, the best he can do is to wish him well and not condemn him over his popularity with his people. “Oshiomhole’s popularity is the reason why you see so many unsubstantiated reports and outright blackmail against his person and indeed the party by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “There have been no dissenting voice from the camp of the APC in Edo and one wonder where the DG is getting all this information from. It is either he (Lukeman) join us in the fight to reclaim the state or he stop fighting us with the PDP.” It would be recalled that the APC Governors’ Forum DG had recently in a statement titled: “Which Way, APC?” alleged that Oshiomhole has hijacked Ize-Iyamu’s campaign. He raised the alarm over what he described as the diminishing electoral value of the All Progressives Congress (APC). 