Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in the 2019 governorship election in Ogun State, Senator Buruji Kashamu is dead. He
died after three weeks of battling with complications from COVID-19. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that Senator Kashamu died at the First
Cardiology Hospital, Lagos
after he was rushed there about
a week ago. He represented Ogun East Senatorial District in the Upper Chamber in the 8th National Assembly between 2015 and
2019.Ogun state governor, Prince
Dapo Abiodun while reacting to
the news, expressed shock over
the death of Senator Buruji Kashamu. In a statement released in Abeokuta by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin,
Governor Abiodun described
Kashamu’s passing as one death too many and a devastating blow to the
nation’s political family. Governor Abiodun said: “I received the sad news of the passing of Senator Buruji
Kashamu today, 8 August,
2020, with a deep pain and grief
that words cannot capture. On behalf of my family, the Government and good people of Ogun State, I convey our deepest condolences. “His demise further diminishes the tribe of my close political associates. He
was a large-hearted politician
and courageous fighter for
whatever cause he believed in . “He was not just a loving personality, a generous giver and someone who lived for others, he was to many a beacon of hope of a better tomorrow. This painful exit is much more than the end of an
individual. “Distinguished Senator Kashamu was a phenomenon ,he was faithful to his
principles and convictions and
even his critics woud attest to his tenacity of purpose. “Our brother and friend was a consummate politician and patriot who will be sorely missed within and outside
Ogun State for his larger than life disposition. “Posterity will accord him his due recognition for his legacies of service and forthrightness. He was a worthy Ambassador of Ogun State.” Governor Abiodun, however, urged all to find solace in the saying of Prophet Muhammad (SAW): “Amazing is the affair of the believer, verily all of
his affair is good and this is not for anyone except the believer. If something of good / happiness befalls him he is
grateful and that is good for him. If something of harm befalls him, he is patient and that is good for him” (Saheeh
Muslim #2999