The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has described as “false and indecorous” a twitter post by chairperson of NIPOST Board, Hajiya Maimuna Abubakar in which she claimed that the FIRS appropriated NIPOST’s ideas about stamp duties to the exclusion of the postal service. The FIRS debunked Hajiya Abubakar’s claims in a statement titled, “Re: That Vexed NIPOST Twit by Mrs. Maimuna Abubakar”, issued on Tuesday by Director, Communications and Liaison Department, FIRS, Abdullahi Ismaila Ahmad. Ahmad said the function is clearly contrary to the claim by NIPOST over the administration of stamp duties in Nigeria, stating that the FIRS is the sole agency of government charged with the responsibility of assessing, collecting, and accounting for all tax types including Stamp Duties. “It is therefore shocking to us at the FIRS that such a privileged  young lady who happened to be appointed to high office would throw all caution to the air to cast aspersions on  reputable public institutions like the National Assembly and the FIRS, which she accused of stealing NIPOST idea. This, to say the least, is a preposterous claim and great disservice to the government and people of Nigeria,” he said. Ahmad said the FIRS is determined to not only ensure that all monies “collected by NIPOST into its illegally operated Stamp Duties Account are fully remitted into the Federation Account but also make sure that any kobo not accounted for in that account is legally recovered in line with the charge of President Muhammadu Buhari to the recently inaugurated Inter-ministerial committee on the recovery of stamp duties from 2016 till date.” The FIRS spokesman said the revenue agency is resolute in its resolve to safeguard national interests and not any personal ego or interest. “We therefore call on right-thinking Nigerians to disregard that ill-advised twit by Mrs. Maimuna Abubakar and allied misinformation being disseminated by NIPOST in relation to Stamp Duties collection, which by law is the responsibility of the FIRS,” he added.