The Omega Power Ministries OPM one of the leading Christian denominations in the country has been recognised by the National Council of Women Societies NCWS for it’s humanitarian efforts in the country. The recognition culminated in the issuance of a certificate of membership of the Apex women society signed by the National President Dr. Mrs Gloria Shoda. The certification confers membership of the National Executive Council of the NCWS on the Omega Power Ministries OPM foundation. It should be noted that the Omega Power Ministries OPM has been involved in various humanitarian efforts touching the lives of people mostly women and children. Currently, the ministry runs 16 free schools, two free Specialist hospital and a standard free skill acquisition centre, Free estate and a rehabilitation Centre amongst other numerous projects. The certificate presentation was made at the OPM regional headquarters in Abuja the Federal Capital Territory FCT in presence of over seventy young and vibrant students whom the ministry is sending to Turkey on free overseas scholarship program. It should be noted that the ministry currently has students studying overseas mainly in Turkey, Poland, Canada amongst others under it’s free overseas University programme. Speaking to newsmen the liaison officer of the OPMto the NCWS Barr. Ogbu Francisca thanked God for giving Nigeria a man with the heart of gold like Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere. She said the partnership between OPM and NCWS will ensure that the General Overseer of the Omega Power Ministries OPM Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere is given due recognition for the great humanitarian work he is doing in the country. She said the presentation of the certificate in front of the students who are on their way to Turkey will help motivate them while giving members of the NCWS a first hand experience of the Apostle Chinyere humanitarian touch. She said it is important that the humane man of God continually gets the recognition he deserves for his good works in the country. The Coordinator of the students Mrs. Ada Ezeiruakwu a retired Assistant Director in the Ministry of Defence hailed Apostle Chinyere stressing that it is important that other men of God emulate such mind of giving back to the less privileged from tithes and offerings of it’s members rather than using it for things that will only lead to self aggrandizement. Amongst students travelling for the undergraduate degree programme in Turkey are Miss. Pepple Redemption one of the two sisters who were reported to have been hibernated by their parents since their birth. The both parents later died while fasting for forty days. The sisters lived with the corpse for days before they were discovered by neighbours who never knew they existed in the community. Miss Redemption thanked God for using Apostle Chinyere to wipe away her tears and that of her sister and bringing meaning to their life. She also thanked members of the church whose tithes and offerings have contributed to the great life changing work going on in the ministry. Other students who spoke to newsmen at the event include Okoro Emeka who was rescued from juvenile detention by the G. O after a long period without help, Ifeanyichukwu Bright son of one of the Ikokwu four and Nwibari Blessing Pueba. They all praised the philanthropy of Apostle Chinyere which has seen to the elevation of people from less privileged homes.