Kaduna State Government has commended the paramount ruler of Atyap Chiefdom in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area, His Highness, Dominic Gambo Yahaya for embarking on various initiatives towards uniting the diverse ethnic and religious groups in his domain. Deputy Governor, Dr. Hadiza Sbuwa Balarabe, expressed this during a visit to the traditional ruler in his palace, following a peace summit held on Saturday 22nd August which commits the diverse groups in the chiefdom to build peace and harmony in the area. The peace agreement came as part of his effort at ending the spate of violent crisis the engulfed his chiefdom between 11th June to August, which led to loss of lives and properties. Outcome of the Peace Summit, co-chaired by AVM Ishaya Aboi Shekari and Dr. Salim Musa Umar, was the adoption of 13 resolutions by the representatives of the Hausa, Fulani and Atyap communities committing themselves to dialogue towards building peace, unity and harmony among themselves. Dr. Hadiza, who was accompanied by senior officials of the state government, said the Kaduna State Government was delighted to see the commitment of the people towards peace and the efforts of His Highness in initiating the process. The Deputy Governor also condoled the traditional ruler and his people over what she described as needless killings and destructions of properties, which she said hampers development and progress. She however called on all traditional rulers at all levels in the state to emulate the traditional ruler of Atyap by initiating dialogue in their domains to bring all their subjects together. “Your Highness, when this peace agreement surfaced, we heard about what you have been doing up to the time that you signed that peace agreement, it was something that gladdened our hearts. For me this is just the beginning and am sure that all other traditional leaders everywhere are already thinking of how to do this. This peace initiative started needs to be sustained so that we will consolidate and make progress. “I want to call on all traditional rulers at every level to learn from what has happened here and initiate this kind of process because we need to come together and break down those walls and have longer tables so that we can talk to ourselves so that we can understand that our diversity should be the source of our strength and the point where we converge. Responding, the Chairman of Atyap Traditional Council, His Highness Dominic Gambo Yahaya, noted that the peace agreement signed between the Hausa, Fulani and Atyap communities was the first step, and all parties concerned need to work harder to actualize it and make their subjects own it as their documents for the peace and progress of the chiefdom. Yahaya said there is the need for the state government to support the traditional institutions in the southern part of the state to mobilise and start holding this kind of dialogue and efforts towards peace building.