Winners have continued to emerge at the ongoing Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies Promo Season two, thereby, cushioning the effects and impact of COVID-19 on businesses and families. As businesses struggle to stage a comeback after the coronavirus pandemic induced lull, 15 more artisans in Ogun and Kwara states have at the weekend joined the millionaires club courtesy of Dangote Cement Bag of Goodies Promo Season two. The N1 million winners, mostly artisans and building material dealers whose businesses have suffered the down side in the wake of the pandemic were full of praises to Alhaji Aliko Dangote saying the money would go a long way in resuscitating their businesses. This brings to 80 the number of people who have so far won a million naira in the “Spell Dangote and Win a Million Naira” promo designed specifically to help Dangote Cement consumers to quickly overcome the effects of the COVID-19 disease by rewarding them with cash prizes. The company had during the launch of the promo last month explained that the N1 million wining prize was a form of palliative in which 1,000 people would benefit from, as people and businesses strive to stay afloat The director of marketing of the company, Mrs Funmi Sanni, explained that the promo was deliberately designed to serve to cushioning the negative effects and impact of COVID-19 on businesses and families. In Ilorin and Abeokuta, the winners took to dancing as they received credit alert shortly after being presented with their symbolic cheques. Mrs Sanni expressed appreciation to the winners for their loyalty to the Dangote Cement brand. She stated more than 80 people have won a million naira and that the management expects many more in the coming weeks across the nation because 1,000 of them have been earmarked to win a million Naira. According to her, the Bag of Goodies Season two is the biggest promo ever in the country because at the end of the promo a total sum of N1 billion cash would have been won by the consumers of Dangote Cement across the country. Sanni who was at Ilorin but was represented in Abeokuta during the cheque presentation noted that the promotion was to encourage the customers to continue patronising the product, which according to her, is the best in the country. She said the company had been making efforts to satisfy its teeming customers to the fullest, adding that apart from the premium quality of the product, the firm has also introduced several customer-driven promotional offers in order to keep their relationship intact. According to her, a customer could only win the N1 million cash prize on collection of the scratch cards that each carries letter D, A, N, G, O, T and E to make up the name DANGOTE. She added that other prizes to be won include motorbikes, tricycles, TV sets, recharge cards, among other prizes in the promotion that will end on November 5, 2020. In his own remark, national sales director, Dangote Cement, Mr Yemi Fajobi, described the promo as a reflection of Alhaji Aliko Dangote’s generosity and his desire to enrich as many people as he could. According to him, “Dangote Cement Company deemed it fit to continue with the second phase of the promo, tagged Bag of Goodies two in order to give back to the People especially at this time, to cushion the effects of the pandemic. “Despite the effects of COVID-19 on global economy, Dangote Cement Company has decided to go ahead with the Bag of Goodies promo in order to give back to the People. We all know what is happening globally, this promo is like a palliative to our teeming customers who have suffered economic hardship, occasioned by the pandemic. “We feel that despite the pandemic, it is worthy to put a smile on the face of our teeming customers across the country. People have been forced to stay at home, businesses have been forced to shut down. Nothing could assuage the peoples feeling other than money. This is why the promo is running at this time.” Several of the winners were full of gratitude to the company for putting in place such promo at this point in time saying the money they won would make a good impact in their lives as the COVID-19 pandemic has distorted the economy of families and the nation. One of the leading distributors in Abeokuta, the CEO of Royal Gate Commercial Limited, Mr Femi Alabi, thanked Dangote cement for the gesture saying “One million Naira is a big deal in the lives of the people. Many people after the pandemic broke out could not boast of N5000 in their account, here they are being rewarded with a whooping N1 million.” Also, chief commercial officer, Dangote Group, Mr Rabiu Umar, recently said following the negative impact of COVID-19 on the economy, Dangote Cement decided to award the total of N1 billion to 1,000 winners across the country.  According to him, Dangote Cement Company decided to continue with the second phase of the promo, tagged Bag of Goodies two in order to give back to the society to cushion the effects of the pandemic. Umar noted that the promo was like palliative to the teeming customers in the wake of the pandemic as most of them had suffered economic hardship caused by the coronavirus. “Despite the effects of COVID-19 on global economy, Dangote Cement Company has decided to go ahead with the Bag of Goodies promo in order to give back to the society. This promo is like a palliative to our teeming customers who have suffered economic hardship, occasioned by the pandemic. Therefore, this would at least cushion the effects of the pandemic.  We feel that despite the pandemic, it is worthy to put a smile on the face of our teeming customers across the country. I am sure we have achieved our aim in this round of the promo,” he said. Dangote Cement is Africa’s leading cement producer with a production capacity of 45.6 million tonnes per year across 10 countries in sub-Sahara Africa. The company has integrated factories in seven countries, a clinker grinding plant in Cameroon and import and distribution facilities for bulk cement in Ghana and Sierra Leone. Together, these operations make the company the largest cement producer in Sub-Saharan Africa. 