Due to agitations in some parts of the country particularly, in the South East coupled with killings in Southern Kaduna, a US based businessman, Ugoeze Frank Elendu Uwakwe has called for a referendum to enable those who not happy to decide their fate in the country. According to Elendu Uwakwe, there is urgent need for the federal government to dialogue with the people so as to solve the problem holistically. The business magnate who stated this in a video that went viral recently, stated that the government needs to see reasons, to either dialogue or free those that feel oppressed in the country. The businessman who is also the President of KCIGlobal.org declared his support for Nnamdi Kanu, even as he blows hot from California in a live video conference tagged “I am in my home”. One of the highlights of the video is the acceptance of the fact that, the Mazi Nnamdi Kanu should be respected by every true sons of Igbo who has conscience. He lamented that most prominent Igbos have continued to shy away from the truth, out of cowardice or personal gains while Kanu had remained the only fearless man speaking the truth, no matter the consequences. Adding that, this is the time to lend voice to the plight of Ndigbo, he advised the Nigerian government to either reason with them or give them referendum to decide their fate and exercise their free spirit. Speaking further, he called on prominent Igbo sons and daughters, to as a matter of urgency reach out and engage the government in a constructive discussion with Ndigbo on their fate, through Nnamdi Kanu or simply give them opportunity to exercise their right to existence through referendum. He called on the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, Oni of Ife,, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunnusi, Senator Enyinaya Abaribe Chief Arthur Eze and other strong voices from the South to come together to liberate the region. Elendu Uwakwe also disclosed his plans to donate $10,000 for the registration of a body to champion the liberation of Africans and put a stop to all forms of killings against Christians in Southern Kaduna and any other part of Africa. According to him, religion should not be basis of judgement for who lives or dies; rather religion should be for progress and growth. “You must grow and prosper in what you believe and allow others to grow and proper in what they believe in”, he said. Putting the blame on himself and other prominent Igbo sons for living in opulence while others die in poverty and penury, he announced a plan to start employing youths that will be paid monthly from his California Office in a bid to start alleviating their pains while calling on wealthy Igbos to follow suit because this is time to act or be judged negatively by posterity. In the same vein, Elendu Uwakwe revealed his efforts at showcasing the genocide attempt of 1970 to the world and a call for it to be declared as such in the US, which is already on top gear, while at the same time advocating that the world should stop keeping silent at the ethnic, religious cleansing going on in Southern Kaduna. Calling on the mainstream media, he expressed readiness to work with them in this lofty task of librating Nigerians as abating evil will not do them any good. He also stated that his doors are open for discussions with the people that matters, as there is no going back on this movement that has started.