The Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC), said that in addition to the card reader authentication, it is going to deploy another innovation called the “Zip with Z-file”. National chairman of INEC, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, made the disclosure in Benin City, capital of Edo State, while addressing staff of the commission.
He explained that the “Zip with Z-file”, is a tablet with a camera, which, at the end of voting and sorting out of ballots, will take a picture and transmit same to a dedicated portal for everyone to view the polling unit results live and direct. His words: “The Z-file is a tablet with camera that captures the entire voting exercise in every polling unit. It functions in such a way that at the end of the process after voting has been concluded and sorted out, the ballots counted, the picture of the form ECFA would be taken and transmitted to a dedicated porter, so that Nigerians can view the polling unit results
live and direct by those close to the polling units.” He said the innovation was deployed at the Nasarawa State Central Federal Constituency by-election, that before the declaration of results, Nigerians were able to view the few clean results of the polling units. “Our concern is the integrity and transparency of the process. The choice of who became the governor of Edo State is entirely in the hands of Edo people, and we are going to protect the process,” he said, stressing the importance
of opening the polling unit early, because the period of election has been adjusted in compliance with the COVID-19 protocols. “We have adjusted the opening time from 8am to 8:30am; and the closing time from 2pm to 2:30pm. I am confidence you will not let the commission down,” Yakubu said. “We were here four years ago and the lesson we learnt is that we must be able to speed the process and declare the result on time, because the longer it takes the more it becomes problematic to
manage. So we must get logistics right,” he said. Addressing the policy of conducting election under the COVID-19 pandemic, Yakubu said the commission has made the wearing of mask and the use of hand sanitizers compulsory, even as it has made provision for them. Additionally, he said: “Request had been made to the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 to avail the commission about 3,000 infrared thermometers for polling units and voting points.