Following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, protocols, guidelines, precautions and innovations were introduced as preventive measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Several countries adopted the use of disinfectant tunnels alongside WHO’s prescribed preventive measures like regular washing of hands, maintaining proper hygiene, maintaining physical distance, wearing of face mask, and other personal protective equipment (PPE). The disinfectant chamber is used interchangeably as either disinfectant or sanitation tunnel and is also referred to as booth, channel, gate etc. The earliest use of disinfectant tunnel  as preventive measure against COVID-19 was reported in China sometime in February 2020. Apart from China, other countries have adopted the use of disinfectant tunnels in the fight against COVID-19 globally. They include India, Malaysia, Scotland, Albania, Argentina, Colombia, Singapore, Pakistan, France, Vietnam, Bosnia and Herzegovia, Chile, Mexico, Sri Lanka and Indonesia with Nigeria not left out. Disinfection tunnels that many countries, including Nigeria, are setting up to spray disinfectant on people as they enter certain premises have become a common sight in the COVID-19 era. The idea is for people to walk through these tunnels or chambers and be disinfected to reduce the risk of them spreading COVID-19. The World Health Organization (WHO) recently issued an interim advice against the use of disinfectant tunnels in a report in May 15, 2020, saying it could be physically and psychologically harmful and would not reduce an infected person’s ability to spread the virus through droplets or contact. Expectedly, the world health body’s pronouncement has sparked a debate globally on the efficacy or otherwise of the use of safety tunnels in the control of COVID-19 globally. The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), one of the numerous safety disinfectant tunnel users in collaboration with the Nigerian Defence Academy and Premium Times recently held a partly virtual and physical colloquium in Abuja to x-ray the divergent opinions on measures adopted by relevant authorities to curb the spread of the coronavirus in the country. The JAMB registrar, Ishaq Oloyede, in his opening remarks, noted that disinfectant booths have become a common sight in public buildings, whereby chemical is sprayed or showered on human skin each time one passes through the booth. He said the board decided to organize the event to allay doubts and fears as it prepares its centres for its annual examination. Speaking on ‘The effectiveness and appropriateness of disinfectant tunnels for combating the spread of COVID-19’, the executive vice chairman of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI), Prof. Mohammed SaniHaruna, said results had indicated that disinfection is of utmost importance in the prevention and control of the coronavirus pandemic. He said the adoption of disinfection tunnels for preventing COVID-19 was therefore necessary. He noted that the measure was first started in Wuhan, China, the birthplace of the virus, and was very pivotal in the success recorded by the Asian country against the contagion. Haruna said the use of disinfectant and fumigation was one of the main measures used in flattening the curve in China where it was first adopted. The NASENI helmsman, who heads the research agency with many disinfectant tunnels under its name, such as the NASENI-Safety Tunnel ‘O’ Shape (NASENI-STO), NASENI-Safety Tunnel ‘Ո’ Shape (NASENI-STՈ), and NASENI – Single Disinfectant Chamber (NASENI-SDC), all sourced locally, said disinfection tunnels do not cure the disease but they are very useful in preventing the disease, adding ‘prevention is better than cure.’ He explained that debate and doubts about disinfectant booths were ignited by the May 15 guideline issued by the WHO. The NASENI boss said the WHO guideline did not say that the use of disinfectant booths was ineffective, but it was more concerned with the toxicity of chemicals used. “The NCDC does not allow the spraying of humans. It’s wrong to discard the use of disinfection completely,” he contended. He stressed that the importance of the use of disinfection booths lay in the fact that the tunnels are multi-purposeful as they check the temperature as well as disinfect. While no common ground was reached on this debate, participants agreed that measures being taken in preventing COVID-19 are still evolving and should be applied with caution. The president of the Nigerian Academy of Science, Sunday Bwala, who was a co-moderator of the event said even if there are lapses in the national responses, “it behooves on us as Nigerians to take precaution seriously and make personal decisions on how to protect ourselves from getting infected.” His co-moderator, Frank Egbokhare, counselled on the need to follow the science in the fight against the disease. He argued that Nigeria has not done enough in awareness creation, and in disseminating the right information about the virus. “What has spread more is fear, misinformation, and anxiety. Until we strengthen the appropriate communication channels, it will be difficult to follow the science,” he added. 