The Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) has raised the alarm over recent re-examination of already cleared cargoes from the seaport by officers of the Nigeria Police. Speaking to LEADERSHIP yesterday at the official presentation of vehicles and motorcycles to members of the association’s task force to check revenue leakages and corruption in the maritime sector, the vice president of ANLCA, Kayode Farinto said the seaport police command of the force still re-examine  cargoes released by the Nigeria Customs Service. Farinto who said that the Inspector General of Police had earlier warned against police officers intercepting and re-examining already cleared cargoes accused the command of disobeying order of the police boss. Noting that it was against international best practices, he said, “The port police are now stopping cargo as against the initial directive of Inspector General of police. And the problem is that everybody want to be arrest containers. There was a particular letter signed by the IGP that on no condition must the police stop the delivery of cargo in our port. “It was stopped for some time, but we noticed that since Friday they have started again, we will not rest until we achieve our desired result. Speaking on the task force set up to restore normalcy to port operation, Farinto, said the efforts already put in place by the taskforce will send signal to those who are in the practice of supporting illegality in the sector. The ANLCA national vice president explained that the modus operandi of the task force had been handed over to the task force, adding that the association will support them to succeed. According to him, “I want to commend the zone for this laudable project, the licensed customs agents have been erroneously blackmailed and given different names as if we are the bad eggs of the society and I do know that it takes two to tangle but with this your effort it will send signal to whoever is into bad practices in the industry. Speaking also at the event, the Western Zonal Coordinator of the task force Sir, John Offobike said the association will work day and night to make sure government policies are being implemented. He said the operation covers Lagos down to Seme and Idiroko.