A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Kingsley Wenenda Wali, has endorsed the decision of the Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike-led administration to embarked on massive construction of flyovers in Port Harcourt. The Rivers State government recently embarked on the construction of flyovers at Garrison Junction, Artillery Junction, GRA Junction, all along Port Harcourt-Aba Road and Rumuokoro Junction along Ikwerre Road, as well as the expansion of the Rumuola Flyover. Wali, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP Weekend in Port Harcourt, said the new flyovers and dualization of majors roads in the state capital, will solve the problems the Monorail was intended to solve. He insisted that the flyover projects will not be useful to only indigenes of Rivers State but for all Nigerians working and doing business in the state and urged the state government to consider the construction of the Trans-Kalabari Road in order to write it’s name in the history of the state. Wali, who is also the Convener of Unity House Foundation (UHF) said: “Let me start by saying that those who condemn the bridges embarked on by the Wike administration, are at best talking politics, but largely talking ignorant nonsense. You input tribal instincts because you are ignorant of how cities are developed. “I am still trying to understand how Artillery flyover directly benefits an Akpor man from Ikwerre South-West, more than an Ibadan man, who works with Shell and lives at the Shell Camp or how an Iriebe man, is better off with the Rumuokoro flyover, more than all the people traveling to Ahoada, Elele, Owerri and even Ubima from Port Harcourt? “I guess it’s a case of the proverbial chicken coming home to roost, for those who refuse to see the wisdom in the suspended Monorail project. A rational conclusion is that Governor Wike is trying to partially solve the problem the Monorail was intended to solve. “Port Harcourt is growing into other local government areas and only quality good network of roads and bridges will make that possible. Lagos State did not jump from Lagos Island to Lekki. Rather, Ozumba Mbadiwe road prepared the ground for the development of Lekki. The Lekki-Epe Expressway has carried development from Victoria Island to Badore and steadily to Epe. “I wholeheartedly endorse the bridges anf flyovers being constructed by this government and it’s not my business if any motive, beyond altruistic benefits is inputed. A careful analysis of the Wike era, will come to the conclusion that these bridges are indeed the real legacies of this government. With time, the other washerman projects, will evaporate into thin air. “However, if this government is interested in her place in history, then it must start the Trans Kalabari Highway. It mustn’t finish it, but it must pursue its commencement with the same vigor it has used to pursue the Port Harcourt Flyovers. “Tokenist conversations over this project will not only be unfair but wicked & disservice to Rivers people. The romantic Rivers Ring Road Project can be embarked on by the next administration as its own signature or legacy project.”