The President, Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria (REDAN), Alhaji Aliyu Oroji Wamakko has assured of its readiness to hold talks with governments at all levels on ways to resolve the over 17 million housing deficit across the nation. This is even as he pleaded with the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele to fulfil his earlier promise that the bank would provide palliative to support housing construction in order to create employment and revitalise the economy. According to him, “We are sure of creating thousands of jobs through housing construction because direct building of houses shouldn’t be the prerogative of the government; rather they should provide an enabling environment and favourable policies for the private sector to execute such projects”. He commended the efforts of President Muhammad Buhari over the appointment of a management team that would coordinate the affairs of Federal Housing Authority (FHA).
President Buhari had last week announced the appointment of Sen. Gbenga Ashafa and Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin as managing director and executive director, Business
Development of FHA respectively. In a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja yesterday, Wamakko noted that the appointment is an indication of the present administration’s commitment towards the delivery of affordable housing to Nigerians. The REDAN president hinted that given the appointees vast experience in law making, that they would unveil robust policies that would enhance the delivery of affordable housing nationwide. While commending FHA for registering as a member of REDAN since 2004, he emphasised that the Authority had partnered with REDAN on public and private sector-driven housing construction. He added, “We are excited that PMB has entrusted the appointees the responsibilities of driving the delivery of affordable housing to Nigerians based on the recommendation of the federal government’s Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) initiated in response to the economic challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic”. Wamakko disclosed that the appointment was timely due to the urgent need to revamp the economy through the housing sector, so as to cripple the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. He also congratulated the chairman of the Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) committee, vice president Yemi Osinbajo for calling on the private sector to participate fully in the federal government’s economic recovery programme.