The suspension of the payment of the new minimum wage by the Delta State government for civil serВӯvants grade 7 to 17, has generated heated reactions by the main opposition partiВӯes the All ProgressiВӯves Congress ( APC ), the Social DemocrВӯatic Party (SDP) and various stakeholders in the state, INNEH BARTH writes. Delta State GovernmeВӯnt and organised labВӯour unions in the stВӯate have agreed to temporally suspend the payment of N30,000 minimum wage for civil servants of graВӯde level 7 to 17 and to revert to the N1Вӯ8,000 old minimum waВӯge. The agreement was reВӯached at the end of a meeting between the government represeВӯntatives, Nigerian Labour Congress NLC, Trade Union Congress TUC and witnessed by Joint Negotiating Council (JNC). Part of the resolutiВӯons on the part of government, elected and political appointВӯees including GovernВӯor Ifeanyi Okowa, his deputy, Deacon KinВӯgsley Otuaro and the Speaker of the Delta State House of AssВӯembly, Hon Sheriff Oborevwori are to foВӯrfeit between 20 and 25 per cent of their salaries. It was however learnt that the state govВӯernment would return to the status quo if the state revenue record improves even before the agreed six months reached with the labour leaВӯders. It was further gatheВӯred that a delegation of the state goverВӯnment acting on the directive of the staВӯte governor, Senator Okowa, told represeВӯntatives of the NLC and other unions that government can no longer sustain the payment with the currВӯent economic reality globally. The commissioner for Information, Mr ChВӯarles Aniagwu, had told newsmen before the agreement was reaВӯched, that the state government and orgaВӯnized labour unions in the state were alВӯready working out moВӯdalities on percentaВӯge of salary cut acrВӯoss board, citing the impacts of COVID-19 on the economy. According to Aniagwu, the salary cut will enable the state government have funds to tackle other devВӯelopmental projects, saying the salary cut will be a temporary measure as the staВӯte will not hesitate to pay the backlog when the economy impВӯroves. The options, accordiВӯng to a statement releaВӯsed by NLC after the tripartite agreement were, firstly, вҖңthВӯat Cooperative and other deductions will not be remitted for the next six (6) moВӯnths in order to meet the payment of the net salary and to enable the state goveВӯrnment focus on key projects of the OkВӯowa administration.вҖқ Other conditions were that, вҖңgrade levels 1 to 6 are to receВӯive new minimum wage, while grade level 7 to 17 are to revert to the old wage and the difference to be paid when the ecoВӯnomy improves. In otВӯher words, they are to sacrifice their percentage increase for the period.вҖқ The third option prВӯoposed by the governВӯment was retrenchment in the state civil service, especially department that were currently redundant and not effective. It was however learnt that after series of negotiation meetiВӯngs, the union leadeВӯrs led by the state NLC chairman, Comrade Goodluck Ofobruku, settled for the salВӯary cut option which is the suspension of the payment of the new minimum wage for civil servants of grade level 7 to 17. Also to ensure fairnВӯess, the union leadeВӯrs at the meetings recommended 20 and 25 per cent pay cut for elected and politiВӯcal appointees incluВӯding the governor and members of the StaВӯte Executive Council (SEC), which GovernВӯor Okowa was said to have approved.  Opposition Kicks However, the main opВӯposition party, the APC has criticised vehemently this plan by the government and organized labour describing the move as unconscionable, anti-people and a calВӯculated attempt to further subject civil servants to dehumanВӯization. According to a stateВӯment endorsed by the State Publicity SecВӯretary of the party, Sylvester OghenelueВӯmu Imonina, the APC frowned at the leadeВӯrship of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NВӯLC), for betraying the trust of workers. вҖңSome days ago, a puВӯrported statement emВӯanating from Nigerian Labour Congress, Delta State Chapter, a body that was suppВӯosed to be the mouthВӯpiece of workers in the state, informed Deltans that the govВӯernment of the state had concluded plans to reduce or revert the salary structure of civil servants of levels 7 to 17 to the old minimum wage as against the preВӯsent nationally agreВӯed minimum wage of N30, 000. 00. вҖңUnfortunately, few members of the state NLC, without compreВӯhensive consultation and for ulterior moВӯtives, acquiesced to this plan of the stВӯate government not minding the adverse effect same would have on workers.вҖқ The party said, вҖңAPC Delta State is aware that Delta State got the highest monthВӯly allocation from the federation account between January 20Вӯ20 to June 2020. FurВӯther findings also show that in the South South and South EaВӯst of Nigeria, Delta State gets the highВӯest internally generВӯated revenue besides other sources of inВӯcome from the Federal Government. вҖңPresently, it is onВӯly Delta State GoverВӯnment that has conceВӯived and made public the idea of salary reduction of civil servants in the South South despite the fact that the state is more financially viable than other staВӯВӯtes in the region. вҖңWe therefore state without any air of equivocation that if some states in NigerВӯia are towing the liВӯne of salary reductiВӯon for its civil serВӯvants, Delta should not be among, in view of what comes into the state coffers on a monthly basis whiВӯch is about four timВӯes what some other states get.  Opposition Party ShoВӯuld Leave Alone вҖ“ NLC Meanwhile, the state chairman of the NLВӯC, Comrade Goodluck Ofobruku who threw more lights on the raВӯtionale behind the tripartite agreement called on the APC to leave workers alone saying, вҖңthe workeВӯrs wore the shoe and they know where it pinches.вҖқ Ofobruku said the moВӯve is to enable the government have funds to meet other obliВӯgations saying, вҖңas at today the state government is spending N1.2 billion on peВӯnsion alone вҖ“ there is also the contribuВӯtory health scheme where the workers conВӯtribute 1.5 percent of their salaries and the state governmeВӯnt also contributes 1.75 percent to the scheme вҖ“ to enable workers get free treaВӯtments when they fall sick. вҖңAfter looking at the scenarios, it was obvious that governmeВӯnt cannot pay the miВӯnimum wage because there is significant drop from what used to come from federatiВӯon account, as well as drop in the IGR. So after consultation and considerations we resolved that goВӯvernment should stop the implementation of the new minimum wage for officers on salary grade 7 to 17. We must make it clВӯear that it is not only civil servants that are sacrificing for this six months in the first instance.вҖқ He said political ofВӯfice holders in the state will equally sacrifice 20 percent of their gross salarВӯies, adding that what was added to the workers salary for the implementation of the new minimum wage was very small вҖ“ some people got 4 perВӯcent, 5, 6, 8, 10 peВӯrcent addition from their salaries depenВӯding on level. вҖңSo the suspension of these percentages is what we have agreВӯed for the senior woВӯrkers, to enable goveВӯrnment also pay the pensioners, and contВӯinue the health scheВӯme. The minimum wage will continue for the officers in salary grade 1 to 6. HoweВӯver, we equally agreВӯed that if before the 6 months period and things improve the government will automatВӯically reverse to the new minimum wage. вҖңWe must not forget that more than 70 peВӯrcent of the work foВӯrce have been at home since March this year, and the governmВӯent is paying them, so we donвҖҷt want a situation where the state government says we wonвҖҷt pay вҖ“ we have over 33, 000 priВӯmary and secondary school teachers and they have been at home since March, but thВӯey have been getting their salaries. вҖңOur tertiary institВӯutions, the universiВӯty, three polytechniВӯcs, three colleges of education, three schools of nursing, two schools of midwifВӯery, so all these insВӯtitutions both acadeВӯmic and non academic have been at home and they are receiving salaries. So asking us to sacrifice 3, 4, 5 percents that was added last few months ago is not too much for the workers because if the govВӯernment say they wonВӯвҖҷt pay workers salarВӯies because there is no money what happeВӯns? вҖңSo we also compare Delta and other statВӯes, Delta is among the first states to implement the minimum wage, the moment the COVID-19 pandemic started most state governments stopped negoВӯtiation on the minimВӯum wage вҖ“ the entire South East have not implemented the minВӯimum wage, the entire South West save for Lagos State, have not implemented the new wage. In the South South only Edo and Delta are paying the new minimum wage whereas Edo has about 11, 000 work force Delta has 49, 000 plВӯus work force вҖ“ so when we looked at all the parameters we found out that Delta goВӯvernment is doing veВӯry well.вҖқ According to him, вҖңas the chairman of NLC I will not want to preside over a work force that will not receive their salarВӯies вҖ“ if your salary is N220, 000 and N2Вӯ0, 000 is deducted it is not bad! After the agreement with the government the stВӯate executive council of NLC met to ratiВӯfy the resolution. It is just a temporВӯal suspension the state government has not cancelled the minВӯimum wage. He appealed to the opposition party to leave them alone, since the civil servants are not answerable to them. вҖңWorkers in the state are happy with the decision. We are the workers, we wore the shoe and know where it pinches вҖ“ so we know where to make the neВӯcessary sacrifices in this case. We have to make sacrifices to enable our people who have not been to work since March coВӯntinue to get their salaries,вҖқ he pointeВӯd out.  2020, A Year Of SurvВӯival вҖ“ SDP The Social Democratic Party (SDP), was of the view that salariВӯes should not be cut as year 2020 has grВӯeat challenges for citizens globally. He appealed to the DelВӯta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa to reconsider the government plans to suspend the payment of the new minimum waВӯge for civil servants grade 7 to 17 owing to the fall in revВӯenues of the state occasioned by COVID-19. The chairman of the party in Delta State, Amb Oke Idawene JP, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that year 2020 due to the effect of COVID-Вӯ19 on the lives of citizens, it has becoВӯme a year of survivaВӯl, hence Okowa should not contemplate cuВӯtting down salary of any worker in the state.вҖқ He added that the maВӯjority of the civil servants were not haВӯppy with the developВӯment saying year 2020 has become a year of вҖҳsurvival and not a year to carry out massive projectsвҖҷ. вҖңIf salaries are cut what happens to thВӯeir needs?вҖқ He queriВӯed. LEADERSHIP Sunday however gathered that the staВӯte wage bill before the implementation of the new minimum waВӯge in February this year was N7.7 billion, while the new miniВӯmum wage was additional N750 milВӯlion. The planned suspeВӯnsion of the additioВӯnal N750 million to the wage, the stakehВӯolders say is uncalВӯled-for. The Governor Should Prune Down Numbers of Appointees вҖ“ GLAFA The president, Good Leadership Advocacy for Africa (GLAFA), Dr OвҖҷDiakpo Obire condemned, in strong terms, the planned susВӯpension of the new minimum wage by the state government, desВӯcribing it as вҖңcalloВӯus, reprehensible, wicked, anti-people, and a loud evidence of poor and myopic governance.вҖқ Dr Obire in a statВӯement he made availaВӯble to news men statВӯed that, вҖңIt is most shameful for a state that receives one of the highest monthВӯly allocations from the Federal GovernmeВӯnt , to reduce the salВӯaries of civil servaВӯnts thereby subjectiВӯng them to further dehumanisation. It is a loud evidence of poor governance that borders on recklessВӯness while resources of the state is beВӯing squandered on thВӯousands of political appointees to the detriment of career civil servants who maВӯke things work in the state.  вҖңIt is as inconceivaВӯble as it is ludicroВӯus for the state govВӯernor to be comfortaВӯble paying the salarВӯies of thousands of redundant and unprodВӯuctive Special AdvisВӯers, Special AssistaВӯnts, Senior Special Assistants, Executive Assistants, etc, but has no qualms in chopping off huge paВӯrts of the little saВӯlaries of poor civil servants who toil night and day in servВӯice to motherland. I doubt if there is any civil servant in Delta State who is not disgusted by this action.  вҖңWhen some state govВӯernments in Nigeria proactively took steВӯps to diversify their economies by estabВӯlishing industries that create hundreds of thousands of jobs and generate income, Delta State governВӯment was busy reckleВӯssly appointing thouВӯsands of SAs, SSAs, EAs and others. Now that the вҖҳchickens have come home to rooВӯstвҖҷ, civil servants salaries must not be cut.  вҖңThe governor should instead drastically prune down the number of his bloated and redundant appointees and reduce official vehicles. These are drain pipes. Civil servants shouldnвҖҷt bear the brunt of the GovernmentвҖҷs lack of foresight and finВӯancial recklessness,вҖқ the statement concВӯluded.  Okowa Should Resign вҖ“ Right Activist  However, a right actВӯivist, Comrade ChristВӯian Moses Abeh, cooВӯdinator, Deltan LivВӯes Matter, called for the outright resigВӯnation of the governВӯor for contemplating the suspension of the payment of the new minimum wage, arguiВӯng that the governor was ruling the state with lies and deceВӯit despite the love the citizens had for him.  вҖңWhile we are praying for the quick recoВӯvery of the governor and his family who have been in isolatiВӯon for testing positВӯive to COVID-19, the same day he came out from isolation was the same day the staВӯte government announВӯced the implementatiВӯon of property tax law, and the next day the NLC leadership released a document indicating the triparВӯtite agreement on the suspension of the payment of the new minimum wage. How can the citizens believe the governor was infected with COVID-1Вӯ9?  вҖңHe couldnвҖҷt fumigate public places and made no provision for the unemployed popВӯulace against hunger, but quick to look for avenue to make moВӯney for the state. Governor Okowa should give account of what he has spent on the issue of COVID-19 and also account for his stewardship from 2015 till date.  вҖңHow can the governor be ruling us as if we are slaves and nobody is talking, includiВӯng the rubber-stamp House of Assembly meВӯmbers we have. The current State Assembly cannot speak out for the citizens but are quick to approve loans for the state.  вҖңGo to Ebonyi, Cross River or Rivers States and see what theВӯir governors are doiВӯng for the well-being of their people, yet Delta governor is looking for means to enrich himself and kinsmen. Governor Okowa is a monumental failure and should resign for his incomВӯpetency immediately. He has nothing to offer than hardship and deceit, he is telВӯling Deltans that hiВӯmself, his deputy and speaker will cut their salaries as if they are living on salaries, and the comВӯpromised labour leadВӯers in the state accВӯepted such rubbish against their own peoВӯple because of crumbs and unnecessary feВӯar.  Despite Delta receivВӯing the highest montВӯhly allocation and generating money more than Cross River, Ebonyi, Oyo, Adamawa and so many states in the country the goВӯvernor is slamming us with hardship, yet no meaningful develoВӯpmental project or policy that will bettВӯer the lives of DeltВӯans for these monies he has received.вҖқ