FRANCIS OKOYE writes on the recent meeting of North-east Governors and their drive to arrest the continued under development of the region due to insecurity The North-east region, compromising Borno, Yobe, Adamawa, Bauchi, Gombe and Taraba states was largely one of the most peaceful sub-regions in the country until the Boko Haram insurgency struck in 2009.  Borno, being the epicenter of the crisis has seen over 40,000 lives lost and about two million citizens displaced. The massacre and destruction have not been abated despite every effort by both the federal and state governments.  While Yobe State has also been at the receiving end of the  insurgency, Adamawa is also not spared the attacks from insurgents.  Although, the terrorists were resisted in Gombe State and could not find a base there, same as in Bauchi and Taraba States. But as the popular saying goes ” an injury to one is an injury to all,” the brunt of terrorism activities was felt across the zone.  This is so because, prior to the  insurgency, Borno was the biggest commercial hub of the region due to the economic potentials of the Lake had Basin, and its sharing of borders with about three African countries, which in turn, led to an influx of merchants from other African countries.  So, the devastation caused by the insurgency is not only to the lives and property of the people in the sub-region but the economy which has been badly crippled, with citizens feeding from hands to mouth, and over a million persons are still living as internally displaced persons (IDPs), while others are still trapped as refugees in Cameroon, Chad and Niger Republic.  Taking their destiny into their hands, the six governors of the region, with the understanding the common challenges they face, formed a forum with a view to finding a lasting solution to what had held the region to ransom for the past 11 years.  Thus, the first meeting of the North East Governors Forum was hosted in Gombe by the state governor, Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya, before this second meeting which took place in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, which was hosted by Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum.  Before the last meeting, however,  Zulum had hosted some progressive governors from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC).  The governors were in Maiduguri on a solidarity to their colleague, Zulum who had come under gunshots attack in Baga town, Kukawa local government area on July 29, 2020.  Zulum, used the APC governors’ visit to explain reasons for some of his outbursts and what some opinions thought to be confrontations with the security agencies especially, the military, who are constitutionally saddled with the responsibility of ending the Boko Haram madness  He told the visiting governors that he cannot afford to be silent in the midst of killings because he, by the oath he took on May 29, 2019, entered a covenant with God to defend the people of Borno.  The visiting governors under the platform of APC was led by its chairman and the Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Abubakar Bagudu. Also, on the entourage was the Governor of Jigawa State, Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar.  The state deputy governor, Umar Usman Kadafur, former Governor Kashim Shettima, Senator Muhammad Ali Ndume and few members of the state executive council had also attended the meeting.  “Our people need to be provided safe access to farmlands so they can earn livelihoods. The military needs to ensure this happens and I will continue to raise this. I remain resolute, firm, and committed, only God can give power,” Zulum said.  He also alleged sabotage in the prosecution of the war against in insurgency in the North-east, stressing that the President needs to know the truth.  The Governor said; “Let me also re-echo my previous position with respect to the insurgency in Borno State, I have said several times there is no doubt, the gravity of the insurgency cannot be compared with what has happened between 2011 – 2015 and from 2015 to date.  “The President has done well, but the most important thing is, it’s good also to say the right thing. There is a sabotage in the system that will not allow the insurgency to end. The President has to know this important point.”  He lamented the number of IDPs in Borno, noting that, there is a need for the people to return to the place where a certain level of peace has been attained.  The Progressives Governors led by Governor Bagudu assured  Zulum of their support. On the back of that assurance the Maiduguri meeting by the North-east Governors Forum held.  Although it has come and gone, the impact of the August gathering will linger in the minds of Borno residents and citizens who have been yearning for a unity of purpose among the governors of the sub-region to tackle the daunting challenges facing them.  However, the vigour demonstrated by the governors of the six states at the Maiduguri meeting, according to pundits indicates a beginning of a new dawn for the region.  The opening ceremony of the meeting was held at the government house in Maiduguri after which the governors went into closed door.  Present were governors of Adamawa, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri; Bauchi, Bala Mohammed, and Gombe, Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya. Taraba and Yobe were represented by deputy governors of Yobe.  Before the meeting, a technical committee comprising secretaries of Governments from the six states and focal persons from the North East Development Commission (NEDC) had deliberated for four days and came up with an agenda.  The team chaired by the SSG, Gombe state, Professor Ibrahim Abubakar Njodi met governor Zulum to brief him ahead of the meeting.  Meanwhile, arising from the close-door meeting, the governors having brainstormed on a way foward to the return of peace and economic prosperity of the sub-region, issued 11 points communique.  Topmost on the issues raised by the governors are security, recharging of the Lakechad, harnessing of the mineral deposits in the region and ensuring that the mandate of the North East Development Commission(NEDC) is realised to further rebuild the sub-region following years of insurgency.  In the communique, the governors unanimously elected  Zulum as the pioneer chairman of their forum, for a period of two years.  Highlighting the communique, the  NeGF Forum Chairman, Zulum said after the governors discussed the challenges facing the sub-region and  resolved as follows:  “The Forum commends the effort of the Federal Government of Nigeria in fighting the insurgency. However, the Armed Forces should intensify effort to secure hard-to-reach areas in the region and ensure safe access to farmlands.   “The Forum called on the Federal Government of Nigeria to ensure the deployment of state of the art military hardware to the region.   “The Forum recommends that the manpower deficit in the Nigerian Armed Forces should be bridged by allowing the Police to carry state of the art weapons where necessary and be provided with strategic equipment like high-velocity tear gas, trackers and Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC).  “The Forum calls on the Federal Ministry of Water Resources to ensure that attention is given to recharging the Lake Chad from National water bodies and strengthen the river basins in the sub region.  “The Forum pledges to work together to foster regional integration, growth and development especially in the exploitation of its oil and gas potentials, mineral resources, agriculture and industrialization.  “The Forum called on the Federal Government to revoke selected roads contracts awarded by Federal Ministry of Works for years without progress and re-award same to more competent contractors and fund to ensure timely execution.  “The Forum urged the Federal Government to ensure local content in the execution of the Mambila Hydroelectric power project and other programmes of the North East Development Commission to ensure synergy with state governments.  “The Forum supports the management and Board of the North East Development Commission and agreed to work together in producing a comprehensive strategic Master Plan for the region that will ensure sustainable development.  “The Forum affirmed its commitment to support the Federal Government agenda of transforming the Almajiri system with a view to strengthening both Islamic and western education as well as stopping street begging and prevalence of out of school children in the region as agreed by the Northern Governors.”  They also agreed to make Maiduguri headquarters of their forum.  They agreed to hold their third meeting on November 7, 2020 in Yola, Adamawa state.  Meanwhile, x-raying the fall out of the North East Governors Forum meeting which is the 11 point communique, the Sole Administrator, Borno State Chamber of Commerce (BOCCIMA), Alhaji Ahmed Ashemi, said after reading the communique, he has not seen concrete suggestion that will make the military or the security agencies to change their mode of operation.  The elder statesman supported equipping the police, noting that it will enable the force function very well.  The BOCCIMA boss was concerned that the 11-point communique did not address any economic issue.  “You can’t say that you are going to run a region or a State divorce of economic wellbeing. Now if you win the war for example, the only way you are going to consolidate peace is by growing the economy.  “And if you are not talking about how the economic status will be improved and you are only facing insecurity, at the end of the day, you are going to create another problem. When the insurgency is over and people have nothing to do, there is no employment, Industries are not working, commercial activities are down, businessmen have all become poor, they cannot do their businesses, unless you handle those ones, at the end of the day, you will finish one war and another one will start.  “Therefore, the governors have to also, sit down and look at the economic wellbeing of this region.  I remember in 1987, the military governors of the Northeast then, Borno, Bauchi and Gongola States sat down and decided that the Northeast region should become more coercive in action and association indecision so that they promote the region.  “And they decided to do three things jointly which were joint domestic trade fair; joint sportfare and joint cultural fair. And if these things are done, it will promote economic and cultural bond of Northeast States.  “These are some of the serious actions we have to see taken. Now there are even more challenges than it was in 1987. Right now in this States, there is a serious cash crunch. How do you reflect on the economy? So these are things that should have been included in their communique. I didn’t see that one. So, I will call on the governors, in their subsequent sittings, they should look at the economic aspect of the Northeast in addition to the security aspect,” Ashemi observed.  On his own, chairman of Network of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in Borno State, Amb Ahmed Shehu, described the meeting as timely, saying that what the governors have presented is the actual need of the people and is in consonance  with a communique the CSOs released prior to the governors’ meeting.  Shehu said in their communique, they spoke of issues of changing strategy of tackling the insurgency; creation of more employment opportunities for the people because, as it observed, lack of employment is pushing people to be recruited by the insurgents.  “We also spoke of opportunities for people to return to the communities and continue with their normal living. If security is provided, people can go back to their communities and pick up their lives. They cannot continue to depend on handouts from people.  “The Lakechad should be recharged for the creation of employment. On the security of lives and property, we told the military to increase their engagement with the communities. And the issue of reintegration, we told them that there is never a place in the history of the world, where the military handled reintegration,” Shehu said. He said  the  CSOs argued that the process and move that is being implored now by the military in the reintegration of the “repentant terrorists ” need to be revisited. 