Prince Osborn Nweze, son of the current governor of Ebonyi State, David Nweze Umahi is one youngster greatly inspired by his father. The CEO of Lapalm Royal Resort and also MD of Brass Oil & Construction Company said his father is the most enterprising person he has ever met. Prince who moved to London when he was 15 puts it this way: “I always knew I would follow the footsteps of my father. I am inspired daily by him. He is the most enterprising person I have ever met. Africa is a developing and I strongly believe that with civil engineering, I would be part of the major development”. Asked if being the son of a prominent personality puts pressure on him, Prince Osborn Nweze said: “It puts me in the spotlight. I never asked for it. There are also expectations from me especially from citizens of my State. However, I see it is as a privilege to be amongst the few families in position of power in Nigeria. I am blessed to be able to watch the country and state grow from a leadership point of view”. Being in a leadership position comes with great responsibilities. Prince revealed that he makes sure he hires the right people when it comes to getting the best of his employees. “As a CEO, I make sure I hire people based on their qualifications and their experience above every other thing. Proper and regular monitoring of the day to day running of the business is also something I engage in. If your employees are well qualified and you as a CEO is keeping tabs on your business, I believe such a business organization will go far”. On how he has been coping with the COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the world, Prince Osborn Nweze stated that he has been taking all the necessary precautionary measures. “This pandemic is none like I have seen before, a number of people in my family caught the virus. They have recovered now. But by the grace of God, they have recovered. I have seen firsthand the dangers of the virus. I have been taking all precautions as highlighted by the government and health ministries. I wear face masks whenever I leave the house, I observe social distancing when necessary, I engage in constant washing of my hands and also sanitize them”. 