The Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG), and the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) have presented the winning work of the Nigeria Prize for Science for 2019 to industry players. The work is to help reduce the Nigeria’s carbon footprint and start a vibrant bioenergy industry. The winners, Professor Meihong Wang and Dr Matthew Aneke, presented their work on ‘Carbon capture, Carbon utilisation, Biomass gasification and Energy storage for power generation at the annual NLNG-LCCI Business interactive forum held yesterday. This year’s forum was held as a webinar. The 2019 winning work provides solutions to the capture of carbon from the atmosphere and subsequent utilisation as well as providing alternative and safe energy for cooking and electricity, with the potential of reversing the trend of tree cutting for cooking. The Nigeria Prize for Science is a $100,000 award initiated by the NLNG 15 years to promote innovations in science and technology that will solve age-old problems and drive development in Nigeria. The prize is awarded annually. In her remarks, NLNG’s general manager, external relations and sustainable development, Mrs Eyono Fatayi-Williams, said the company has received an inspiring list of winning works in different areas of science through The Nigeria Prize for Science. She added that the force behind NLNG’s drive was its vision of “helping to build a better Nigeria”. She said that the company’s interest was to make solutions recognised through the prize, practicable and beneficial to Nigerians. In her speech, the president of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mrs Toki Mabogunje, represented by the deputy president of the chamber, Dr Olawale Cole, said the handshake between the industry players and scientists is the path to generating value that can turn around the narrative on the country’s development. She added that the NLNG/LCCI Business interactive webinar will help drive healthy conversations that can enable wide-scale use of the winning works, urging scientists seeking solutions to Nigeria’s problems not to relent in generating innovations that will improve the lives of Nigerians. Professor Wang is a Professor of Energy Systems at the University of Sheffield. Dr Aneke, a graduate of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo State, is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the University of Sheffield with expertise in process design and modelling, power systems analysis, power generation, renewable energy and environmental protection, amongst others. 