The Nigerian private sector returned to expansion during July with 50.4 points, following three successive months of decline. The Nigeria purchasing manager’s index (PMI) report showed that both business activity and new orders increased, but the severity of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) downturn meant that spare capacity remained evident, leading to a further reduction in employment. The Nigeria PMI report, published by Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc, reflects economic indicators from monthly surveys of private sector companies and it is targeted at providing information about current business conditions to various stakeholders. Readings above 50.0 indicate an improvement in business conditions while readings below 50.0 show a deterioration. The report said that “The recent surge in prices extended into the second half of the year, with overall input prices rising at the sharpest pace in the survey’s history. In response, firms also raised their output prices at the fastest rate since the survey began in January 2014. The headline PMI posted 50.4 in July, up from 46.4 in June and above the 50.0 no-change mark for the first time since March. The reading also signaled only a slight improvement in business conditions following a severe downturn due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Signs of improving demand were central to a strengthening of business conditions. New orders increased for the first time in four months. Business activity also returned to growth for the first time since March on the back of higher new orders and an easing of the lockdown. The PMI expansion in July was relatively modest. Despite new orders increasing in the latest survey period, steep declines in previous months meant that excess capacity was still evident. Backlogs of work decreased for the second month running, while firms continued to lower their staffing levels. Employment fell for the fourth successive month, but the rate of job cuts softened from June’s record. Economist at Stanbic IBTC Bank, Gbolahan Taiwo, said “Business activities in the Nigerian private sector returned to expansion territory for the first time since March as output and new orders improved. The PMI rose to 50.4 in July from 46.4 in June. Recall the Nigerian government started to ease the Covid-19 containment measures in early May and that has brought about some resumption to economic activities albeit slowly. “The output and new orders sub-index expanded for the first time in four months at 52 and 52.5 respectively. Although we expect business activities in the Nigerian private sector will continue to improve over the coming months, the overall economy will likely still fall into a recession as some parts of the economy, particularly the services sector will still struggle to recover perhaps until a vaccine is found.” Taiwo said “Also, despite the expected quarter-on-quarter growth, the higher base from last year will ensure a year-on-year contraction. On a negative front, the Employment index remains below the expansion mark of 50 for the fourth consecutive month as companies continue to reduce staffing owing to Covid-19 disruption to economic activities. This will continue to impact negatively on the demand side of growth as aggregate demand and purchasing power of the consumer will remain under pressure.”