In the past three months, Nigeria has witnessed growing incidences of rape. It is not justifiable to blame victims in anyway or insensitively trivialise the matter. Rape is a crime and should be punished, Blessing Bature and Adegwu John write. Nigerian law stipulates that rape is “Unlawful carnal knowledge of a woman or girl, without her consent, or with her consent, if the consent is obtained by force, or by means of intimidation of any kind, or by fear of harm.” Sections 357 and 358 of the Nigerian Criminal Code stipulates life imprisonment for the offence of rape. Despite this punitive measure, the recent rising cases of rape in Nigeria is generally worrisome. At the June 12 Democracy Day address, President Muhammadu Buhari said he was upset with the recent cases of rape in the country and assured of his administration’s determination to fight gender-based violence through available resources. “A rapist is worse than an animal; he has no moral rectitude. He throws overboard the limit of his legal right and can shamelessly deprive another person (more painfully, female children of underage) of their God-given rights to protect the chastity and sanctity of their body and mind; he has no respect for human beings and has become a cancer in the society.” Sexual violence against girls and women is a sad reality in Nigeria, they go mostly unreported to law enforcement agencies due to trust gap, associated stigma against the victim, intimidation, cultural barrier, religious sentiments and powerlessness of victim in seeking justice. Rape is not the fault of the victim and we need to educate our neighbours, friends and colleagues who vilify victims for their dressing, being at the wrong place, and at the wrong time, or probably not putting up enough resistance against the attacker. Time has come to stop the victim blaming and shaming. A significant number of rape takes place inside the victim’s abode, the dimensions, as we have seen now, forbids none – women, girls, teenagers, toddlers and infants are raped. Everything is used including drugs, weed and voodoo and money to lure, control and dominate the victim. The red line of death has been breached in several cases of rape in Nigeria as was the case of Uwa Omozuwa in Benin City, who was bludgeoned to death in a church. Nigerians have also not forgotten the case of Ochannya Elizabeth, a 13-year-old student of the Federal Government Girls College, Gboko, who also was allegedly raped to death by a father and his son. The country also heard of 29-year-old Shomuyiwa Azeezat, who was raped and killed in her Ibadan apartment, and in the same Ibadan, Bello Barakat was raped and stabbed to death by her attackers. Also in Benin, a pregnant wife of an Edo State politician was raped and murdered in her home. In Warri, the police have confirmed the arrest of a bishop who allegedly drugged and raped a girl that was brought to him for deliverance. Sokoto State Hisbah recorded over 600 cases of rape in 2019. About 80 cases of rape was recorded in Anambra State during the lockdown alone. Most of them are father-daughter rape (Incest). This is to mention but a few. Even grandmothers are not spared. This does not capture the unreported cases of those violated and killed in dark alleys, buried in septic tanks in remote areas yet undiscovered, those cases handled as family issues out of public glare. How many more girls have to be raped and killed before we know we have a pandemic in our hands? How many have to be violated and raped? Mrs Rebecca Ogah, mother of three and a civil servant, said: “Anytime I hear of rape incident, I get so angry at the rapist. I think of the trauma, stigma and the whole burden these girls and women victims will have to carry through their lives. “It is like their future is ruined. There are laws against rapists, but those laws are not enough to speak for the victims, especially the law of providing evidence against rapists, which seems to make it impossible for rape victims to get justice.” “I appeal to the government to enact more stringent laws that will address this long and debased issue befalling this generation. I mean frightful and a kind of two-edged law that can make people think about momentary sexual gratification of rape at the detriment of their lives. Perhaps death sentence should be the remedy,” she said. Ironically, to prove rape in a Nigerian court, victims must provide evidence, there must be witnesses, and the most near impossible of the evidence is “the fact of penetration,” beyond the “labia majora,”  which must be proved in the court before rape case can be established. However, owing to the indignity of this evidence, it is near impossible for adult women to submit themselves for any  medical proof that is potent to debase their personalities. “Even if it is difficult for victims to establish cases in the court against rapist, there is a way out that we can gradually use in fading out rape from our society. That is, every parent should  bring up their children in the ways of the Lord, because if they do, the children will live a moral and acceptable standard of our society and crimes such as rape won’t be here. “Before the law of our country, there is a law of God that guides against immoralities such as rape. Moral behaviour will help inculcate good character and conscience in them and deter them from doing evil,” Rebbecca said. Also Mrs Felicia Danladi, mother of two who trades in baby items and lives in Jikwoyi Abuja, said Nigeria’s extant laws of rape criminalises only a female raped by a male and does not consider lesbian and gay rape or even women raping men. With this, many are calling  for review of the existing laws on rape and sexual assault in Nigeria, in order to halt the rise. Research shows that one in four girls and 10 per cent of boys have been victims of sexual violence in Nigeria. This is apart from adult women and reported cases of aged women who have been raped across Nigeria. The number keeps increasing by day. “The recent rise in rape cases is disturbing and could be as a result of the unfortunate lockdown which has made many people to remain idle, because there is a popular maxim that ‘an idle man is a devil’s workshop’. “Rape inflicts so many psychological pains on the victims and I feel for them.  I hardly see rapists going to jail, Maybe because of the nature of rape laws I think they are not stringent enough,” she added. To Mrs Felicia, nothing should be less than a death sentence or castration for the offender of rape in Nigeria; however, the Nigeria House of Representatives, earlier this month, voted against seeking to recommend castration for rapists. “It’s time to amend laws on rape and block the loopholes that seem to be favourable to these rapists, or perhaps a special court should be setup to speed up trials of accused rapists. Rape is a more serious crime than financial crime, because of the inhumane and barbaric nature of it. So it should attract death sentence or even castration as many people are suggesting. This disturbing situation has put a lot of the women folk in fear. According to Mrs Maryam Abubakar, mother of five and a civil servant who resides in Karu, Abuja, rape is against Islamic tenants and rapists deserve to be punished according to the established laws of the land and Islamic law. “Allah forbids such an act like rape, and anyone found guilty of such offence should face the wrath of law – both the government and Islamic laws. The recent rise of rape cases has put women in fear and I am afraid for the lives of women and other rape victims in Nigeria. “Though it’s never happened to any of my family members before, but I am afraid because it’s a collective problem. It can happen to anyone and no one knows who the next victim would be. Everybody should support the fight against rape with whatever means because we all have daughters, sisters, mothers and even friends who are female and could be victims,” Mrs Maryam told LEADERSHIP Sunday. “My advice for the government is that death sentence should be the punishment for rapists, because laws are meant to stop people from committing crimes; if the laws are weak, criminals will take advantage and keep hurting people in the society. “I am calling on the relevant authorities to prescribe death sentence for the rape offenders, because the agony of rape is too much to bear and as a mother, I understand this,”  Mrs Maryam added. Recently the director general of NAPTIP, Dame Okah Julia-Donli, urged state governors to resolutely pursue the adoption of the VAP Act and the Child Rights Acts in their domains, before it’s too late. She said: “As at today, only about five states have laws against sexual and gender based violence. Lagos and Ekiti are top of the class. This is a clarion call for states to domesticate the Violence Against Persons Act in their states, to deepen the protection of women and children from predators in our society. “ Let me remind us that state governors and assemblies that are delaying in domesticating this act are inadvertently promoting sexual violence in their domain, noting that in many rape trials, the guilt or innocence of the accused hinges on whether or not the victim consented to sexual intercourse. She said the determination of consent often can lead to distressing cross examinations of rape victims in court. As a result, many rape victims choose not to report the crime to the police or refuse to press charges against their assailants. Those charged with rape have a higher than average rate of acquittal mainly because it is difficult to prove a crime, for which there are usually no third party witnesses (doctors report). Rape is, thus, both under reported and under prosecuted. The psychological reactions of victims include feeling of shame, humiliation, confusion, fear, and rage. She said the first road block and urgent intervention is for parents to take up their parental responsibilities and actively check the engagements of their children.  The victim blaming/shaming must stop and the culture of silence broken. “I call on all of us, to start grooming the boys. Tomorrow’s rest begins from today, let the boy grow into a responsible and accountable gentlemen.”