Communities in Imo State cautioned to display dynamic disposition and flexibility while practicing their various cultural norms even as they are advised to discard obnoxious cultural tendencies and embrace the useful ones. This postulation was made by Dr. Ibrahim Conteh, Chief Of UNICEF Nigeria Field Office, Enugu while presenting an address at the Advocacy Dialogue with Traditional Rulers in the 21 autonomous communities in Owerri West and the 34 autonomous communities in Ehime Mbano, local government Areas. According to him, a thing of pride that should be developed is expected to be accessed based on relevance in line with the current economic, political and social situation in the community and beyond. Dr. Conteh explained that some cultures are becoming global, while others are gradually dying out and being replaced with new ones. He encouraged communities to find out the benefits of any culture before embracing such cultural practices. His words, “human beings are initiators, interpreters and transmitters of culture, culture can be both beneficial and harmful. Culture is also dynamic, and not static, changes with time and context, this can be discarded when it is not useful to society”. The Chief of UNICEF Nigeria Field Office Enugu, Dr. Conteh stressed that beneficial cultures, promotes the wellbeing of citizenry, socially, physically and mentally of individual and community at large. He also stressed that harmful cultural practices violates human rights and negatively affects physical, mental and spiritual well being of the citizens. Dr. Conteh also restated the determination of the International Organization (UNICEF) to sustain its partnership with various arms of government for the elimination of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in the country He noted that the policy already put in place by both the federal government and the Imo State government to tackle the monster such as various terms of imprisonments and fine against culprits of the Obnoxious practice are in consonance with the visions of the body to remedy the ugly trend. The UNICEF Field office stated this at a one-day advocacy Dialogue with traditional leaders of the Owerri West Council area Imo State organized by the NOA Imo State with support from UNICEF to seek the collaborations of the Royal Fathers towards the elimination of the FGM in the area. “Government has a law and policy against FGM and based on this, UNICEF has come out to support the crusade against FGM mainly through meaningful dialogue and consultations and we proscribe your cultures and traditions but only those that are harmful, obnoxious and inhuman”. Dr Conteh expressed optimism that this had begun to bear fruits in some communities already visited by UNICEF and NOA in the Ngor-Okpala, Ikeduru, Oguta and the Owerri West Council areas of the state. Speaking on the occasion which also featured an update on accelerating the elimination of FGM in the state, appreciating cultural and the impact on the health wellbeing of the people basic information on preventing and responding violence against woman, children, COVID-19 prevention and risk mitigation, as well sensitization of women during August meeting and community dialogue on FGM abdonment Vitus Ekeocha NOA director in the state commended the UNICEF for her sustained support to NOA, the state Ministry of General development Affairs and that of Health in the onslaught against FGM, adding that series of dialogue had already taken place in some LGAs to this effect. The 2020 Edition he said would take place in the Owerri West and Ehime Mbano council areas till the end of October noting that as the custodians of the peoples cultures and traditions, the Royal fathers are at a Vantage position to end the scourge. Chairman of the Owerri West Council of Traditional Rulers Eze Ejimogu Geoffrey speaking on behalf of the monarchs denounced the continued practice of FGM in some communities and pledge their constipation to stop. In addition to the role of the community in child protection. The UNFPA-UNICEF Joint properties and dynamism of culture and factors reinforcing harmful traditional practices effects of FGM on the health of girls and women as well as in the 34 Autonomous communities in the Ehime Mbano Council area. The workshop which featured overview of the FGM and the situation in Imo, the spread of COVID-19 and children protection and the necessity of birth registration equally explained the import of child protection, the needs and rights of the immediate and short-term physical health complications of FGM.