The National Orientation Agency (NOA) in partnership with the Peering Advocacy and Advancement Centre (PAACA), has pledge its commitment to fight against cases of rape and other gender-based violence across the country. The Executive Director of PAACA, Ezenwa Nwagwu, disclosed this during the stakeholder’s discussion on “Trends, challenges and impact of sexual and gender based violence on young people in Nigeria: The Way Forward” in Abuja, said as a society, we are burdened by the monster of gender-based violence. He said, “The discussion became necessary due to the escalation of sexual and gender-based crimes we have witnessed in recent months, especially during the COVID-19 lockdown. “The sad reality is that justice often eludes the victims, especially where ignorant and fear of mockery, stigmatisation or retaliation hinders victims of these crimes from instituting police report and pressing charges”. In his address, the Director General of NOA, Dr Garba Abari, said as an institution that is mandated to preserve the value fabric of our nation, the NOA has been troubled about this narrative of the beastly description of some Nigerians. “Today’s meeting is in continuation of our search for a solution to the aged long problem which appears to have found new expression in our country, whether old or new, rape or sexual and gender-based violence are evil against humanity which all Nigerians must come together to end. “Nigerians in our individual roles as parents, teachers, religious leaders, neighbours, security agents, civil society actors and health workers have a duty to perform in finding a way to end this bad behaviour by the worst among us. Even victims have a role to play by speaking out through relevant bodies while seeking medical support,” he said. He noted that at the end of the engagement, the agency would build synergy to promote behavioural change across all sectors; to provide ideas and direction for tackling the issues and intensify the call for the operationalisation of the relevant statutes or legislation in all states of the federation. NOA boss further said, “The disturbing wave of sexual and gender based violence calls for serious concern and action by both state and non-state actors. “That is why today we are gathered here not just as government representatives but also other stakeholders particularly active third sector players to harmonise our strategy for the fight against rape in Nigeria. “Indeed, it’s very crucial that we work together for a real solution that will ensure that our children, women and the vulnerable remain confident in the collective will of the society to safeguard them,” he added.