…Says No Going Back On IPPIS Rejection The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has revealed that lecturers in Nigerian universities have been on the same salary structure which it negotiated with the Federal Government in 2009. This is as it insisted that there is going back on the rejection of the integrated payroll and personnel information system (IPPIS) by university lecturers except the Federal Government wants to trigger another crisis in the university education sub-sector. ASUU President, Professor Biodun Ogunyemi, who spoke at the weekend during a stakeholders meeting organised by the union at the University of Port Harcourt, accused politicians of gradually killing the morale of university lecturers. Ogunyemi said: “It appears politicians are gradually killing the morale of university lecturers. For more than 11 years, we have been on the same salary structure. “The salary structure we are still using today was negotiated in 2009. We were supposed to have reviewed the salary package three years after 2009. “The ongoing nationwide strike action by university lecturers has nothing seriously to do with the Federal Government’s neglect of the working condition of those who work in the system.” The ASUU President insisted that the IPPIS, who was first introduced to university lecturers in 2013, will localize Nigerian universities if accepted by the union. He said: “The IPPIS was first introduced to us in 2013 and we rejected it because it will localize our universities. As we speak today, except the Federal Government want to trigger another crisis, there is no basis why our members should be enlisted for IPPIS.” Earlier in his welcome address, Chairman of ASUU in the University of Port Harcourt, Dr. Austen Sado, said it is important for stakeholders in the university education sub-sector, including lecturers, parents and students to recognize that they have a role to play in the sub-sector. Sado accused the political class, that were elected to manage the country’s Commonwealth of abandoning the education sector.