The APC News Online in a bit to structure the organization has appointed Sen. Smart Adeyemi, a third time Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria representing Kogi West and former President of the Nigerian Union of Journalists as Chairman, Advisory Board of the organization owing to his accumulated wealth of experience in the media industry. Speaking in his office, the Founder and Publisher of the APC NewsOnline, Dr. Tom Ohikere who is also a two time former Commissioner of Information of Kogi state, said that the organization was birthed to consolidate on the gains of the already existing media arm of the All Progressive Congress APC. According to him, the APC News Online is envisioned to promote and project the collective interests of the All Progressive Congress through media engagements, as it aims to find solutions to the media challenges of the party. The forum would strengthen the relationships between the government, party leaders, Stakeholders, and the general public through prompt and effective information dissemination for the overall benefit of the party. Responding to the appointment, Adeyemi commended Ohikere for his dexterity in his coordination and contributions to the success of the ruling All Progressive Congress APC especially in the last Presidential and states elections which saw to the reelection of President Muhammadu Buhari, through his media engagements and affirmed his readiness to work with his team in whatever capacity to ensure that the interest of the party is projected and protected. In his words, “I have always cherished Dr Ohikere’s commitment in restoring and reawakening oneness in APC and also love his full and dogged dedication to the winnings and smooth growth of the party in the Federal, State and local tier.”  bringing forth a support media platform to strengthen the already existing media structure of the party is indeed a show of solidarity and patriotism that must be encouraged, and expressed optimism that the joint efforts of the team will be a boost for the All Progressive Congress and a voice for Nigerians at large. Adeyemi however commended Mr President, leaders and members of the APC for all their contributions in making the party the best umbrella to which good governance and corruption free administration is experienced for the umpteenth time.