Zamfara State governor, Muhammad Bello Matawalle, in this interview with State House correspondents speaks on how his state is tackling illegal mining and the insecurity connection, among other topical issues. JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH presents the excerpts. Why did you come to see the President? I came to brief him about the many issues that is worrying my state particularly the issue of illegal mining that is taking place everyday. Like three days ago we had exposure of large deposit of gold in our state while the locals are trooping in thousand to do illegal mining. So, I came to seek his advice on how best we are going to tackle the issue of illegal mining which we discussed and he gave me all the support and in a few days, people of Zamfara will see a lot of changes especially in the mining sector.  Specifically what do you want the Federal Government to do for you? First, we want to strengthen local miners which we want to identify them and group them into a cooperative society so that they can be benefiting from mining. The president understood our plight and we have the issue of PAGMI. It is already ongoing and they have done it in some other states. Zamfara State is going to benefit from this PAGMI programme very soon. When I go back, we will set up a committee on PAGMI so that they can go round and the government and CBN will be buying from us directly. It is better they are selling it very cheap in the mining areas, the Federal Government, CBN and state can come in and be buying from this small-scale miners.  What are the things you showed the President? It is very important to us as a government particularly the issue of security, to know the root cause of insecurity. Zamfara state is blessed with many mineral resources and some people outside the country come in to buy gold and other precious stones and sometimes instead of paying people, they pay back with arms. I did some investigations, so the state government will be buying some of these minerals so that we can block that chain. So, now the state government is engaging the miners, we will be buying some of this gold from them with the limited resources we have. We came to show him how the state has profited from illegal miners especially in the bush, he has seen what we have. We have some many cases of guns in Zamfara state. He is very happy with the process we have initiated and he said whatever support that the state government need, the Federal Government is ready to assist us, infact he has given directive to the Minister of Solid Minerals to work with the state government to make Nigeria a great country in terms of solid minerals and diversify from oil to solid mineral resources.  What is the latest in your efforts to make Zamfara the mining hub of Nigeria? We now have a gold refinery in the state, which is mounted in Bakolori Dam, we also have another equipment that is coming, we want to make Zamfara a model in terms of solid minerals and I assure the people of the state that within two to three months, we will go into full-scale mining. What is the latest on the security situation in the state? Contrary to what you have been hearing before, now the narration has changed. You won’t be hearing of mass killings in the state because the security agents are doing their best. I equally advised the President that the clamor for the sack of the Service Chiefs is not the solution. Let us support the security services and we as state governors, we have a crucial role to play too. We just have to support the security agencies no matter what. If the governors are not serious, they can’t be able to achieve what they want. I told the President that all those are calling for the sack of the security chiefs, they should think of the best way to support them to perform better instead of sacking them. Even if you sack them, you are bringing new ones, so let us use the ones that we have. We will support them as a government, my state now is at peace and everybody is aware. We have more than 3,000 policemen going round the mining sites in order to protect the sites. We have the security. It’s just for us as leaders to support them. I believe we will see a lot of changes in terms of security in this country.  What advice did the President give you after you briefed him? What he said was that we would look for serious investors that will come to the state. He even advised me that I should liaise with South African and Russian mining companies so that we can partner with the federal government too to achieve much more. I assure you within a limited time, once the ban is lifted, I will travel to South Africa to meet some companies and make some assessments and they will follow me to come and see what Zamfara has. He also advised me to see a lot of people. He gave me a fatherly advice and I am happy with the advice he gave me. 