…6 months after, Nigeria has done well to curtail COVID-19 – PTF The planned resumption of international flights in Nigeria has been shifted by one week with the new date set at September 5, 2020 from the original August 29, 2020. This was revealed by the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika at the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Speaking on the reason for the change, representative of the minister, the director general of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, Captain Musa Nuhu, explained that all aviation preparations were ready by some COVID-19 protocols need to be perfected and hence, the need to extend the resumption date by one week. Giving more insights into the reasons for the extension, the minister said the forms for COVID-19 test and all other preparations to forestall the spread of the virus have to be put in place and hence the need to extend by one week. Speaking on the principle of reciprocity, the minister said before the commencement date, a clearly explanations will be made in that. Recall that the principle means all countries that have banned flights from Nigeria, will also have planes from their countries, banned from entry into Nigeria. Some of the countries which have already banned flights from Nigeria are in the European Union (EU) as the EU included Nigeria on the banned countries on the first of July, 2020 when they opened their airspace. It would be noted that the ministry of Aviation had stated that about 1280 passengers will be allowed in on a daily basis in Abuja and Lagos airports, which have been billed to commence first. Meanwhile, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on Thursday, said Nigeria has done well in curtailing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic six months after the incident case in the country. This is even as the PTF admitted that Nigeria and Nigerians could do better to stop the spread of the virus. Speaking at the daily briefing of the PTF, the chairman of the Presidential Task Force and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha said “it is with all sense of modesty that I wish to state that Nigeria has done remarkably well but could do exceedingly better as captured in Mr. President’s speech during the World Health Certification-Free status for the African continent when he expressed optimism on our fight against the pandemic I quote ‘At a time when the global community is battling the COVID-19 pandemic….this achievement ( eradication of the  polio virus) strengthens my conviction that with the requisite political will, investments and strategies, as well as citizens’ commitment, we will flatten the curve’.” The SGF further noted that “as we enter the last week of this extended eased lock-down phase, and note the impressively declining fatality ratio and reduction of confirmed cases, the PTF would also like to draw our attention to a subtle change in epi-centre of the virus. We all recall that Lagos, Kano and Ogun states were the initial epi-centres and this to Oyo at a time, and now Plateau state. While calling for more vigilance and carefulness on observing COVID-19 protocol, the SGF said “as mentioned by the Lagos State Commissioner of Health and a notable COVID-19 warrior, Professor Akin Abayomi, Lagos has passed its peak but we call for vigilance and cautious optimism because the scourge is not over yet. Our strategic objective still remains, to test samples in high numbers across the entire nation. “It is, therefore, in the above context that the PTF re-emphasizes her often repeated calls to every citizenry to take responsibility by complying with all guidelines and non-pharmaceutical measures, including: wearing of masks properly, maintaining social distances, avoiding large gatherings, maintaining regular hygienic practices and most important staying at home for the most vulnerable. “As we keep to these simple protocols, our individual and collective efforts at balancing lives and livelihoods would achieve its intended benefits, especially now that we have opened a lot of sectors and opening more sectors.” 