The Nigerian Air Force NAF yesterday flagged Off a 3 Day Medical
Outreach for  the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Zonkwa,
Zangon-Kataf Local Government Area (LGA) and Mariri in Lere LGA of
Kaduna State The Director of Public Relations Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola said
the 3-day medical outreach at each of the 2 locations is strictly for
victims of recent armed banditry attacks in the State. He said the free medical service which is an initiative of the Chief
of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, began yesterday
23 August 2020, and is aimed at enhancing good civil-military
relations between the NAF and host communities as well as alleviating
the hardship being experienced by the IDPs who are currently camped at
Mercy IDP Camp in Zonkwa and the Mariri IDP Camp in Lere LGA. He said the first phase of the medical outreach will end on 25 August
2020 while the outreach in Mariri will commence on 27 August 2020. “free healthcare services that would be offered during the outreach
include; free medical check-up and consultation with treatment of
malaria, hypertension, diabetes, ulcers and provision of prescription
medications as well as free dental examination/treatment. “Other medical services that would be offered during the exercise
include free visual acuity checks and provision of prescription eye
glasses, free minor surgical procedures, de-worming and immunization
of children as well as donation of insecticide-treated mosquito nets,”
he said. Daramola said the Medical Team would also give health education talks
on COVID-19 and distribute non-surgical cloth face masks to the IDPs. In addition, he said relief materials, including cartons of noodles,
soap and detergents as well as blankets and bags of garri, were also
distributed to the IDPs. Flagging off the medical outreach, the Chairman, Zangon-Kataf LGA, Dr
Elias Manza, who was represented by the Vice Chairman of the Local
Government, Mr Tonac Yakubu, appreciated the NAF for the kind gesture
and promised to partner with the Service to ensure a successful
outing. “Despite the fact that we are bereaved, we were very excited when we
heard that the NAF was organizing a medical outreach in Zonkwa. We are
very delighted. I want to say thank you so much for seeing through our
plight and coming to commiserate with us and also to take care of our
sick and displaced people. Our joy knows no bound and we pray that
this heart of kindness and concern is just the beginning of what we
would see the NAF doing in our midst”, he said. Earlier in his remarks, the Chief of Medical Services, NAF, Air
Commodore Gideon Bako,who lead the tean while commiserating with the
IDPs, stated that the CAS is very passionate about humanitarian
activities and had shown immense concern for the plight of the people
affected by the recent banditry attacks in the area. He noted that the NAF would do everything within its power to bring
succour to the people and calm the restiveness to enable the people of
the Community continue with their daily businesses. “We are going to have 6 days of medical outreach, that would be
conducted in 2 phases. Three days will be done here at the Mercy IDP
Camp, while the remaining 3 days will be at Mariri IDP Camp in Lere
LGA”, he added. He therefore solicited the cooperation of the people for the
successful conduct of the medical outreach. In their separate messages, the Agwam Bajju, His Royal Highness Mallam
Nuhu Bature, represented by Ogwatia Stephen Akut, and the Agwam Atyap,
represented by Mr Biliock Waje, appreciated the CAS and the entire NAF
family for the medical outreach. Members of the Community, who turned
out in their large numbers, were also full of appreciation to the NAF
for its continued support in the provision of security and free
medical services to the people of the LGA. The flag-off ceremony was witnessed by the Coordinator of the Mercy
IDP Camp, Reverend Gambo Waziri; the NAF Director of Public Health and
Humanitarian Services, Group Captain Ali Tanko, who was part of the
Medical Team, as well as the Deputy Director, Civil-Military
Relations, Headquarters NAF, Group Captain Musa Aileru, amongst
others.