Senator representing Kaduna Central zone, Uba Sani, has described Monday’s visit by the national President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) to the Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai as quite uplifting and statesmanlike. Uba Sani, while calling El-Rufai a Pan-Nigerian with zero tolerance for discrimination said the visit is a pointer to the fact that it is only through a collaborative effort that:”we can win the battle against banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle” The CAN President led a high powered delegation to El-Rufai to discuss the dicey security situation in parts of the state, which Uba Sani said is what is expected of every true leader. Uba Sani said he will continue to work closely with the State Government and security agencies to bring the insecurity situation in Kaduna Central to an end:”Our people have lost so much. Their lives and livelihoods matter,” the Senator said. The Senator said the visit will also help to refocus attention on solutions to the crisis and lower the political temperature in the state. Uba Sani noted that Kaduna State Government, is totally committed to the restoration of peace and security in Southern Kaduna and the five affected local government areas in the Kaduna Central. He described Governor El-Rufai as Pan-Nigerian with zero tolerance for discrimination and high preference for inclusive governance. “The visit of the high-powered CAN delegation is heartwarming and strategic as the state government and security agencies step up efforts to end the bandit attacks in Southern Kaduna and parts of the Kaduna Central under control. “The visit is a pointer to the fact that it is only through a collaborative effort that we can win the battle against banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, cattle rustling and other crimes,” Uba Sani said. “We are one people and must come together to rebuild confidence and chart the pathway to sustainable peace. This is the time for leaders to passionately appeal to our people to give peace a chance,” he said. Uba Sani added:”He cherishes the people of Southern Kaduna, and indeed all the citizens of Kaduna State, and will do everything in his power to rebuild their trust and confidence in the sincerity and commitment of the government towards peace and security in the state. “It is my hope that the visit of the CAN national leadership will mark the beginning of a rapprochement between the people of Southern Kaduna and the State Government so that a partnership can be forged to bring the bandits to their knees. Special Forces have been deployed to Southern Kaduna. The total support of the people is critical for the mission to succeed. “I will continue to work closely with the State Government and security agencies to bring the insecurity situation in Kaduna Central to an end. Our people have lost so much. Their lives and livelihoods matter,” the Senator said.