The Federal Government has said that the Edo Modular Refinery project, which is 95 per cent (mechanical works) completed in Ologbo, Ikpoba Okha Local Government Area of Edo State, will on completion attract more investment in modular refineries in Nigeria, generate employment and reduce youth restiveness in the Niger Delta. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Mr. Edobor Iyamu, who spoke during an inspection visit to the refinery, commended the Edo State Government for ensuring that the modular refinery comes on stream. He said the establishment of the refinery in the state is in line with the new vision for the Niger Delta, ensuring that the people benefit maximally from the wealth in the region. Iyamu added that the project is aimed at promoting the establishment of modular refinery projects in the area to attract investment into the oil and gas sector. Chairman, Edo Refinery and Petrochemical Company, Mr. Michael Osime, represented by the Company’s Global Advisor, Frans Ojielu, said the company is being supported by Edo State Government with a N700 million project support fund. He said the 6,000 barrels per day (bpd) plant also has a fabrication yard to boost local capacity to produce materials and provide a robust support for establishment of more modular refineries. Osime added that discussions are ongoing with Ambrose Alli University to assist in training Nigerians for the oil and gas industries. According to him, “In 2016, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osibanjo embarked on the tour of the region where he met with key stakeholders to deliberate on issues on improving the social economic wellbeing of the people of Niger Delta region, which is in line with the six-point agenda of Mr. President. This is one of the products of that tour.” Irukera FCCPC Bags FG Awards The Federal Government has confers an “Extra Mile” Award on Federal Competition Consumer Protection Commission for its Outstanding Performances during Covid-19 Pandemic and its participation in the Sustainable Production/Delivery of essential Commodities of Committee of the federal government The letter of the Awards which was signed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce Dr. Nasir Sani-Gwarzo on be behalf of the Minister Otunba Niyi Adebayo in Abuja, emphasised that FCCPC’s under Barr. Babatunde Irukera has shown an exemplary dedication, commitment and loyalty to work and service of the Commission and the nation as a whole which necessitated the recognition. Reacting to the Award, the CEO/MD of FCCPC Barr. Babatunde Irukera who has personally been leading the prosecution of unethical and underhand dealing by some companies in the country express his gratitude and the commission for the Awards and recognition, he said, the Commission under him realises and notes that protecting consumers and citizens remains an emergent and urgent calling upon all, including all arms of government, civil society, industry and all other stakeholders. He said the Commission will continue to intensify its efforts and invites, as well as encourages all, to collaborate as the Commission not only build consensus on the priority of consumer rights protection, but also demand and insist these rights are respected and protected.