Lawyers have expressed divergent views over the factionalisation of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), following the decision by some lawyers from the northern part of the country to form a new association known as the New Nigeria Bar Association (NNBA). However, a senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and former commissioner of Justice in Abia State, Chief Away Kalu, has expressed confidence that the NBA is not going to split despite the ongoing crisis rocking it. Kalu, who is also a professor of law, in
a telephone interview with LEADERSHIP WEEKEND said the association is a body recognised by law and therefore cannot break. Following the withdrawal of invitation of the Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir el- Rufai, as speaker at its just concluded annual general conference, a splinter group known as New Nigeria Bar Association (NNBA), emerged. Since the announcement of the new group, there have been mixed reactions from legal practitioners. Reacting to the development, Kalu said the recent withdrawal of invitation to the Kaduna State governor as panellist at the 60th annual conference should not be a reason for the split of the association. He said, “The withdrawal of the invitation of Kaduna State governor as panellist at the conference should not be seen as sectional. For you to accuse the NBA of sectionalism, you need to know how many speakers were invited and where they come from. You need to know the geographical spread of the invited guests and panellists. Except that is done, the accusation of sectionalism is baseless. ‘’The NBA is not going to split, it is a recognised body both locally and internationally. The withdrawal of an invitation should not be a sole cause of anger’’. Another senior advocate, Mr. Ahmed Raji,
on his part called for caution.
According to Raji, the leadership of
the NBA should listen to their complaint and find a way out in the interest of the association. ‘’Whatever the grievances are, it is not good for the image of the NBA. If those who are in support of the NNBA decides to for a new group and the majority accepts it, why won’t it work? ‘’They have to listen to what the new group are saying and find a way of resolving the crisis. To save the image of the NBA, they should listen to them because they can decide that they don’t want to be part of the association because the constitution guarantees freedom of association.’’
A Kaduna-based senior lawyer, Abdul Balogun, described the crisis in the umbrella