The Nigerian army has commenced investigation into allegations that soldiers of Operation Lafiya Dole now engage in fishing and farming of arable lands in Borno State. There have also been allegations that exportation of fish from the Lake Chad waters is ongoing. The allegations surfaced after an attack on the state Governor, Prof.Babagana Umara Zulum in Baga, in Kukawa local government of the state. There are reports of fishing activities going on in the lake chad, Boko Haram are now reportedly in control of the waters with the civilian population out of the way. But most recently the military has also been indicted as being part of the fishing business, linking the allegation with the recent attack on Governor Babagana Zulum. The Deputy theatre commander of Operation Lafiya dole, Major General Felix Omoigui leads a panel of investigation on a two-day facts-finding mission to Baga, to verify the allegations. The 130 battalion Baga, a forward operational base is at the center of the allegations against the army since Governor Zulum’s Attack. The panel interrogated the Commanding Officer of the 130 Battalion Baga and the CJTF. The Commanding Officer Lt. Col Umar Abdulmajid while responding to questions vehemently denied the allegations saying “there is nothing like that, farming fishing from either civilian or military, nobody is farming and nobody is fishing intact from Monguno to Baga there’s no civilian and there’s no civilian vehicles coming to Baga.” “There was an allegation that soldiers are involved in farming activities fishing and trading of fish and other farm produce from here to Maiduguri and other places and the Chief of Army Staff got wind of this and being that he has zero tolerance for infractions like this he mandated us to come for a fact finding mission to ascertain whether the allegations are true.” Omoigui told journalists. “During the course of our investigation you have also been there, And the investigative session was open we’ll leave you to judge; We are going to go back and write our report and the outcome will be made public . ” Once I finish we’ll submit to the appropriate superior authority andnif need be we’ll let the public know because that allegation is so damaging and that is why the chief of army staff is very concerned about it and that is why we are here.” He stated. “You’ve seen the whole place, there are no civilians here and there are no farmlands I don’t know where this rumour is emanating from. I really don’t want to arrive at any position now because the investigation is still going on but from what they have said it follows that the allegations is baseless.” “We just liberated this place and we have made it secured now and the civilians can come in. But once in a while we do witness these infiltrations of the Boko Haram terrorists. “So in an atmosphere like that why would the soldier leave their primary duty of protecting civilians and then go and be farming? It’s not possible.” The Deputy commander said. End