The comptroller-general of Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammed Babandede, has charged newly promoted officers not to relent in their efforts to make the service better. Babandede  who gave the charge during the virtual decoration of senior officers of the service yesterday in Abuja urged the newly decorated senior officers of the service to exhibit a high sense of professionalism and commitment to duty. He advised the newly promoted  officers to carry out their duties  in line with the mandate of the service , especially in furtherance of the federal government policy on ease of doing business. The CG explained that 100 senior officers were promoted by the Civil  Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Board (CDCFIB) vide a letter referenced, CDCFIB/NIS/DTS/CORR/503/138. The number of junior officers who were also promoted within the same period were 3,548 and 118 conversions. Babandede directed that all other officers promoted be decorated at the Zonal and Command levels due to COVID-19 protocols given by the  federal government. He said that the service was trying its best to be gender-balanced, adding that the service would continue to ensure that it practiced gender balancing. He revealed that a total of 29 Comptroller of Immigration (CIS) were promoted to the rank of Assistant Comptroller General (ACG) and a total of 71  Deputy Comptroller of Immigration (DCI) were also promoted to the rank of Comptroller of Immigration (CIS). According to him, “Out of the 29 ACGs, we have 7 females and out of the 71 CIS, we have 14 females. We are still trying our best to ensure gender equality in our service.” He said, “You are wearing new ranks, but that should not make you to  go to bed. You should know that you are now putting on new caps and shoes, which is a new level of higher responsibility, dedication to duty and effectiveness to your call.” Assistant Comptroller General, (ACG) Mrs Doris Braimah, on behalf of the decorated senior officers, said, “We promise to do all that is within our powers to uphold the value of the NIS. We shall perform our task diligently and promise not to let the service down.”