Former Military President Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) has urged Nigerians to keep hope alive as he marked his 79th birthday, yesterday. In a short message sent to journalists after cutting his birthday
cake with the members of  his family , IBB who did not allow many
guests and  journalists into his house amidst fear of the spread of
coronavirus,  said he felt good clocking 79 years of age. Asked how he felt at 79, the former Nigeria Military President said,  “I
feel good, I thank God for His mercy and grace.” He said that he appreciated those who sent him goodwill messages at his
79th birthday and thanked them for their good comments about him. When asked about his birthday message to Nigerians, IBB briefly said, “They
should still remain and keep hope alive.” IBB yesterday marked his 79th birthday without much
guests, as was usually the practice in the past.
LEADERSHIP gathered that this might not be unconnected with the current
COVID-19 pandemic. The only major guest was the governor of Niger State, Alhaji
Abubakar Sani Belllo  who led few people to the house to present the
usual birthday card.
The governor had extolled the virtue of the former Nigerian leader and
prayed for long life and good health for IBB and his family. Meanwhile the Niger State commissioner for Information, Mohammed Sani
in a statement marking IBB’s birthday said, “It is with profound sense of joy that the Niger State government on behalf of the entire citizens of the state wishes to join millions
of well wishers in rejoicing with Nigerian Icon and Elder statesman
whose wealth of experience in leadership has remain a source of
reference as he clocked 79 years”. He stated that,” IBB is not only a professional soldier, pragmatic
leader but also a role model for all politicians and political leaders
within the nation, continent and the world at large,” adding that, “we
appreciate and identity with him (IBB) especially the numerous
outstanding achievements in the military and politics amongst which
was the moving of the federal capital from Lagos to Abuja.” The commissioner further stated that the state government and the
people of the state salute the steering qualities displayed by
IBB as a military President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,
pointing out that, “his (IBB) tenure as military President also
brought in many improvement which has made Nigeria a united and
indivisible nation till date.”