Perhaps, President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew,  Mamman Daura,  did  not  know  he  was  stirring  the  hornet  nest  when  he  decided  to  comment  on  one  of  the  most  heated topics  in  the  nation’s  polity.  Recently,   the   renowned   industrialist   shared     his     views     on     rotational     presidency, which he said was no longer useful. In an interview he granted the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Hausa Service, Daura said, “This turn by turn, it  was  done  once,  it  was  done  twice  it  was  done  thrice.  It is better for this country to be one. It should be for the most competent and not for someone who comes from somewhere.” No  sooner  the  interview  was  aired  than  the  elder  statesman  came  under  brutal   attacks   from   various   socio-political  groups  and  individuals  both  in  the  traditional  and  social  media.  Some   Nigerians   across   the   country   condemned    his    postulations    with    incisive   vituperations,   alleging   that   his statement was pinpointing the plot by the north to cling to the presidency farther than 2023. Apart  from  the  die-hard  critics  who  are  wont  to  habitually  pick  holes  in  everything  associated  with  President  Buhari  and  his  government,  there  are  others  who  may  be  opposing  Daura’s  stance   from   an   infantile   point   of   view.  We  all  know  that  when  children  misconstrue   metaphors,   idioms,   and   proverbs,  they  often  do  so  in  terms  of  literal interpretations of their constituent words. But coming to know Daura over the years and what he stands for, he does not pass for a man whose views on rotational presidency would border on people’s negative perceptions.   He   is   more   concerned with competence and merit instead of rotating the presidency. But his statement set the country’s political space on overdrive, with groups such as Afenifere saying it was Buhari giving a hint through his closest associate. Sensing the mischievous elucidations skewed  into  the  innocent  and  modest  opinion  of  a  citizen  with  his  freedom  of expression, the presidency came out to  clear  the  air  on  the  matter.  It  said  the  views  expressed  by  Daura  were  personal to him and did not, in any way, reflect that of either the president or his administration as claimed by many. Meeting Daura for the first time in Kaduna in 1983, it didn’t take me much to confirm that he was a different person from what many would think about him. That  hot  sunny  Saturday  afternoon,  we  arrived  in  Kaduna  for  our  annual  December holiday with his sister in-law, my  mother.  It  was  during  that  festive  period that we visited his wife Gwaggo Ummu who happens to be my mother’s first cousin. I  saw  the  president’s  nephew  sitting  on a sofa reading newspaper. I still recall how he paused at intervals and sipped his tea like a Tuareg. As a young boy then, he appeared to me as a conservative, introvert and intellectual who minds his business. Since  that  first  encounter,  it  became obligatory for me, at the prompting of my mother,  to  go  to  his  house  and  greet  his  wife, Gwaggo Ummu, whenever I go to Kaduna. Before  my  next  encounter  with  him  as  an  adult  aboard  the  British  Airways  flight to London, I was already part of the group of Nigerians who read and believed anything shared on social media platforms. This stereotype had become conventional by  the  time  his  uncle,  President  Buhari  assumed in 2015. It became so easy for an average man in  Sokoto,  PortHarcourt,  Maiduguri  or  Makurdi  to  blame  Daura  at  the  slightest  mosquito bite or anything bad under the sun. Many of us caved in to this stereotype despite our maturity, level of education and exposure. It was appalling how I remained glued  to  this  group  despite  my  level  of  education  and  exposure.  For someone who lived in London for five years and has visited almost all the major countries across the continents it was foolhardy to enslave your conscience to the cock and bull stories on social media. My  encounter  with  Daura  aboard  the  British Airways  flight  enroute  London reincarnated my first meeting with him 37 years ago. As usual, he was gently seated with his bunch of newspapers. On sighting him,  I  reluctantly  greeted  him  after  my  auntie had compelled me to. I greeted him involuntarily because of the social media (mis)information at my disposal. But my   subsequent encounter with Daura a couple of years ago after General Buhari had become president changed the negative perception I had about him. A close friend of mine had an important issue  to  discuss  with  him  and  he  sought  my  intervention.  Without  hesitating,  I  made  contact  to  book  an  appointment  with  him  to  discuss  the  issue.  I  told  my  friend that from the information I read on social media about him, it may take up to a month or more to secure the appointment but to my greatest surprise, I was asked to come at 5pm to see Daura the same day I booked the appointment. This, to me, was indeed incredible. I  was    enveloped in trepidation apparently out of the uncertainty   of   the  kind  of  man  I  was  going  to  meet.  Immediately  I  was  ushered  in,  I  was  dazed  by  another  shocker.  Despite the over 30-year age difference and his accomplishments   in   life,   Daura   still   stood up to me and said, “Ranka ya dade, Magaji.” I was dumbfounded, particularly as  my  mind  raced  back  to  that  Kaduna  encounter when I first saw him. To say that  I  was  both  awestruck  and  humbled  by  his  humility  is  to  say  the  least  in  the  mildest way. Then we turned to the issue that brought me to him.  We had a honest and free discussion and he suggested to us ways to go about addressing the matter frankly. As he saw me off to the car, the impression I had about Malam Mamman Daura from the views of self-appointed social media anarchists took  a  360  degree  turn.  And since then we have continued to interact at my request. The point  here  is  that  contrary   to  what  pestle-wielding  critics  would  want Nigerians to think, Daura is one Nigerian who  has  been  unfairly  misconstrued.  A  God-fearing man who prays five times a  day  in  a  congregation,  he  has  kept  his  obligation  to  the  Almighty  Allah  as  a  patriotic Northerner and a Nigerian. Those of  us  who  know  him  have  continued  to  pray to the Almighty God to become like him.  I  hope  gullible  and  ill-informed  Nigerians  may  have  the  opportunity  of  meeting  him  to  know  the  real  Mamman  Daura. His  interview  with  the  BBC  Hausa  Service  in  which  he  voiced  his  opinion  on 2023 and rotational presidency was a modest rendition of a man who is always burning  in  an  unquenchable  desire  to  contribute to national development. Daura only shared his personal views which he is  duly  entitled  to  as  not  just  a  Nigerian  but also an elder statesman of high repute. It   will   do   our   democracy   good   if   Nigerians  recognize  the  fact  that  every  citizen   is   entitled   to   his   opinion   on   whatever issue that is affecting the country. It is only democratic and moral for those who don’t share Malam Mamman Daura’s opinion to  come  up  with  theirs  without  maligning or vilifying him. From  past  historical  records,  there  is  no  doubt  that  those  opposed  to  Daura  because they don’t know him will certainly apologize to him for writing and spreading falsehood  against  him.  He  is  indeed  a  gentleman and a patriot who is wrongfully vilified by armchair critics and maligned by  gullible  Nigerians.  But  history  will  always vindicate the just.  – Danbaba is the Magajin Garin Sokoto