The legal defence team of former deputy governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr Obadiah Mailafia yesterday gave reasons why their client could not honour the police invitation in Abuja. Our correspondent reports that the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) had last week invited  Dr  Mailafia, to appear at the Force Headquarters in Abuja on Monday, August 24 for criminal investigation. He had earlier  been invited, quizzed and released  twice  by the Department of State Services (DSS) over some comments he made at a radio programme, alleging that a serving governor in one of the states in the North was a commander of Boko Haram. Addressing newsmen in Jos, Barrister Yakubu  Bawa said that they find the service of the  letter of invitation on Dr Mailafia by the Nigerian Police Force  through the office of the Deputy Inspector General of Police Force Criminal Investigation Department strange and alien to the extant laws and procedure. According to him, it is critically imperative to state that the case the Nigerian Police Force are investigating cannot be unconnected and unrelated with the case the DSS is investigating against him which borders on internal security. He said that it was sacrosanct to note also that the DSS is the only statutory body empowered by law to investigate alleged crime against internal security not Nigerian Police Force. The lawyer said that Section 3 (a) of the Security Agency Act eloquently stipulates this position and in consonance with the said provision, the DSS had assumed investigation into the matter. In his words “ For the purpose of clarity and emphasis the DSS is still investigating Dr Obadiah Mailafia in respect of the said matter. “As a legal defence to Dr Obadiah Mailafia ,we have carefully and meticulously analysed the letter of invitation served on him  as well as the intention of the Nigerian Police Force as clearly stated in the said letter of invitation and upon which we immediately approached the high court of Justice Plateau State and filed an action for the enforcement of his fundamental rights to personal liberty and fair hearing as enshrined in the constitution. We have served the Inspector General of Police, Deputy Inspector General of Police Force Criminal Investigation Department and the signatory of the said letter of invitation one DCP Omar Mamman Sanda by substituted means through the Commissioner of Police Plateau State Command having obtained a court order to do so. He said that they are praying the court to make a judicial pronouncement on the letter of invitation served on Dr Obadiah Mailafia, adding that they are equally subjecting the invitation made by the office of the DIG Force Criminal Investigation Abuja to Mailafia to appear for an interview on Monday under judicial scrutiny.