The European Union (EU) Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS has doubled the number of Nigerians selected for its Erasmus+ Scholarship amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Head of the Delegation, Ambassador Ketil Karlsen made this known at the virtual media briefing following the pre-Departure Orientation organized by the EU. Ambassador Karlsen said the increase indicates the importance of Africa, and in particular, Nigeria and Nigerian youths to the EU, and the value of vital education to development. About 93 Nigerians are beneficiaries of the 2020 EU Erasmus+ Scholarship, a considerable rise from the 44 awardees last year. Currently, Nigeria holds the highest number of beneficiaries of the scholarship from a single country in Africa, and presently among the six top countries globally, with the highest candidates for the scholarship. Commending Nigeria and Nigerian youths for the achievement, Karlsen said the EU, undeterred by the present situation of the globe, is rather strengthening its relationship with Africa and Nigeria. He further noted that the effort was also a means of strengthening legal and regular migration of Nigerian youths to Europe. “This shows our commitment to Nigerian youths. COVID-19 is impacting every aspect of our lives. We are trying to ensure that the relationship between Nigeria and Europe is not neglected.” The scholarship kicks off in September, the beginning school year for many European universities. However, with some countries yet to lift international travel bans, some of the students will start off with online courses with their universities, until the bans are lifted. Nigeria is currently reviewing processes to lift international travel ban in the nearest future. “All of the 93 beneficiaries have been taken care of. Some will start with online classes, others have been assured they will be able to leave for Europe as soon as possible,” noted the ambassador. Funded by the EU Fund for Education, the scholarship is set to last from 2014 to 2020. However, with European countries hard hit by COVID-19, the future of the funding for the scholarship is yet to be determined. “The next financial framework for the EU is being negotiated. But I must note Africa is an increased priority, especially Nigeria, and it makes me proud to know that more Nigerians are involved,” reiterated Karlsen. Nigeria’s Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, in his address to the awardees at the pre-departure orientation, urged them to be exemplary ambassadors of the country. “I want to implore beneficiaries that a lot of hope lies on your shoulders. Much is expected of you as beneficiaries of the Erasmus+ programme, and secondly, as ambassadors of Nigeria. You cannot afford to fail. You must use the knowledge and skills to be acquired from this programme to transform your society and the world at large,” the minister advised. So far, about 286 Nigerians have benefitted from the international study programme since 2014 to 2020. The prestigious scholarship enables awardees (under the annual selection rounds) from various universities across the country, to attend Masters or Doctoral study programmes in at least two European countries over a period of one to two years.