The NAF contributions to war against insurgency and the quest for national development cannot be overemphasised, as struggle for growth and advancement will be an exercise in futility without the provision of adequate security of lives and property, TARKAA DAVID writes. Nigeria, as a nation, has witnessed threats to its unity from separatist groups, ethnic agitation, tribal and religious bigots, but the military has continued to champion the cause of a one united and indivisible nation. The Nigerian Air Force, as an arm of the military, has been actively involved in protecting the country’s territorial integrity against both external aggressors and internal insurrection. In recent times, the activities of terrorists, armed bandits and kidnappers have posed significant threats to the nation’s physical and sociology-economic security, including food security. The Service has, following the Presidential directive to support civil authorities, deployed several air assets and elite forces to troubled spots to restore peace and order across the country. These, according to local authorities, have boosted confidence as business activities have picked up in those regions. Following constant aerial surveillance and air interdiction missions by the Nigerian Air Force as well as fighting patrols by security forces in some troubled zones, the criminals have withdrawn to the hinterlands giving room to farmers and other citizens to carry out their legitimate businesses. Several Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) have returned home to their ancestral homes and others resettled as it is obtained in Borno State. The Borno State government following the restoration of peace in some communities, has embarked on the resettlement programme of displaced persons in order to restore human dignity. To ensure effective air power projection, the NAF has scaled up assets and facilities deployments in the North East and North West Zones, including the recent installation of an aircraft hangar in Maiduguri. The Service has also established a virtual operating base and helicopter landing facilities in Damaturu, Yobe State. Aircraft Shelters, Apron and Hangar are currently under construction at the Katsina Airport. It is believed that, when functional, these facilities will further boost air operation to smoke the bandits out of the forests. The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, speaking when he received the governor of Gombe State, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, at NAF Headquarters, Abuja recently, said he had ordered the deployment of air assets as well as NAF Regiment and Special Forces (SF) personnel to Gombe State to beef up already existing security arrangements in the fight against insurgency and other related crimes in the state. In a statement by the director of Public Relations and Information Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, the CAS noted that the NAF, in conjunction with sister services and other security agencies, would continue to work tirelessly, round the clock, to secure the North East and defend Nigeria’s territorial integrity whilst ensuring the nation’s sovereignty is not undermined by any group of individuals. He commended the Gombe State Government for providing 230 hectares of land to the NAF for the establishment of a Forward Operating Base (FOB), which, he said, would boost the NAF’s operations. He said such a gesture showed the governor’s commitment towards ensuring that the good people of Gombe State and indeed the entire North East remains secured. aThe CAS stated that the NAF had flown an unprecedented 26,200 operational hours in the Counter-Insurgency operations in the North East, all to ensure the protection of the people and enable them to pursue their legitimate aspirations without fear. Air Marshal Abubakar, further reiterated that Nigeria was destined for greatness and no individual or group of individuals would be allowed to undermine its destiny. The CAS restated that since 2015, the NAF had significantly increased its presence in the North East to meet national security imperatives. He continued: “We now have the Headquarters of the Special Operations Command as well as a Reference Hospital and the 201 Composite Group located in Bauchi. We will also soon flag-off the construction of an aircraft hangar in Bauchi to enhance aircraft maintenance activities within the North East Theatre. “Apart from Bauchi State, we have also established a small unit in Damaturu, Yobe State to allow us to have a wider reach for our air operations. In Taraba State, we have a Quick Response Wing that is located in Gembu, an area that has suffered from farmers/herders clashes, which started about two years ago. “The Unit, which is made up of NAF Regiment and SF personnel, has been adding value to the security situation in that general area. From what I have said, you can see that we are virtually everywhere in the North East. “We recently emplaced a standard aircraft hangar in Maiduguri to improve aircraft maintenance capability. So, Your Excellency, we are highly committed to ensuring that our people are secured because we believe, just like you mentioned, that without security there cannot be development.’’ Abubakar stated further that, as customary, the NAF would, in the long run, establish medical facilities and schools at the Base in Gombe. Earlier in his remarks, Governor Yahaya commended the CAS for the bold step taken to establish the NAF FOB in Gombe State and thanked him for the NAF’s consistent support and contributions towards securing the lives and properties of Nigerians in the North Eastern States. He emphasised that Gombe’s central location would be an advantage in enhancing the NAF’s operations in the North East. He noted however that the State shares borders with Cameroon, Chad and Niger Republic, which makes it vulnerable to a range of security threats. “Gombe State is blessed with Solid Minerals, Oil and Gas, and other natural resources. This has given rise to the influx of people into the state which calls for more security concerns. These resources cannot be harnessed until the lives and properties of the people of Gombe State are well secured.” He assured that the State Government would provide the necessary support for the smooth take-off of the FOB as well as ensure that the personnel that would be deployed to Gombe State are adequately taken care of. More recently, the NAF as part of efforts to support ongoing operations in the North Western Zone of the country deployed Special Forces (SF) operatives to Southern Kaduna. Air Commodore Daramola in a statement said the SF Team was airlifted by a NAF Mi-171E Helicopter from NAF Base Kaduna to Kafanchan, where they joined the contingent Defence Headquarters (DHQ) SF personnel already deployed to the area under Sector 7 of Operation SAFE HAVEN. Addressing the troops, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who was represented by the Air Officer Commanding Air Training Command (AOC ATC), Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Musa Mukhtar, noted that the deployment was in line with DHQ Directives to beef up Operation SAFE HAVEN. It is instructive to note that the Southern part of Kaduna has in recent times experienced senseless killings by armed men and destruction of properties. These activities had brought to a halt the farming activities in the region thereby posing a threat to food security. Abubakar charged the SF personnel to maintain the high level of discipline that the NAF is known for whilst always upholding the NAF’s core values of ‘Integrity’, ‘Service before Self’ and ‘Excellence’ as they carry out their assigned tasks. He reminded them to ensure they respect the human rights and personal freedoms of all law-abiding citizens in the course of performing their duties. Even though concerned citizens frowned at the publicity stunt that followed deployment, Air Marshal Abubakar stated that the NAF SF Team were to augment the DHQ SF personnel already deployed to beef up Sector 7 of Operation SAFE HAVEN in Southern Kaduna. “The deployment would last as long as necessary until lasting peace is restored. We also have Operation THUNDER STRIKE, which is domiciled in Kaduna to take care of the North West axis, with the Air Component Commander coordinating the air power aspect from Kaduna in support of ground operations in Southern Kaduna,’’ he said. He further disclosed that, as part of efforts to enhance Civil-Military relations, a NAF Medical Team would arrive Southern Kaduna in the coming days to conduct medical outreach to provide healthcare services to displaced persons and others affected by the crisis. While highlighting that the military was in the State to assist the civil populace, the CAS called on the residents of Southern Kaduna to cooperate with the Commander Operation SAFE HAVEN and his troops by providing credible information that would facilitate the effective conduct of their operations. Similarly, the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum, during a visit to the Chief of the Air Staff commended the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) for consistent responsiveness in its counter-insurgency operations in Borno state and the entire North East of the country. He said the commitment and dedication of the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, as well as officers, airmen and airwomen of the NAF had curtailed the activities of the insurgents and limited their scope of operations. Gov Zulum, while commending the NAF for its consistent contributions towards the restoration of lasting peace to Borno State and other States in the North East, also appreciated the Service for regularly providing airlift support to the State Government. He further lauded the NAF’s humanitarian interventions in the State, including its numerous medical outreaches and the Level 2 Hospitals established by the Service at the Bama and Dalori Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) Camps, which provide free, qualitative healthcare services to the IDPs. While highlighting the need for political solutions to address the root causes of the insurgency, which, he said, included poverty, illiteracy and unemployment, amongst others, the Governor noted that there was urgent need to ensure the return of IDPs to their homes in a safe and dignified manner. Zulum further noted that, while the State had suffered a number of attacks in the past 2 years or so, over 90 per cent of these had been successfully repelled through the robust, timely actions of the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE. He, therefore, commended the ATF for its consistent speedy response. “Whenever I receive any report of an attack or crisis in any location, I immediately call the ATF Commander and within a few minutes, the NAF aircraft are usually airborne to deal with the issue,” he said. He said Borno State and indeed the entire Nation would therefore continually remain indebted to the efforts of the NAF under the current leadership and further solicited for sustained joint air and land offensive against specific areas within the Lake Chad and Sambisa Forest areas, observing specifically that the Lake Chad was, at a time, responsible for the employment of over 10 Million people. He said there was a need to ensure a return of normalcy to the area in order for the people to reap the socio-economic benefits of the Lake. Responding, the CAS noted that the NAF, in collaboration with sister Services and other security agencies, would continue to work tirelessly to ensure the security of the people of Borno State and the entire North East. He assured that the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies would not allow any individual or groups to undermine the Nation’s territorial integrity or sovereignty. Air Marshal Abubakar added that the ability of the Service to carry out its constitutional roles had continued to be boosted by the provision of adequate resources by the Federal Government. He noted that the NAF, with the support of the Federal Government, had acquired 22 brand new aircraft and was expecting another 17 manned aircraft, while 10 Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicles (UCAVs) had also been procured and would be deployed for various operations to cover the vast 705,000 square kilometres area of the North East, North West and North Central States. Speaking further, the CAS disclosed that, since 2015, the NAF had significantly scaled up its presence in the North East to meet national security imperatives. He also disclosed that, while the NAF had emplaced an aircraft maintenance hangar in Maiduguri to improve maintenance capability for aircraft deployed in the North East Theatre, the Service was also on the verge of establishing a new Forward Operating Base (FOB) in Gombe State Air Marshal Abubakar concluded his remarks by assuring the Governor that, with the increased presence of the NAF in all the States of the North East as well as the deployment of additional air assets, insurgency and other forms of insecurity would soon be stamped out. For any meaningful development, the security of lives and properties must be guaranteed. This, of course, requires a multifaceted approach and the political will to seek justice for every citizen. Investment in this regard cannot be said to be enough until the required equipment is emplaced and judiciously used for the greater good just as the Nigerian Air Force has continued to blaze the trail in this regard.