The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has urged
President Muhammadu Buhari to rescind his assent to the Companies and
Allied Matters Act, 2020. SERAP, which made the call in an open letter to the president, is also
asking the National Assembly to address its fundamental flaws by
deleting the repressive provisions of the Act. The civil society organization, in the letter dated August 22, 2020
and signed by its Deputy Directo,r Kolawole Oluwadare, listed some of
the offensive provisions of the law as sections 839, 842, 843, 844 and
850 contained in Part F of the Act. SERAP specifically wants the President to, “instruct the
Registrar-General of the Corporate Affairs Commission, Alhaji Garba
Abubakar, and Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of
Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, not to implement or enforce the CAMA
2020 until the legislation is repealed by the National Assembly, and
brought in line with the Constitution of Nigeria 1999 (as amended),
and Nigeria’s international human rights obligations. “With these provisions, the government now has overly broad and
discretionary powers to arbitrarily withdraw, cancel or revoke the
certificate of any association, suspend and remove trustees, take
control of finances of any association, and to merge two associations
without their consent and approval of their members. “Rather than taking concrete measures to improve the legal environment
and civic space that would ensure respect for human rights and media
freedom, your government has consistently pursued initiatives to
restrict the enjoyment of citizens’ human rights. These rights are
protected from impairment by government action. “These restrictions, coupled with repressive broadcasting codes and
Nigerian security agencies’ relentless crackdown on peaceful
protesters and civil society, demonstrate the government’s intention
to suppress and take over independent associations. “SERAP is concerned that the provisions would be used by the
authorities to exert extensive scrutiny over the internal affairs of
associations, as a way of intimidation and harassment, which would
eventually unduly obstruct the legitimate work carried out by
associations. “We would be grateful if the requested action and measures are taken
within 14 days of the receipt and/or publication of this letter. If we
have not heard from you by then, the Registered Trustees of SERAP
shall take all appropriate legal actions to compel you and your
government to take these measures in the public interest. “Please note that SERAP has instructed its Legal Counsel Femi Falana,
SAN to take all appropriate legal actions on our behalf should your
government fail and/or neglect to act as requested. “Citizens’ decision to join with others in pursuit of a common goal is
a fundamental aspect of their liberty. The right to freedom of
association also plainly presupposes a freedom not to associate. This
freedom is at risk if the government can compel a particular citizen,
or a discrete group of citizens, to merge their associations. “Constitutional guarantees of freedom of association would be very
limited if they are not accompanied by a guarantee of being able to
share one’s beliefs of ideas in community with others, particularly
through associations of individuals having the same beliefs, ideas or
interests. “Similarly, freedom of association creates a forum for citizens in
which they may freely seek, without any unlawful interference by the
state, to move public opinion and achieve their goals. That “forum”
cannot exist if the government is at liberty to treat one association
as forming part of another or coercing one association to merge with
another association. “By seeking to suspend and remove trustees, and appoint interim
managers for associations, the government seems to want to place
itself in a position to politicise the mandates of such association,
and to undermine the ideas that the right to freedom of association
and related rights are supposed to protect in a democratic society. “SERAP believes that the government granting itself the powers to
suspend and remove trustees of legally registered associations and to
take control of their bank accounts constitutes an effective restraint
on human rights. “Allowing the government to take control of the bank accounts of
association would impact on the rights of the associations, and also
seriously undermine civil, cultural, economic, political and social
rights as a whole.”