First Lady, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, said yesterday that she has fully recovered from her illness and now back home in Nigeria. News had filtered in last week that the wife of the president was flown to the UAE for a medical emergency. But on arrival to the country, the First Lady disclosed on her personal twitter handle that on her way back to the country, the Nigerian Airforce Flight encountered a violent clear air turbulence which was navigated safely and professionally by the Captain and crew of the Flight. She said, “I want to use this opportunity to thank all Nigerians for their prayers and well wishes while I was away for medical treatment in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). I am well now and fully recovered and have since returned back home, Nigeria. “On our way back, the Nigerian Airforce Flight encountered a violent clear air turbulence which was navigated safely and professionally by the Captain and crew of the Flight. “I want to commend and appreciate the courage and professionalism of the Captain and his crew, the wonderful gallant service men and women of the entire Nigerian Airforce for their dedication to duty and the quality of maintainance of its Fleet. “I recall hosting the private healthcare Providers earlier in the year and we had a very productive engagement where the issue of building the capacity of Nigeria health sector was the major focus, and funding was discovered to be the major challenge”. The First Lady also called on the healthcare providers to take the advantage of the Federal Government’s initiative through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) guidelines for the operation of NGN100 Billion Credit Support for the Healthcare Sector as was released recently contained in a circular dated March 25, 2020 to the Commercial Bank. She said, “This will no doubt help in building and expanding the capacity of the Nigerian health sector and ultimately reduce medical trips and tourism outside the Country. “Once again, I thank our frontline workers, and all Nigerians for their steadfastness as we navigate the challenges facing the entire world”.