.. I Don’t Want You Again The last might not have been heard about the pathetic story of Risikat Azeez, 30, the blue-eyed mother of  two as her estranged husband, AbdulWasiu Omo-Dada, denied rejecting her and her children.  Risikat who is an indigene of Ikoyi in Osun state was said to have been abandoned by her husband because their two children also have blue eyes like their mother.  But, Risikat’s husband, AbdulWasiu of Olomoyoyo compound, Dada, Okelele in Ilorin East local government area of Kwara state told LEADERSHIP Weekend that he had not at anytime rejected his wife and her two children.  Accusations and denials by Risikat and AbdulWasiu, notwithstanding, reprieve has started  coming  the way of Risikat and her children.  One Alfa Aribidesi was said to have kick-started donations for the upkeep of the poor woman and her children.  A popular cleric who lives besides Risikat’s mother house at Ayegbami area, off Sobi Specialist Hospital road, Alagbado- Okelele, Ilorin, Alfa Mohammed Jamiu Ajijola-Anabi told our reporter how Alfa Aribidesi flagged off an appeal fund for the woman and her children on the last Eid-el-Kabir day, 31 July, 2020.  “Our sincere appreciation goes to Alfa Aribidesi who on the last Sallah day launched an appeal fund for Risikat. After the Eid prayer at our neighbourhood mosque, Alfa Aribidesi drew the attention of the people to Risikat’s plight. He announced a donation of N150.00 and others followed suit. Thereafter, a young lady in our area posted Risikat’s story on the Facebook and since then kind-hearted people from across the country have been sending gifts, both in cash and in kind to Risikat and her children. “Some people even came to do make-up for her and the children to make them look more beautiful. It took about three hours before the make-up artists completed their works on them,” Ajijola-Anabi explained.  The Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, reportedly sent an emissary to Ilorin last Saturday to announce his decision to offer Risikat’s children full scholarship for their education.  The minister said that the scholarship would be sponsored by DAD foundation – a foundation he set up about three years ago in honour of his late father.  Touched by the plight of Risikat, the wife of the immediate past President of the Senate, Toyin Saraki, also sent a donation of N250,000 to her.  Mrs Saraki’s donation was delivered to Risikat last Saturday by a team of community midwives and women leaders under her pet projects – Alaafia Kwara Initiative and the Wellbeing Foundation Africa.  The wife of Kwara State governor, Mrs Olufolake AbdulRazaq also donated N250,000 for the upkeep of Risikat and her children.  Risikat’s husband, Abdulwasiu Omo-Dada, during an interview with LEADERSHIP Weekend, however, insisted that there was no iota of truth in the allegations that he drove his wife out of his house because of the colour of her eyes or that of her children.  “We usually have misunderstanding but never because of her eyes as she is telling people. I married her because of the colour of her eyes so why would I drive her out because of it. The issue is that when she gave birth the second time, she gave birth to twins but unfortunately one of the twin had a condition that warranted us taking them both to the hospital. “I spent all my earnings at the UITH. In fact I had to sell my plot of land and the building I was constructing on it to take care of the child but unfortunately the child died. “Few months after, her family insisted we should formalise our marriage because her siblings had already done theirs and she was the only one left behind. I didn’t have money but I struggled for what I could get and did what I could do; it was after this that she decided to pack her things and leave my house,” he stated.  According to Wasiu who is a vulcanizer, since Risikat left his house, he had been going to her family house to play his role but she had refused to come back to him.  Buttressing this, a sibling of the husband, Dauda Aje, said, “Wasiu didn’t abandon her at all, he did his best for her. If she said it was not enough, it is good, but saying he abandoned her and the children is not correct.”  Another sibling of Wasiu,  Saheed Jimoh, said that the two of them (Wasiu and Risikat) were inseparable lovebirds, always wearing the same colour of cloth.  “My brother was proud of her and showed her off at any given opportunity. Why she decided to malign him now is what we don’t understand, after all she was the one who packed out of his house.” On how his wife left his house, Wasiu stated: “When we started having misunderstanding she would cook food and tell me that my own was not involved and I would have to go out and look for what to eat. None of my parents nor family members ever said they hated her because of the colour of her eyes. I wish she can be here and point out the person that said that. “She just decided to pack and leave my house immediately after we finished doing the naming ceremony of our children. She packed everything including our pictures and the receipts of the money I spent at UITH. She didn’t tell me anything neither did we fight or anything. “My parents went to their house to ask why their daughter packed out and they said it was her father that said she should pack out. My parents demanded to know why her parents decided to slight them by asking their daughter to pack out without bringing anything to their notice but no response. “As I stand like this, I don’t have another wife since she left. And I go to their house at intervals with rice, beans. I cannot stay within a month without buying foodstuff for them and the neighbours can bear me witness. I still love her and still want her back. When she took delivery of the twins the other one had health problems and we took them both to the hospital. I didn’t buy drugs of one thousand, it started from N3,000, N5,000 through N10,000 and any drug I bought for the one that was ill was the one I must buy for the other but I didn’t shy away from my responsibility since I had the money then. We spent three months in the hospital and spent heavily. No member of her family nor mine paid a dime; I was the only one bearing the responsibility.” 