For calling him the ‘Supreme Court Governor’, Imo State governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma, has asked the National Judicial Council (NJC),
the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice (AGF),
Abubakar Malami (SAN); the leadership of the National Assembly among
others to prosecute those behind the alleged act. Specifically, Uzodima urged the trio of NJC, AGF and NASS to bring
some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) stalwarts in Imo State who are behind the appellation, ‘the
Supreme Court Governor.’ The governor who is visibly disturbed over the label said the PDP
members are perpetually referring to him as the ‘Supreme Court
Governor’ at every available opportunity. In a document circulating in the local tabloid in the state tagged:
‘Petition against Mr. Ogubundu Nwadike, the Imo State Publicity
Secretary for the PDP”, and signed by the Special Adviser to the state
governor on Political Matters, Chief Batos Chikezie, he demanded that
Nwadike and his cohorts should desist from making such “wicked
propaganda and blackmail characteristically designed to incite and
delude the people of the state thereby misdirecting them to disregard
the judiciary.” The governor called on the NJC to bring Nwadike to book and charge
him for contempt for “persistently making mockery of the decision and
proceeding of the Supreme Court on the Imo State gubernatorial
election, thereby making them look compromised and biased in the eyes
of the public which is a dent on their integrity and pedigree. “We call on the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) to quickly
clampdown on Nwadike as a practicing journalist, and require that all
media outlets blacklist him from their stables, blogs, pages and
airtime in referencing a duly elected government as an ‘Abuja/Supreme
Court Government’, which is a calculated attempt to incite the people
of the state and dent the image of the most esteemed judiciary arm of
government.” The political adviser to the governor maintained that “since January
14, 2020, when the Supreme Court in a monumental judgement on the state
gubernatorial election declared Uzodimma as the duly elected governor
of the state and asked the authorities to issue him a certificate of
return and to be sworn in accordingly, Nwadike continued to refer to
Uzodimma as the ‘Supreme Court Governor’ and Chief Emeka Ihedioha as
the elected governor of the state in the print, electronic and social
media.” In his reaction, Nwadike, who talked to newsmen, dismissed the
petition against him, noting that the special adviser to the governor
“is known for his noise-making that nobody takes him seriously.” He, however, alleged that his (Batos) action had actually exposed the
nuances of the present administration of Uzodimma by “indirectly
telling Nigerians and Imo citizens in particular that the governor is
a ‘Supreme Court Governor’.” 