A front runner for the Cross River North Senatorial district seat in
the red chamber, Mr. Harry Thomas-Odey, has stated that his candidacy
will entrench the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a party to note
in the state and indeed the South South region. Thomas-Odey further stated that his cross-appeal from all political
parties across board puts him in a vantage position to add value to
the senatorial district. Speaking to journalists at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja after
picking his nomination and interest forms, the contestant also stated
the constitution of the Matthew Mbu-led State chapter of the party was
a right step in the direction to peace. He said, “The truth of the matter is that Cross River is made up of
Cross Riverians and of different persuasions, one had associated with
different models and people know me. People don’t necessarily ascribe
politics to the thing we do rather they will ascribe to the yearning
for development and that is really what the confidence is, going into
this race. We have cross appeal and people from the different sides of
the divide know what our antecedents are, and people are out to
deliberately vote for the one who is out to make a difference. “I will also say yes, that I am a grass root person because I have a
cross-appeal which means that people from PDP and other parties know,
and associate with the kind of stuff we have done in the past, and it
is really that good will that has been engendered that is propelling
this move to come and be of service. “I can also say that based on the experiences we have, we are going to
make this relationship between the legislators and the citizens a
model and reduce the aspect where citizens complain that they cannot
reach their representative and bring a model that to a great extent,
people are satisfied. While commenting on the Caretaker committee, he said: “We are
particularly pleased with the Interim National Caretaker Committee of
the APC for deeming it fit, and trying to build consensus not only in
Cross River state but across the 6 geopolitical zones. “Cross River was not very rancorous because as a people, we are one.
We may appear disparate but we are one at the end of the day.  We
speak to ourselves and we are able to communicate. Yes, there were
factions but we are so pleased with the very deft appointment that
Interim National Working Committee has made in order to put the issue
of divisions in the APC to rest. It is a good choice of most
distinguished Matthew Mbu as the chairman of the state APC and we are
confident that will get the needed support required in order to be
able to make a formidable party. “We need a lot of work however, to be able to undo the PDP not only in
this senatorial election but in the gubernatorial election in 2023. We
believe that with the appointment of the new chairman, work can now
start.” On the mode of primary, Odey said, “The NWC will check and prescribe
what it considers as fit for the purpose. As for me and my partners in
progress, whichever one they prescribe, we will go with it because
they have the prerogative of what mode of primaries should be
deployed.