As more Nigerians are forced out of their homes by this year’s floods, health experts have predicted an upsurge in the outbreak of water-borne diseases across the country. The experts also decried the rising threat of cholera, diarrhea and malaria which are easily spread through contaminated floodwater. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) had earlier alerted that 28 states and 102 local government areas might be at risk of flooding due to impending heavy rainfall. According to Dr Ini Abasi Nglas, Northeast Malaria Focal Person, World Health Organisation (WHO), malaria, cholera, diarrhea, among others, are linked to flooding. Nglas said mosquito needs a breeding ground which is water, adding that with flooding now all over the place, it is likely that there would be increased population of mosquitoes, which automatically translates to increase in malaria. He said, “With floodnow, we have to take measures against diseases that are linked to flooding. Government should do more to tackle flooding. “I see they are already evacuating the gutters, it doesn’t end there. After removing those things, they should be packed and properly disposed of. Water points water vendors use to get water for people should be properly chlorinated and ensure those places are clean”. Also speaking, Mala Waziri, Borno State coordinator of Malaria Elimination Programme, said recently the state experienced flooding in some of the communities, adding that this has caused water to pool in so many places, the effect of which is breeding of mosquitoes around places people live. He noted: “And the more you have a lot of mosquitoes around, the more mosquito bites, and definitely there will be high level of malaria infection. If such infection is not detected and treated as early as possible, it leads to severe malaria, where it can lead to death especially children under the age of five. “People should ensure maintenance of drainages and avoid dumping refuse on it. They should make their drainages clean,” Waziri suggested. A medical expert in Bauchi State, Dr Isah Ayuba, said excessive flooding in some communities in the state could result in cholera if not properly managed. The head of medical services Remee Medicare said flooding can contaminate water which poses serious medical challenges for affected communities. “Diseases that normally break out when there is flooding in a community are cholera, diarrhea and malaria; because stagnant water is a breeding ground for mosquitoes,” Ayuba said. According to him, because of the cold weather, people living in a flooded area are likely to have respiratory tract infections, “in addition to skin infection that is highly likely because of the dirty nature of the environment.” He said waterborne diseases associated with flooding pose danger to children with weak immune systems, “especially the under-fives are mostly affected, and adults are not spared from it though. “The health challenges associated with the aftermath of flooding are not quite different from those encountered when the flood is on.  The freshwater that people used before the incident now get contaminated with dirty, human and animal wastes which rendered water sourced from well as an open reservoir which is unhealthy for human consumption,” he added. The medical practitioner added that fresh vegetables people eat also get contaminated with all “sorts of dirt and there is seemingly no source of fresh water available to be used to wash such vegetables before consumption.” LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that flooding had in recent days devastated some communities in Ningi local government area of Bauchi State, destroying roads and a popular Bauchi-Kano bridge along that road. The affected communities have continued to count losses as authorities promise quicker intervention. In Kogi, the state government has said all hands are currently on deck to avert flooding in the state, just as it hinted that it is studying how the predicament would be like. The state commissioner for Health told journalists in Lokoja yesterday that government was aware of the possible outbreak of epidemics in these camps and is worried about it, adding that his ministry was being empowered to actively prevent the outbreak of an epidemic. He said the government is acquiring mobile toilets to distribute to the high grounds that could provide temporary points in case of emergency as measures to keep the state clean and avert cholera.  He further hinted that the state government was already considering some post-flooding effects of the devastation caused by the release of water from dams along rivers Niger and Benue, which caused a surge in the rivers’ levels. In Benue State, the director for Public Health, Doctor Terna Kur, has advised citizens of the state to be cautious of their environment by protecting themselves against the effects of flood. Kur told LEADERSHIP Sunday that flood comes with breeding of vectors and contamination of drinking water sources. “During and after flood, citizens should expect cholera, typhoid outbreak among other diseases, as well as weather changes due to heavy rainfall”, the medical expert said, adding that an outbreak can lead to upper respiratory tract infections, and so people should watch out for all these by taking precautions. He stated: “I remember very well that after the 2014 flood, there were lot of movement of rodents and that was the time the first confirmed case of Lassa fever was reported in the state. “So, citizens should be aware that even reptiles and rodents are also displaced from their normal habitats during flooding, and if one is not careful, these reptiles and rodents can find their ways into their houses thereby making people vulnerable to bites and possible transmission of diseases related to them to humans,” he said. While advising the citizens who reside in flood-prone areas in the state to move to safer places, Dr Kur also warned people against leaving their doors open while sleeping. He also appealed to citizens to report immediately to the nearest health centre anytime they notice any symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection for quick medical attention. “Also, when they notice visible contamination of drinking water sources, they should make sure they either boil, filter  and or use a chemical to treat the water before drinking,” he said. Dr Kur further enjoined all citizens to always imbibe the culture of sleeping in their mosquito nets especially now that the mosquitoes are breeding.