Pension Fund Administrators in the country are inundated by request from disengaged workers for their pension, LEADERSHIP Sunday investigations have revealed. Findings by this paper showed that between April and June this year, over 30,000 sacked workers have applied for 25 per cent of the contribution in their Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs). The increasing spate of retrenchment and shutting down of companies majorly in the private sector following the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has compelled disengaged workers to turn to their pension contributions by accessing part of their savings. The Pension Reforms Act (PRA) 2014 allows contributors under the age of 50 years who were disengaged from work and unable to secure another job within four months of disengagement to access 25 per cent of their individual RSAs. The most affected are workers whose employers were previously contributing monthly pensions on their behalf but had to disengage them because the companies downsized or closed shops. To this end, this category of workers was allowed to access 25 per cent of their contributions to make ends meet. The pension industry regulator, the National Pension Commission (PenCom), which gives final approval to such applications, confirmed to LEADERSHIP Sunday that the PFAs had in the last few months witnessed surge in applications for 25 per cent contributions. It was also learnt that while most of the applications have been cleared, others are at advanced stage of getting approval, while fresh applications are trickling in as well. Some of the beneficiaries, industry sources disclosed, are investing the money in their business ideas in a bid to become self-employed, while some use the funds to meet their immediate financial needs. Head, Corporate Communications of PenCom, Mr Peter Aghahowa, told our correspondent that because of the increase in applications, the commission has strengthened the department responsible for treating such cases, even as he attributed the increase in application to the downturn in the economy occasioned by COVID-19. He said the commission has already instructed PFAs to prepare for upsurge in the 25 per cent application as workers keep losing their jobs on daily basis. Aghahowa who noted that the development shows the beauty of the new pension scheme assured that the commission will not hesitate to grant any application as long as it is genuine and fulfills the needed requirements. He said the pandemic has affected the ension industry the way it has affected other sectors of the economy, adding that the pension asset growth could be slower in the next few months or years until the economy recovers fully. He stated: “The rate of growth of pension asset could be slow because companies that naturally contributed monthly no longer exist. This means that contributions from that end is no more. Even the existing ones are struggling to meet their pension obligations as at when due. “Similarly, the Return on Investment of pension asset is now low, but the beauty of this is that pension fund investment is long term. So, it can recover what it lost when the economy improves.” The director, Centre for Pension Right Advocacy (CPRA), Mr Ivor Takor, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that such deductions would not have major impact on the entire pension asset because the industry has an accumulated savings of N10.57trillion over the years. He said although he expects pension contribution compliance to be slow this time as companies and individuals embark on survival first before making plans for pension savings, things will change for better as soon as the threatening virus subsides in the country. “It is just a phase that I expect will not linger for too long. As soon as we are able to suppress COVID-19, the nation’s economy will recover as well as the pension sector,” he pointed out. Meanwhile, no fewer than 90,000 workers from both public and private sectors were registered into the new pension scheme by their employers within the first five months of the current year. The Pension Reforms Act (PRA) 2004 prescribes for an employer to contribute equivalent of 10 per cent of a worker’s salary as well as 8 per cent deducted from the worker’s salary to make a cumulative 18 per cent contribution which must be remitted into the Retirement Savings Accounts (RSAs) of each worker   monthly. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that while some employers were avoiding this additional financial commitment by not registering their workers under the pension scheme, some companies are beginning to realise the advantages of having a pension plan for their workers, which accounts for why the 90,000 workers were conscripted into the scheme during the most challenging part of the year. Data obtained from the pension industry regulator, PenCom, shows that between January and May this year, greater part of which falls under the lockdown, 90,000 workers became RSA holders. Further breakdown revealed that the RSA registration in January alone was 8.93million and rose to 9.02million by the end of May, 2020. The commission also reported that pension fund assets stood at N10.80 trillion in May, noting that N7.20 trillion of the assets, which is 66.74 per cent, was invested in federal government securities.