In a bid to improve efficiencies in licensure, inspection and quality monitoring, Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA) says it has transformed from manual to electronic processes,  using a digital tool with support from PharmAccess Foundation. The Health Facility Inspection Tool tagged ‘HealthFIT’ is an android-based mobile application designed for the inspection and monitoring of health facilities within Lagos State. The application supports geolocation mapping and collates data on quality monitoring, while the central database hosts and analyses collated data, updating relevant visualizations in real-time. The tool includes a web interface for user access with dashboards highlighting defined indicators and pre-specified analysis. PharmAccess Foundation recently trained HEFAMMA inspectors and other administrative staff of the Agency on the use of HealthFIT in preparation for the 2-week field pilot of the application. During the training session, the Executive Secretary of the Agency Dr. Abiola Idowu, disclosed that the tool will enhance efficient inspection and monitoring of health facilities in the State. She expressed confidence that when the application is fully operational, healthcare facility monitors and inspectors in the State will have the benefit of delivering credible and objective reports with faster and seamless operations and will go a long way in enhancing staff productivity. PharmAccess Country Director, Ms. Njide Ndili reaffirmed support to enable efficiency using digital tools and stated that “technology is an enabler, critical for transparency, efficiency and effectiveness especially in the healthcare system”. She reiterated PharmAccess’ commitment to supporting HEFAMAA and the State Ministry of Health to improve the quality of healthcare services in Lagos State, stating that the HealthFIT app will allow easy collection, processing, and management of data on a simple interface which is essential for empanelment of qualified providers onto the Lagos State Health Insurance Scheme. Whilst facilitating the training session, the Digital Innovations Manager PharmAccess Foundation, Dr. Ademola Serrano emphasized that the digital transformation of HEFAMAA will drive its operational efficiency, improve cost savings, enhance transparency, and boost accountability. PharmAccess has also supported the Agency in developing the eHEFAMAA platform which is a website that provides information on HEFAMAA as well as a portal that allows submission and processing of applications for health facility registration including renewal of annual registrations. 