The Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), has inaugurated a national executive three months after an electoral crisis that left the organization without national leadership. The new executives were elected after a keenly contested election in Abuja yesterday saw writer and lawyer, Mr. Ahmed Maiwada as the National President, Professor Ngozi Chinna Udeh as the Vice President, and author & the Special Adviser to the Speaker of Ekiti State on Media Matters, Akogun Tai Oguntayo as the General Secretary. Other elected executives include Mr. Patrick Oguejiofor as Assistant General Secretary, Owupele Francis as Treasurer, Usho Smith as the association’s Financial Secretary; Banma Suleiman as Public Relations Officer (North), and Dada Korede as Public Relations Officer (South); Dr. Moses Joseph as Auditor. Isa Ibrahim Dan Musa emerged the ex-Officio 2, while the immediate past National General Secretary, Dr Ofonime Inyang assumed the position of the ex-Officio 1. In his inaugural speech, President Maiwada assured members that his administration will be all inclusive.
“In the past, we have seen individuals take the reins of ANA and rule as an autocracy, dictator and maximum leaders. I will ensure that everybody will be in the picture of hat we are going to do. As we are aware, Nigeria is blessed with young people who are talented, and we are very lucky to have among these talented ones many who are literary enthusiasts,” Maiwada said. He further noted the new executive will meet with all of the association’s (living) founders to tap from their wealth of experience, adding that “the law is on our side but instead of using the law, we shall use love.” He urged the out-going executives to work with him to move the association in the right direction. The re-election is a follow-up to the cancelled election scheduled to take place last November at the association’s national convention in Enugu State. Following the stalemate, a five-man electoral committee consisting of ANA members Professors Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo, Remi Raji, Mr. Odia Ofeimun, Mr. Okenyedo Diego and Mr. Yemi Adebiyi by the association’s congress to recommend further course of action. “The congress gave the electoral committee and chapter chairmen 180 days to resolve the logjam as provided for by the constitution but after about 100 days, 23 out of the 28 registered ANA chairmen came together to resolve the matter. 20 of the chairmen attended today’s meeting with their secretaries and other critical stakeholders,” said the group. The body also noted that prior to the election, three new members of the electoral committee – Chairman ANA Bayelsa, Dr. Akpos Adesi, Chairman ANA Ogun State, Mr. Paul Oni, and Chairman ANA Kano, Mr. Zaheraddeen Ibrahim Kallah were elected to replace the three committee members – Professors Akachi Adimora-Ezeigbo, Remi Raji, and Odia Ofeimun, who had resigned. State Chapters present at the event include, Abuja, Plateau, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Kebbi, Taraba, Katsina, Zamfara, Niger, Kaduna, Ekiti, Lagos, Edo, Osun, Ogun, Nasarawa, Adamawa, Anambra, Kano, Gombe and Sokoto states.