National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Yobe State, in collaboration with Fune Local Government Area have organised a sensitization campaign on CoronaVirus and Lassa Fever for rural dwellers in Dogon Kuka town of Damagun local government area of Yobe state. Leadership learnt that, the programme witnessed free medical outreach and Drugs to the community members under Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers (HIRD) sponsored by Fune Local Government Area. Speaking to our correspondent shotly after the programme, Coordinator, NYSC Yobe State, Mrs. Grace K. Adzer represented by the Zonal Inspector Mohammed Mohammed, said hundreds of people were invited from the rural areas especially the less privileged ones to benefit from the programme. According to him, ” I will like to use this opportunity to tell you that, We are sensitizing them also giving them free medical care, treatment and drugs, Fune Local Government Area has been very supportive in ensuring that we have a disease prevention mechanisms” he said. Addressing the rural populace, a Corp member Dr. Abdulrahman Lawan YB/19A/1464 said that Lassa Fever is transmitted by a specie of Rat and communicable in nature. He added that, ” I want to tell you that, You can protect yourself by washing your hands with soap and running water frequently before and after eating, after using toilet, touching animals or animal waste, covering mouth and nose with a disposable tissue when coughing or sneezing, avoiding close contact with anyone who shows symptoms, seek medical care if you have fever, cough or difficulty breathing” However, on the issues of Coronavirus, Nurse Mubarak Yahuza YB/19B/0340 said that, the Fever, cough, runny nose, sore throat and trouble breathing are some of the most common symptoms of the novel coronavirus. He lamented that, the disease can be fatal. Older people, and people with pre-existing medical conditions (such as diabetes and heart disease) appear to be more vulnerable to becoming severely ill with the virus He urges people to use mask and proper disposal, improved hygiene, frequent hand wash, good sanitation of environment and avoidance of coughing with open face in public places. The District Head of Dogon Kuka town, Abubakar B. Mohammed thanked the NYSC and Fune Local Government for the intervention “this education and free medical care will go a long way in cushioning our living conditions as well as enabling us to avoid being infected by Corona virus and Lassa Fever”. He called on the people of the area to giving their support and cooperation to the healthcare personnel as well as National Youths service corps members in order to enlighten regular camping across the community.