The Department of State Security Service has denied media reports of laying siege on premium times and hacked the phones of one of its staff. Reacting to media that Personnel of the Service are currently laying siege to the office of Premium Times, the spokesperson of the Service, Dr. Peter Afunanya “the report that the DSS  is laying siege on premium times and has hacked the phones of one of its staff is false in its entirety. “It is unfounded and just a needless  sensationalism.  There is no such operation at the moment by the Service targeted at the Premium Times, its editor or staff. If there is any need for the DSS to discharge its duty, it sure have to do that with every sense of decency and in accordance with laid down procedures.” He further noted that “Now, the Service is not anywhere near the news agency. Therefore, the report should be disregarded.” Some reports on online platforms had stated “officials of the agency also took strategic positions around the home of the newspaper’s Editor-in-Chief, Mr Muskilu Mojeed, on Sunday morning in an attempt to arrest him. “ Two men wearing mufti in fact went to Mojeed’s house on Sunday morning and told Haulat, his wife, that they had a message for her husband. “They tried to pressure her to open the gate to the house to receive their message for her husband but the woman insisted on having the ‘message’ passed through the small opening on the gate, according to ICIR. “ After trying effortlessly to have the woman open the gate, the men turned and left, driving off in a tinted black vehicle.” The report also recalled that the DSS had earlier launched a manhunt for Samuel Ogundipe, an investigative reporter with Premium Times, over a report on the rift between Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari, and National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno. The report also alleged that the service was angry at the report, which exposed a memo written by Monguno accusing Kyari of undue interference on matters bordering on national security.