As Nigeria battles to contain the deadly Coronavirus and its devastating effect on the nation’s economy, the federal government hinted yesterday that it may have to drop its plans to borrow $22.718 billion to finance infrastructure and other social development projects. A major reason the federal government is presently considering the suspension of the external borrowings is the unfolding events of the past few months with particular regard to coronavirus pandemic and the oil price crash at the international market. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, gave the signal yesterday on the sidelines of the 2020 International Conference on the Nigerian commodities market organised by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in Abuja. The proposal for the external borrowing was recently stood down by the House of Representatives without explanations days after it was approved by the Senate. The Minister said prevailing economic variables in the global economic landscape and not the expected approval from the House of Representatives will determine if the fiscal authorities will go ahead with the borrowing plan. Market indication is not in favour of external borrowing at this time. So even if we get the approval from the National Assembly to go on, we may defer it and then watch the market and only go out when the market is right,“ the minister said. Ahmed said government is focusing on other areas to raise revenues to finance its expenditures without necessarily going into external borrowing at this time, adding that government is intensifying efforts to diversify the nation’s economy. She explained that the plan was to go ahead with the borrowings from multilateral and bilateral lenders to fund infrastructure with multiplier effect on job creation and higher value for the economy, noting that expenditures that are not critical must be deferred to a later date. She said government was contemplating suspension of the plan for now because market indices do not support external borrowings at the moment. Noting that the House of Representatives was yet to commence work on the proposal, the Finance minister however said, “We are not going out immediately because the market indication is not in favour of external borrowing at this time. Even if we get approvals we will defer it and watch the market and go out only when the timing is right.” Meanwhile, the Senate has declared that the total debt profile of Nigeria is now N33trillion after the approval of $22.7billion foreign loans requested by President Muhamnadu Buhari penultimate week. This is just as the director-general of the Debt Management Office (DMO), Mrs Patience Oniha, has expressed fears that the economic effects of the Coronavirus pandemic may incapacitate the country from servicing the debts appropriately. Submissions to these effect were made in Abuja at a one-day public lecture organised by the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS) with the theme, “Public Debt in Nigeria: Trend, Sustainability and Management”. The deputy chairman of Senate committee on Local and Foreign Debts, Senator Muhammad Bima Enagi (APC Niger South), in his remarks at the occasion said borrowing had always served as veritable financial platforms for many countries of the world in running their economies. He noted however that judiciously utilizing such loans for intended projects and servicing the debts appropriately had also been problems for some of the countries, particularly the developing ones like Nigeria. According to him, realities on ground in the country in terms of required infrastructures and debt accumulations between 2006 and now are not in any way connected. He explained that this is more so that many Nigerians are worried whenever they hear that their government is seeking for one loan or the other. From a low ratio of debt to gross domestic product (GDP) of about 3.4 percent at independence, Nigeria‘s total public debt as at September 30, 2019, according to the Debt Management Office (DMO), stands at about N26.2 trillion (or $85.4billion). Enagi continued: „Of this amount total domestic debt is about N18 trillion (or $58.4 Billion) which is 68.45% of the total public debts. With the recent approval of the 2016-2018 External Borrowing Plan, the total debt stock would be about N33 trillion and 21 Debt/GDP ratio. “The big question in the minds of average Nigerian aware of this fact is what did we do with the money? In other words, where did the money go? “What do we have to show as a people for these huge debts accumulated over the last four decades or so”. He added that in stopping the ugly trend, the Senate and, by extension, the National Assembly is more than determined to monitor the executive on prompt utilisation of new loans being sought for, in saving the country from going back to the pre-2005 and 2006 debt burden era. He said, „Consequences of these borrowings is that the sheer magnitude of the Nations Annual Debt Servicing put at about N2.47 trillion for 2020 makes the provision of basic but essential amenities and infrastructure in the country almost impossible without further borrowings. “Clearly, Nigeria needs to get its public finance in order to avoid the potential fiscal and financial crisis ahead of the nation. The current debt situation in Nigeria needs to be properly managed and every borrowed Naira or Dollar, carefully deployed, especially in the face of the continued dependence of the nation‘s economy on exported crude oil, with its usual price volatility. “Borrowings must be project tied and not just to support budget deficit. Furthermore, the projects must be such to grow the economy and bequeath laudable infrastructure and not debt for future generations. “The government must improve on its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) its Foreign Exchange Earnings and reduce importation of unnecessary goods. To this end, the 9th National Assembly will ensure very effective oversight“. But the DMO boss in her remarks said there was no cause for alarm as regards the total budget profile of the country put at $85.390billionn or N26trillion as at September 2019. According to her, though the country’s total debt stock as at 2006 when she exited the Paris and London Club of Creditors was $17.349million, yearly deficit budgeting and poor revenue generation forced the country into taking loans which accumulated to N26trillion as at September last year. She said, „Concerns have been expressed about the growth in Nigeria‘s debt stock since the exit from the Paris and London Club of Creditors. It is true that the Public Debt Stock has grown from US$17,349.69 million in 2006 to USD85,390.82 million as at September 30, 2019. “However, it must be recognised that the current Debt Stock is the result of cumulative borrowings by successive Governments to finance budget deficits and various Infrastructure Projects. She explained further that in order to ensure that the public debt is sustainable; the Debt to GDP Ratio was set at 25%, lower than the 56% advised by the WB and IMF. The Total Public Debt to GDP, according to her, has remained within the 25 per cent limit and stood at 18.47% in September 2019. “This is however, only one measure of debt sustainability, the other equally important measure is the Debt Service to Revenue Ratio and this is where Nigeria needs significant improvement. Actual Debt Service to Revenue Ratio has been high at over 50% since the year 2015 although it dropped to 51% in 2018 from 57% in 2017. „The relatively high Debt Service to Revenue Ratio is the result of lower Revenues and higher Debt Service figures. While Nigeria‘s debt is sustainable, recent developments in the global environment induced by COVID 19, already suggest a less than favourable economic outlook with implications for Nigeria”. Earlier in his opening remarks, the Director General of NILDS, Professor Abubakar Sulaiman, said the objective of the public lecture was to educate and build the capacity of participants , especially members and relevant committees of the National Assembly.  PMB Confers With Gbajabiamila Also, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met with the speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, over the proposed $22.7billion loan as it affects the South East. Recall that the Senate had approved the loan while the House of Representatives suspended deliberations on the loan request. The South-east caucus in the Senate complained about the exclusion of the region in terms of infrastructural projects for which the federal government was borrowing the $22.7 billion. The Senators took the protest to the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives.  FG Rules Out Travel Ban, Names More High-risk Countries Meanwhile, the federal government yesterday said that three new countries have been added to existing five high-risk countries with wide spread community transmission of coronavirus. According to the minister of State for Health, Dr Olurunimbe Mamora, the three countries are France, Spain and Germany, while five countries in the prior list include China, Japan, Iran, Italy and Republic of Korea. Mamora who stated this at a press conference on coronavirus yesterday in Abuja said travelers from these eight countries will undergo secondary screening at the point of entry while urging them to isolate for 14 days on entry. He said, “Following the declaration of a pandemic and increasing spread in countries, we carried out a review of our case definition. “We have added three new countries to the existing list of five high-risk countries with widespread community transmission. These are France, Germany and Spain. Therefore, eight countries are in our priority list China, Japan, Iran, Italy, Republic of Korea, France and Germany.“ On travel restriction, he said, „Our position right now is to do a supervised self-isolation. We don’t consider it necessary at this point in time to impose compulsory isolation for arriving passengers when they have not shown any suspicion of coronavirus. “Each country will be at liberty to determine the kind of restrictions to put in place based on their experience and the realities on ground. We are monitoring situations; it is dynamic, we have not said that we will not do it. We will do it if it becomes necessary. That is an assurance.“ The Minister confirmed that between March 7 and 15, 48 people who met the case definition have been screened for COVID-19 in eight states of Edo, Lagos, Ogun, FCT, Yobe, Rivers, Kano and Enugu. He said, „47 tested negative and have been cleared. One was positive, which was the contact of the index case, and one result is pending. There is no death so far. The index case is clinically stable and has improved greatly. We look forward to progress early this week, to guide the medical team in discharging him. “In Enugu, a woman in her 70s returned from the UK and had symptoms of fever and mild respiratory illness. Her sample was collected for laboratory diagnosis and tested negative for COVID-19. Therefore, as at the 15th of March 2020, Nigeria has recorded two confirmed cases of COVID19. One case is now negative and has been discharged from the hospital.“ He commended the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for being responsible to their duty, particularly in coordinating national response activities while adding that NCDC has developed guidance for mass gatherings. “We have advised against any closures or cancellations for large events. However, organisers of such event must ensure that appropriate measures are in place such as temperature scanners, hand-washing facilities, amongst other,“ he explained.  10 Quoted Companies Lose N2.4trn To Virus Meanwhile, investors‘ investments in the 10 most capitalised stocks on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) have recorded a decline of N2.421 trillion due to global oil price crash and increasing spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in six weeks. The 10 most capitalised companies on NSE as at February 3, 2020 are Dangote Cement, MTN Nigeria, BUA Cement, Airtel Africa, Nestlé Nigeria, Guaranty Trust Bank, Nigerian Breweries, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Zenith Bank and SEPLAT Petroleum Development Company (SEPLAT). They have a total market capitalisation of N11.705 trillion, representing 78.78 per cent of total market capitalisation. As at March 13, 2020 the total capitalisation of the 10 companies depreciated by N2.421 trillion to close at N9.284 trillion. Looking at each stocks, Nestle Nigeria declined by N654 billion , MTN Nigeria‘s share price declined by N537 billion,  Dangote Cement being the most capitalised company on NSE lost N459 billion during the period, while BUA Cement shed N58 billion. Airtel Africa lost N48 billion while Guaranty Trust Bank shed N323.746 billion; investors in Nigerian Breweries, Stanbic IBTC Holdings, Zenith Bank and SEPLAT lost investments worth N215.914 billion, N94.015 billion, N281.007 billion and N35.601 billion respectively in those companies. Also, during the period, equities market declined by 21.18 per cent as the All-Share Index dropped from 28,843.53 on January 31, 2020 to 22,733.35 on March 13, 2020. Similarly, the market capitalisation declined by N3.01 trillion to N11.847 trillion on March 13, 2020 and from N14.857 trillion to commence trading on February 3, 2020. This is as a result of the persistent free-fall in equity prices owing to a bouquet of factors. The ravaging coronavirus, a global pandemic, has further propelled the panic selloffs in the local and international markets. Coronavirus disease which started in Wuhan, China has spread to more than 118 countries resulting in over 134,911 cases and 4,613 deaths, driving record sell-offs in global and domestic markets. In Nigeria, there were two cases of COVID-19 and as at March 13, 2020, the reported cases are no While the domestic incidence of COVID-19 has been moderate, the domestic equities market is reeling from a global contagion that has wiped off initial 10.7 per cent gains achieved in the month of January and caused a slump of 21.18 per cent loss from February 3rd to March 13, 2020 and 15.36 year-to-date loss as at March 13, 2020. Capital market analysts noted that this is the worst start to a year since 2016, even as the reaction of investors reflects concerns about Nigeria’s vulnerability to external shocks, mainly oil, saying that the slowdown in global oil demand, in addition to the decision of OPEC+ to abandon output cuts, has caused a 50.2 per cent year-to-date drop in oil prices to $32.9/bbl as at March 12, 2020, the lowest in over four years. The chief operating officer of InvestData Consulting Limited, Ambrose Omordion, said that the impact of the virus seems heavy, killing more stock markets and economy than people across the globe, thus sending panic waves around the world, more devastating than the financial meltdown of 2008. The chairman of Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Oyinyechukwu Ezeagu, assured the investing public that the market would soon bounce back. Although ASHON acknowledged the high level of down swing on the market in the last couple of days, he said that fundamentals of the quoted companies remain strong. He explained that Nigeria’s stock market remained part of the global exchanges and as such any development in the global market would impact on its operations. He stated: “The effect of the coronavirus is gradually affecting trading all over the world and whatever happens elsewhere reflects in our market. “The centre of it all is China and being a major world power both in productive and consumption capacities, any ill wind affecting China would naturally cause a big sneezing to the rest of world. Investors should not panic. The share prices will bounce back. The companies’ fundamentals remain strong. Many investors are taking advantage of the bearish run to beef up their portfolios”. Cowry Asset Management Limited, in their report entitled, ‚COVID-19: Implications of the Global Pandemic on Nigeria’s Economy‘, said, “Amid hysteria in the financial markets, share prices plunged in almost all stock exchanges in the world in an unexpected manner. “Not insulated, share prices in the NSE crashed to rock bottom. Even stocks which obviously have good fundamentals like Zenith Bank and Guaranty Trust Bank lost significant value amid investor fears that the expected plunge in foreign earnings of the federal government would lead to devaluation of Naira against dollar and, in turn, affect the banks’ earnings going forward.” On investment strategy the report stated that it is needful for investors to firm up strategies in order to guard against possible investment loss, should CBN devalue on account of worsening external sector conditions, saying that this has become imperative in the Nigerian financial markets in light of the several headwinds facing the economy. “We recommend that investors take long positions in stocks which have depreciated to rock-bottom values. Specifically, investors should bargain hunt cash cows and high dividend-yielding stocks as the plunge in prices has accentuated their potential yields,” it stated. Analysts at Afrinvest Limited said, “We see opportunities in the local bourse for medium to long-term investors. With a loss of 15.4 per cent YTD, market valuation is currently weak. “Given the effectiveness of social distancing measures to fighting the spread of COVID-19 and its wide adoption in countries most vulnerable to the virus, we could see a resumption of economic activities in second half of 2020 which would support crude oil prices and market performance.” They advised a gradual entry approach buying in tranches into the Nigerian equities market given the uncertainties both on the global and domestic fronts.  CBN Announces N50bn Credit Facility For Affected Businesses As a response to the Coronavirus pandemic that is having adverse consequences on both the global and the Nigerian economies, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has announced the establishment of N50 billion targeted credit facility for households and small and medium sized enterprises (SMES) operating in Nigeria that have been particularly hit by coronavirus. The targeted beneficiaries include but not limited to hoteliers, airline service providers, and health care merchants, among others. The facility will be disbursed through the Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System for Agric Lending (NIRSAL) Microfinance Bank. The apex bank also announced that it has reduced interest rates on all applicable CBN intervention facilities from 9 to 5 per cent per annum for a one-year period effective from March 1, 2020. CBN has a N3 trillion special intervention fund for its different programmes in various sectors of the economy, including Anchor Borrowers‘ Programme, ASMES. CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, who announced the new measures yesterday at a media briefing in Abuja stated that the aim was to cushion the adverse economic impact of the pandemic. The new measure does not directly mean an alteration to the CBN‘s Monetary Policy Rate (MPR). The governor however indicated that the monetary policy committee of the CBN may adjust the prevailing interest rate in line with current realities. Emefiele said all CBN intervention facilities are granted a further moratorium of one year on all principal repayments, effective March 1, 2020. “This means that any intervention loan currently under moratorium is hereby granted additional period of one year”, he added. Accordingly, participating financial institutions have been directed to provide new amortisation schedules for all beneficiaries. To meet potential increase in demand for healthcare services and products, the CBN said it has also opened for its intervention facilities, loans to pharmaceutical companies intending to expand/open their drug manufacturing plants in Nigeria as well as to hospital and healthcare practitioners who intend to expand or build the health facilities to first class centres. That is in addition to growing the size of existing interventions to the agricultural and manufacturing sectors in Nigeria. Apart from that, the CBN said it was granting all deposit money banks leave to consider temporary and time-limited restructuring of the tenor and loan terms for businesses and households most affected by the outbreak of Covid-19, particularly Oil & Gas, agriculture, and manufacturing. “The CBN would work closely with DMBs to ensure that the use of this forbearance is targeted, transparent and temporary, whilst maintaining individual DMB‘s financial strength and overall financial stability of the system,” Emefiele said. In view of the success of its Loan-to-Deposit (LDR) Policy in growing credit to the economy and reducing interest rates, the CBN said it will further support industry funding levels to maintain DMBs capacity to direct credit to individuals, households and businesses.