A group, Media Rights Agenda (MRA) has condemned attacks on journalists and media representatives in Nigeria and called on the federal government to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of journalists and the media. MRA’s Programme Director, Mr Ayode Longe, made the call in a statement issued in Lagos, yesterday. Longe said Media Rights Agenda condemns the rising number of attacks by law enforcement and security agencies on journalists covering the Coronavirus pandemic and other issues and called on the Federal Government to ensure respect for the fundamental rights of journalists and the media. Mr Longe urged the government to ensure that security operatives are provide them with the necessary training about their human rights obligations to citizens. He said this has to conform with internationally recognized acceptable modes of engagement by law enforcement agents with citizens and civilian populations. Longe stated that on Saturday, March 28, an operative of the Department of State Security (DSS) assaulted Angela Nkwo-Akpolu, the Imo State correspondent of LEADERSHIP Newspaper while she was taking pictures of Fancy hotel in Owerri where guests were forcibly quarantined by security agents allegedly because the hotel failed to comply with government’s directives on checking the spread of COVID-19. SThe DSS operative is reported to have manhandled Ms Nkwo-Akpolu, forcibly seized a pair of prescription eye-glasses belonging to her as well as her ipad and deleted several pictures she had taken. The security agent stopped short of beating her up and smashing her ipad on the ground owing to the intervention of other journalists present at the scene. In yet another incident, at about 4.00am on March 30, 2020, a group of soldiers manning a checkpoint at Mbiama, a border town between Rivers and Bayelsa States, attacked a circulation vehicle belonging to The Punch newspaper, which was on its way to distribute copies of the newspaper in states in the South-South zone, and damaged the car. According to the driver of the vehicle, Mr Sunkanmi Olusola, when he got to Mbiama, the soldiers stopped him and the driver of the circulation vehicle of The Nation newspaper and refused to allow them to continue their journey. His repeated appeals to the soldiers to allow them leave apparently angered one of them who brought out a knife and slashed one of the vehicle’s front tyres into shreds. Mr. Olusola said the soldier had initially tried unsuccessfully to smash the windscreen of the Passat Golf 3 car before deciding to use the knife to tear the tyre. Longe lamented that the incidents are doubly tragic because a free press and respect for the rule of law are necessary conditions in a democracy, saying “Unfortunately, these security agents have consistently demonstrated that they are either not aware of these fundamentals of democratic rule or that they have no regard for them. This cannot be allowed to continue unchecked.”