Nigeria recorded its first death from Coronavirus yesterday as the total number of confirmed cases in the country increased to 40. A former managing director of Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC), Engr Suleiman Akowe Achimugwu, died of coronavirus on Sunday, a few days after he arrived Nigeria from the United Kingdom, a statement by a family member, Abubakar Achimugu, noted. There is growing apprehension over an impending lockdown on the country as the federal government has also announced the closure of all land borders. The land borders which had been under partial closure will now be closed completely for human traffic for four weeks. This is in addition to the directive issued at the weekend by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) restricting all international flights to all Nigerian airports. Last night, four more cases of coronavirus was confirmed, three in Lagos and one in Abuja, in addition to the 36 cases earlier confirmed by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire. Confirming the rise of coronavirus cases to 36 yesterday afternoon, the minister noted that out of the 36 confirmed cases, 25 are in Lagos,  six in FCT,  two in Ogun, one in Edo, one in Ekiti and one in Oyo. Speaking at a ministerial press briefing on COVID-19, Ehanire said, „Sadly, we recorded our first death from COVID-19 in the country. This was a Nigerian who unfortunately, had underlying illnesses and died due to complications on the 22nd of March in Abuja. He had recently returned from the United Kingdom. „26 of the cases had travel history to affected countries in the last two weeks, six are contacts of confirmed cases and four have no recent travel history or known contact. „As of the 23rd of March 2020, 36 cases have been confirmed, 2 cases have been discharged and 1 death recorded from COVID-19 in Nigeria. Of the 33 active cases, 32 are clinically stable with mild symptoms. 1 patient is oxygen-dependent.“ On treatment, he said the patients are most times placed on vitamin-C to build their immune systems to fight the virus. He however stated that antiretroviral drugs used for HIV are considered if the case is very unstable. According to him, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is working closely with the state governments of all affected states to carry out contact tracing. The minister stated: „Through intensified contact tracing, we have been able to promptly detect cases. I strongly urge all health facilities to be on high alert and for state, local government, law enforcement authorities and community leaders to give full cooperation to investigators. „Following the declaration of a pandemic by WHO and increasing spread of COVID-19, the Federal Government through the Presidential Task Force on the Control of COVID-19, has employed diverse strategies to interrupt and halt the spread of disease. „To this end, a ban has been placed on all international flights effective from yesterday, 23rd March 2020 with the exception of emergency and essential flights. These were not easy decisions to make but have become necessary in view of the changing developments in the country as we witness more confirmed cases of COVID-19. More measures may be instituted by the federal and state government in the coming days as the situation demands.“ Ehanire urged individuals, businesses, professional bodies, media houses and all committed Nigerians to take ownership of the anti-COVID-19 campaign by developing and communicating prevention messages around the following critical thematic areas. Meanwhile, Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, has said it was shock that the state received the demise of Engr Suleiman Akowe Achimugwu, describing him as one of the best chemical experts of his generation, a patriot and a passionate believer in the Kogi dream. A statement by his chief press secretary, Onogwu Muhammed, quoted the governor as saying as a state, the hearts of Kogi people are with the family of the deceased and the people of Aloji in Ofu local government area of Kogi State at this trying moment of losing a pillar of hope and quintessential engineer. Bello said, „Our consolation is that the Government of Kogi State has the opportunity to continue to serve the people in order to immortalize the ideology of service and selfless leadership that the late Engineer represented. „We shall also ensure his name is immortalized to drive home the sterling rewards of service and patriotism that the late Achimugwu stood for. May God grant the family, the Aloji community and the entire State the fortitude to bear the irredeemable loss“. The late Achimugwu who joined the NNPC in 1978 as Chemical Engineer II and later in 1999 after traversing the oil sector; was deployed to NNPC Corporate Headquarters as General Manager, Turn Around Maintenance and Projects in the Refining and Petrochemicals Directorate. Based on his wealth of experience in the oil sector, in November 2003, he was appointed managing director of Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC) and in 2007, he was appointed the Group General Manager of Renewable Energy Division of the NNPC.  FG Closes All Borders, Cancels FEC, Council Of State Meetings Following the increasing cases of coronavirus in the country, the federal government yesterday suspended the weekly federal executive council meeting and the council of state meeting scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who announced the development said all land borders that have been hitherto under partial closure shall now be closed for human traffic for four weeks . He commended Nigerians for stepping out to report and make enquires through the dedicated hotlines, saying records show that on Sunday over 4,500 calls were received, which shows the high level of awareness amongst Nigerians. The SGF who is also the chairman of the presidential task force on Covid -19 pandemic further explained that the strategy of government was to focus on testing, detection and containment through contact tracking in order to minimize hugely the possibility of community spread. He urged anyone experiencing the symptoms of the virus or who has been in contact with anyone who had been suspected or tested positive to report at the nearest medical facility or the designated center. According to him, the PTF in its continuous bid to monitor global and domestic developments has isolated Lagos and Abuja for particular attention in view of their population, mobility and number of cases already reported. Mustapha continued: “Suspension of the weekly FEC meetings until further notice; iPostponement of the meeting of the Council of State scheduled for Thursday 26th March, 2020. “All land borders that have been hitherto under partial closure shall now be closed for human traffic for four weeks effective, 23rd March, 2020. “In order to protect Federal Civil and Public Servants, a circular to be issued by the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF) shall direct on actions to be taken immediately. “If and when the need arises, any national assets required for use in the response to COVID-19 shall be mobilized and deployed. Federal Government is, at the highest level, engaging with State Governors in order to ensure a collaborative and effective response to COVID-19 Pandemic. “All Abuja and Lagos residents are strongly advised to stay at home, avoid mass congregation of any kind as well as non- essential outings, until further advice is given. “Finally, the PTF assures all Nigerians of the concerns of Mr. President and his determination to mobilize all resources to backup this national response. “However, this commitment should be reciprocated by all citizens by respecting the advisory and obeying measures put in place to curtail the spread of COVID-19.  The Presidential Task Force (PTF) shall be updating Nigerians from time to time when the need arise,” he stated.  Aisha Buhari Calls For Total Lockdown Of Nigeria Also, wife of the president, Hajiya Aisha Buhari, has called for a total lockdown of the country to stem the tide of coronavirus outbreak. Mrs Buhari who suggetsed this in a tweet yesterday also commended the state governors for closing down schools. She tweeted: “It is commendable that state governors have closed down schools. However, this could be counterproductive if parents are still going to work. We should not isolate students and expose their parents. Let us remember that they will meet at home”. FG Threatens To Deal With Clerics, Politicians Over Large Gatherings Meanwhile, as part of efforts to combat the Covid19 pandemic which is ravaging the world, the federal government has warned clerics and politicians who are still congregating large gatherings to desist from such act, saying tougher decisions would be taken to contain the disease. It also assured Nigerians that whatever decision is taken to combat the spread of the virus it will be in the best their interest. The Global Health Policy (GHP) Covid-19 Coronavirus tracker as updated on March 23, 2020 shows that a total of 335,935 cases of Coronavirus have been recorded globally, 14,633 deaths recorded with 192 countries recorded across the globe. Nigeria recorded its first death from Covid19 yesterday while 35 confirmed cases had been confirmed with 32 active cases. Also, two people who tested negative have been discharged. Addressing a press conference yesterday in Abuja, the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, stressed the need for all hands to be on deck to tackle the virus, even as he appealled to Nigerians to continue to support the efforts of government at all levels to defeat coronavirus. He said, “We want to appeal to Nigerians to continue to support the efforts of the government at all levels to defeat this coronavirus. We are hoping for the best in our efforts to contain the disease, but we are prepared for the worst. “The truth is that things may yet get worse than it is now, hence the need for all hands to be on deck. Tougher decisions may yet be on the way to contain this disease. But whatever decision is taken will be in the best interest of Nigerians.” The minister also thanked Nigerians for complying with all the preventive measures being put in place by the government, including social distancing and deliberately increasing the physical space between people to avoid spreading the illness. Mohammed said this entails staying at least six feet away from other people, cancellation of events likely to attract large number of people, quarantine, self-isolation, suspension of services, among others. The minister also said the government, at the highest level, was already leading by example as Mr President has cut down the number of those who pay him courtesy visit. “Mr. President is not shaking hands. One of the President‘s daughters is in self-isolation”, he said, adding that the meeting of the heads of state of the Chad Basin Commission, scheduled for next week, has also been cancelled. Mohammed also stated that visitors to the State House get their hands sanitized and their temperature taken at several points before reaching the executive council chambers. He continued: “The federal government is aware that some political and religious leaders have either denied the existence of coronavirus or have defied the directives to avoid a large gathering. Leaders of all hues must show great responsibility at this time. They must avoid putting the lives of not just their followers but also those of the general public in danger. “Nigerians too must take responsibility, do what they are requested to do to stay safe and stop blaming others. For those who would continue to willfully flout the directives aimed at checking the spread of this disease, the long arm of the law will soon catch them”. He also called for the cooperation of all Nigerians in the area of ‚contact tracing‘. The minister said health services use ‚contact tracing‘ to find people who may have been exposed to the infectious disease. “Those who have come into close contact with others who have coronavirus are at higher risk of infection, and of potentially infecting others. For those who will not cooperate by submitting to the authorities, as required, the government will use all lawful means at its disposal to trace and bring them in. Having now shut our gateway airports, the biggest assignment for us is ‚contact tracing‘ to find all those who may have come into contact with those who have the disease,” he said. He said nothing could be farther from the truth than the farce out there that the disease cannot affect Africans for one reason or another, or that the young are immune to it. “In New York, for example, 54 per cent of those infected are between the ages of 18 and 49. As the World Health Organization (WHO) has warned, young people are not immune to coronavirus and must avoid socialising and communicating it to older, more vulnerable people”, he stated. On the upsurge of fake news, he said an audio recording that is being circulated on the social media, especially on WhatsApp, had made some bogus claims, including that Nigeria is seeking to buy used protective gear from China, waiting for money from the WHO before doing anything, and that Nigeria has no funds to tackle the disease because the foreign reserves have been exhausted and funds were stolen, as well as understating the figures of those infected, etc. “This is a most irresponsible, inaccurate”, he said, adding that it is an orchestrated job by a charlatan and should be disregarded by all Nigerians. “It is obvious that this hatchet job is aimed at distracting the hard-working health officials and misinforming Nigerians in order to create panic”, he noted.. He said the federal government will not be distracted in its efforts to fight the disease and keep Nigerians safe.  … Orders Federal Civil Servants To Work From Home Also, as the country intensifies efforts to curb the outbreak of coronavirus in the country, the federal government yesterday ordered civil servants in the Federal Civil Service from grade level 12 and below to start working from home effective from today. The Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Folashade Yemi-Esan, issued the directive in a memo titled, “Compulsory Stay At Home Of Non-Essential Public Servants On GL Grade 12 And Below As A Further Measure To Curtail The Spread Of Covid-19.” In the memo marked, “HCSF/109/S.l/1/10023rd March, 2020”, the federal government said it was concerned about the welfare and safety of Nigerians, hence the need to protect them from the virus. The memo noted: “As a further step to check the spread of COVID-19, all non-essential public servants on grade level 12 and below are to work from home with effect from Tuesday 24th March, 2020 until further notice. “All other categories of officers, who will be at work, are strongly advised to limit the number of visitors they receive to the barest minimum. This is to reduce physical contact as much as possible. “Furthermore, officers who have recently visited countries with incidence of COVID — 19 or, have had contact with persons who recently returned from these countries, are advised to self-isolate at home for 2 weeks. In case such officers exhibit any of the COVID 19 symptoms, they are advised to contact the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on 0800970000 — 10.” The federal government further urged Nigerians to observe strict adherence to personal hygiene, including frequent washing of hands with soap and running water.  CJN Suspends Court Sittings For 2 Weeks, APC, PDP Shut Head Offices Meanwhile, the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, yesterday ordered the closure of all courts in the country for two weeks. This is even as the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have ordered the closure of their national secretariats in Abuja Last week, the CJN who had in a circular said the courts in the country were expected to continue sitting despite the coronavirus pandemic urged Judges to take maximum precautions. However, in a fresh circular posted yesterday on the National Judicial Council (NJC website), the CJN directed all courts to close down with effect from today. The latest Circular reads: „Further to my earlier Circular Ref. No. NJC/CIR/HOC/II/629 dated 20th March, 2020, on the above subject matter.   In view of the reality of the COVID-19 in the country and in order to take further preventive steps, all Heads of Courts are, from tomorrow, the 24th day of March, 2020, directed to suspend Court sittings for an initial period of two weeks at the first instance, except in matters that are urgent, essential or time bound according to our extant laws. „Your Lordships are hereby directed to bring the content of this Circular to the notice of all Stakeholders in justice administration, please“. In the same vein, the APC has ordered the closure of its national secretariat in Abuja. The party said the move was in line with federal government’s directive that people should stay away from large congregations and social gatherings. The party however assured staff of the National secretariats that their salaries will be disbursed to them all even while they are at home. Briefing journalists in Abuja, the APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, ordered that all staff and working members should remain in their homes in order to look after their immediate families as the disease is in large spread across the country. He said, “This is just a preventive measures the party has taken by closing down the secretariats for about two weeks so we can manage the situation at hand but if it persists, we will have to extend the holidays because we need to remain alive to be able to serve the country as a whole and members of the party. “We as APC leaders must be seen to obey federal government’s rules. It is no longer a secret that we are facing a pandemic all over the world and Nigeria has its own share of the corona virus, though it is not as bad as other countries but clearly the numbers are increasing as it is said, prevention is better than cure. “We had a conversation among ourselves, we the NWC, and desired to come up with this decision to shut down because I am not sure how many of you have private cars. Some of you use public transport to come to work which at this moment could be dangerous and I don’t think we will want to take any risk so we have decided to close the office”. In the same vein, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP has directed a partial shutdown and skeletal activities at the party‘s national secretariat, popularly called Wadata House, from tomorrow in line with its „measures to safeguard the nation from the spread of COVID-19.“ The NWC also directed all PDP secretariats and offices across the country to comply with the directive accordingly. Also, sequel to the decision of the PDP to shutdown activities at its secretariats and offices across the country, the party further resolved to suspend all activities bordering on congresses, rallies and other large gathering of members of the party across the federation, with effect from today.  Niger Imposes Curfew, Rivers, Kano Close Night Clubs, Parks Meanwhile, Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, yesterday announced a 12-hour daily curfew in the state. “As from Wednesday, March 25th, 2020, the state shall observe daily curfew from 8:00am to 8:00pm till further notice“, the governor said in a state broadcast yesterday in Minna. Bello continued: „The scourge of coronavirus (COVID-19) is real and with the confirmed cases in Abuja just a stone throw away from us, calls for more proactive measures and preparedness for any eventualities. “I wish to reassure the general public that there has not been any suspected or confirmed case of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the State. But as proactive government, the State has resolved to create mass awareness and respond promptly to any case of the outbreak“. Consequently, he said the government has strengthened the surveillance system to detect any case of coronavirus disease (COVID-19), including investigation and monitoring of any outbreak. Also, Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, yesterday ordered the immediate closure of all event centers in the state to check the spread of coronavirus. The governor also directed that no crowd should exceed 20 people per time. Ganduje who made the disclosure in a special state live broadcast to the people of the state explained that COVID-19 was now a global pandemic which has kill many across the world. He maintained that in an effort to curtail the spread of the virus, his administration has constituted a high level taskforce headed by the deputy governor, Dr Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna. He said, „Prevention, they say, is better than cure. This is why our administration is taking a preventive measure to close down all private and public Schools in Kano State“. He added that religious and traditional institutions have also been charged to collaborate with the state government in enlightening the public to desist from any gathering which is inimical to the spread of the virus. Ganduje however informed members of the public to strictly adhere to government directives meant to consolidate and make sure that the state remained free of the virus. Also, Rivers State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, yesterday announced that from today all public parks, night clubs and cinemas will remain closed till further notice. Wike, who announced this in a state-wide broadcast in Port Harcourt, directed religious groups to temporarily stop all forms of open worship, saying the action was in furtherance of the commitment of the state government to protect residents of the state from coronavirus. The governor said, „With effect from the same date (Tuesday, March 24, 2020), all public parks, night clubs and cinemas in the state are to remain closed till further notice. „Similarly, after due consultations with religious leaders, it was agreed that all religious organisations are to temporarily stop all forms of open worship. Public burial and wedding ceremonies are also banned within this period. „In view of the fact that the disease spreads fast through body contact, social distance has become imperative if we are to contain the spread. “May I, therefore call on all religious leaders, traditional rulers and opinion leaders in the state to assist government to implement these decisions  by ensuring that persons under their care do not fall foul of this directive.“ In the same vein, Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi yesterday inaugurated a task force saddled with the responsibility of enforcing compliance to the prohibition of public gatherings of more than 20 persons in the state. The government said the move was to forestall the spread of coronavirus in the state Members of the committees include: 16 council chairmen, Nigeria Army, Department of State Services, Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Federal Road Safety Corps, market men and women, Ekiti State environmental inspectors and other ethnic nationalities. Represented by the commissioner for Environment, Mr. Gbenga Agbeyo, the governor while inaugurating the committee said the government was not particularly happy about the way the order banning congregation of more than 20 people was being flouted.  Kogi Inaugurates Anti-COVID-19 Task Force, Asks Workers To Stay At Home Meanwhile, the Kogi State government yesterday constituted an anti-COVID-19 task force called Squadron to help tackle coronavirus and lassa fever to ensure the prevention and containment of the two pandemics in the state and guarantee the wellness of Kogi people. The 29-man committee led by the deputy governor of the state, Chief Edward Onoja has the following as members: secretary to the Kogi State government, Chief of Staff to the Governor, some commissioners and other relevant stakeholders both within and outside the government. The committee at its maiden meeting me arrived at a decision to keep civil servants at home from yesterday as a preventive measure to curb the spread of the deadly virus. It also advised Kogites to stay at home in order to reduce the risk of contracting the virus, just as it said personal hygiene should also be taken serious, while people suspected to be showing symptoms of Covid 19 should be reported to the Committee for immediate help. In a statement he issued after the committee’s meeting yesterday, the state commissioner for Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo, who is also a member, noted that the committee went into action immediately after inauguration to draw a roadmap for the battle against the deadly virus. He said, “The Committee agreed that the pandemic is more serious than earlier thought; hence the need to deal with it with all the seriousness and commitment it deserves. The Committee established the fact that there is no confirmed case of Coronavirus yet in the State. “The Committee resolved to ban all forms of social or religious gatherings.  There will be no more gatherings in churches, Mosques, Clubs , beer joints, weddings or burials. The ban is with immediate effect. It was agreed that the FAREC Clinic in Lokoja will serve as Containment/Isolation Center for the State. “The Committee resolved to trace and track people who just returned to the State from affected countries with a view to detecting their status. Laboratories in the State are to be upgraded to be able to test for Coronavirus. “Henceforth, vehicles traversing the State will not be allowed to stop over in the state, except it is established that some of their passengers will be alighting within the State. They will also be allowed to buy fuel in the State.  Efforts will be geared towards sensitizing the people to stay at home as much as possible. Market places with large crowds will also be shut down. “Henceforth, hotels, restaurants and other offices will be made to provide water, soap and sanitizers for their customers to wash their hands. The Committee also mooted the idea of banning Okada Transport in order to reduce contact and also stop people from leaving their homes indiscriminately. No final decision has been taken on that. “Senior Special Assistants to the Governor on Security as well as the Directors of Local Government Areas are to coordinate grassroots sensitization as efforts are on at deploying Town Criers to carry the message of the Committee to the grassroots. The Committee resolved to enlist security agencies to enforce the directives of Government which are aimed at ensuring the pandemic is contained properly. “Fake reports on the spread of the virus will be decisively dealt with in order to save the people from unnecessary panic”.  Kaduna Gov Orders Workers To Stay At Home Also, Kaduna State government has directed all civil servants from Level 12 and below to remain at home for the next 30 days with effect from today. The state governor, Nasir El-Rufai, who made this known in a state broadcast yesterday, said that the directive became necessary to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The governor however said that workers providing essential services in the health, security and emergency service sectors are exempted from this directive. el-Rufai who regretted that the government’s directive against large gatherings was being flouted however expressed gratitude to those religious leaders who complied with the directive. He further said that government “received reports of congregations in some churches and mosques, as well as large crowds in weddings and other social activities. “Over the weekend, we also sadly observed shocking levels of complacency as some people ignored their responsibility to uphold preventive measures”, he added. He noted that the state government has now “decided to move from advice to actual enforcement of its restrictions on large gatherings, especially in churches and mosques. “Security agencies have been directed to ensure compliance across the state. These agencies will also enforce compliance with the decision to close all schools, whether public or private, religious or secular, Islamiya or run by Christian missions”, he stated.  Mohammed Atiku’s Wife, Son Test Negative, Bauchi Gov In Self-isolation  Meanwhile, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar’s daughter-in-law and his grandchildren, have tested negative to coronavirus. They are, however, on self-isolation at their home located at Taslee Palm City Estate, Uruguay Street, Maitama, Abuja. Atiku’s son, Mohammed, who is currently being quarantined at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada, had tested positive for the virus on Sunday. Mohammed is married to Badriyya, the daughter of a former governor of Bauchi State, Ahmed Muazu, who is also a former national chairman of the PDP. “Also, it is not true that the estate reported the man. We had no hand in it. The CDC came to convey him to the isolation centre,” Aliyu said. Also, the media office of the PDP presidential candidate yesterday said that Atiku’s son who tested positive of coronavirus did not show symptoms of infection and voluntarily placed a call to NCDC on arrival to Abuja. Apparently reacting to diverse false claims on social media concerning the presidential candidate’s son laboratory result on coronavirus in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja signed by Paul Ibe, the media adviser to Atiku Abubakar, said the patient wore a face mask as a precautionary measure since his arrival to Nigeria. Ibe noted that the former VP’s son did not travel with his family or any other person but travelled alone by Emirates Airlines. The statement also urged members of the public to disregard the perfidious information that the case accessed open location. It also said that the presidential candidate son was neither at Play Lounge nor any other night club in Abuja as being mischievously published on social media. The statement reads in part: “The patient did not show symptoms of infection and voluntarily placed a call to NCDC on arrival in Abuja late on the 18th to inform them he had returned from COVID-19 prone country and desired to be tested. “For the purpose of putting the records straight and dispelling false narratives about the itinerary of a son of H.E @atiku currently undergoing treatment for Corona Virus (COVID-19) infection, I wish to make the following clarifications: “The clinical case returned to the country on 17th March via Switzerland from some business engagements in France and Switzerland. “He attended a private meeting of six persons the same day in Lagos, stayed in his private house for the night and took an Aero 5.20 pm flight to Abuja on the 18 March. “The patient did not show symptoms of infection and voluntarily placed a call to NCDC on arrival in Abuja late on the 18th to inform them he had returned from COVID-19 prone country and desired to be tested.” Meanwhile, Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, is in self- isolation after having contact with Atiku Abubaka’s son who has been tested positive of coronavirus. The governor’s Chief of Staff, Ladan Salihu, confirmed this on his twitter handle. Ladan Salihu said the governor was on the same flight with Atiku’s son from Lagos to Abuja. “They shook hands and exchanged pleasantries. “The governor and the rest of us have taken tests”, Ladan tweeted. Alaso, a press statement made available to newsmen by his spokesperson, Muktari Gidado, confirmed the development. The decision followed the report from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control that the son of the former vice president was tested positive to the coronavirus upon his returned from an international trip through Lagos. Governor Mohammed who recently returned from an official trip to Lagos met with Mohammed Atiku Abubakar in the Aero Contractor aircraft where they shook hands and exchanged pleasantries. The press statement indicated that the governor did not exhibit any symptom of the disease, but based on the recommendation of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, he will remain in isolation in order to avoid the risk of spreading the disease. Gidado who noted that the blood sample of the governor has been taken for clinical test said for the period of the test, the governor and his entourage will remain in isolation pending the outcome of the clinical results.  C’River Closes All Entry Points, Suspends LG Polls Meanwhile, Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade has ordered the closure of all entry points to state, just as he suspended the local government elections billed to hold next Saturday. “All the entry points into Cross River State (land, air and water) are hereby locked down. Access will be based on passing a thorough screening regime.The Local Government Council elections scheduled to hold on Saturday, March 28, 2020, is suspended indefinitely”, a statement signed by special adviser on media and publicity to the governor, Mr Christian Ita, last night noted.