A socio-political group, the Buhari Osinbajo Solidarity Front (BOSF) has faulted former Vice President Atiku Abubakar for advising the federal government to consider paying N10,000 to Nigerians to cushion the effect of Covid-19 measures on them. The group who accused the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of playing politics with the unfortunate development wondered over his sudden interest in the plight of Nigerians when he and his party openly opposed and condemned the similar initiative tagged TraderMoni introduced by Buhari-Osinbajo-led federal government. It urged Atiku and PDP to apologize to Nigerians for playing bad politics with issues that affect the welfare of the common man. According to the National Coordinator of the group, Mr. Liberty Olawale Badmus , the recent call by Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, advocating that the Federal Government of Nigeria give the sum of Ten (10) Thousand Naira each to citizens could be described as an admission of the usefulness, brilliance and success of the Buhari-Osinbajo led administration’s Social Investment Programmes (SIPs) as shown in the Tradermoni. He commended the Buhari-Osinbajo administration for this admission and while expressing surprise at the suggestion of the opposition’s failed presidential candidate. Badmus welcomed Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and the People Democratic People (PDP) to the realization of the efficacy of the N10,000 collateral free TraderMoni facility and other Social Investment Programmes. He said, “PDP should apologize to Buhari-Osinbajo for condemning TraderMoni – Buhari Osinbajo Solidarity Front. For many who remember how the opposition People’s Democratic Party and is Presidential Candidate pooh-poohed the TraderMoni initiative, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar’s latest fancy is either a joke, mischief or outright high hypocrisy! “What has become clear is that the Buhari-Osinbajo administration has already established an effective structure to deliver direct payments to Nigerians as we have seen through the seamless operations of the Social Investment Programmes of the administration in the last several years”, he added. Badmus, however, described Atiku and the PDP as pretenders for ridiculing the idea of the Social Investment Programmes, especially the N10,000 collateral and interest free TraderMoni. He noted that all that is required now is to scale up the programmes. For instance, N10,000 collateral free TraderMoni facility being implemented by the Bank of Industry is well organised with a State-of-the-Art Control Room and a structure that has biometric information, photographic information and all relevant information of more than two million traders who have already benefitted from TraderMoni, MarketMoni and FarmerMoni. 