In this article, ADENIYI ADUNOLA looks at the task before the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) ahead of the proposed National Broadband Policy 2020-2025 report and offers key areas of concentration. Recently, the National Broadband Policy Committee led by Ms. Funke Opeke, chief executive officer, MainOne Company submitted its report to the Hon. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Pantami in Abuja ahead of the first quarter deadline given to the committee. The Committee’s work was to develop a new National Broadband Policy 2020-2025 for the nation to chart a digital future where Nigeria would deploy necessary technologies that would place government services at the palms of citizens driving by superfast broadband networks provided by mobile operators. That broadband is now globally acclaimed as the major index of development in all aspects of human life is no an exaggeration. According to the ITU-UNESCO Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development, the nervous system of today’s civilization, and its access is top priority for our technologically society. There’s no gainsaying, therefore, the aspiration of many a nation today is to deploy available human and material resources to attain broadband success. It is on this premise that we can surmise strategic importance and profound impact inherent in the recent indices of Nigeria’s broadband giant strides. Nigeria attained 30.9 per cent broadband penetration as of November 2018. What this connotes is that, a total of 58,965,478 were connected to the internet through 3G and 4G networks out of 108,457,051 internet subscribers in the nation’s telecom networks. The figures rose in December to 60, 087,199, taking the penetration depth to 31.48 per cent. As of December 2019, Broadband penetration has since increased to 37.80 per cent. To put it into perspective, the penetration figures stood at 8.5 per cent in 2015 when the Nigerian telecom industry regulator, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari. However, the notable happy-ending story is also a story of diligent implementation of a comprehensive roadmap, popularly known as 8-Point Agenda, which the professor of telecommunications unveiled just few months into his new assignment. It’s not for nothing, therefore, broadband was deliberately made its flagship, and thus occupies its front burner. The 2013-2018 target of 30 per cent was achieved and surpassed by the NCC for the country, indicating how committed Danbatta-led leadership has worked assiduously towards deepening digital frontier in the country. From less than nine per cent broadband penetration when he came on board in 2015, the NCC has helped in pushing Broadband Penetration to 37.80 per cent as of December, 2019. The Commission was commended for this effort in achieving the target by all stakeholders including ATCON, ALTON and even the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy who commended the NCC for its excellent regulatory efforts at the recent ITU Study Group 3 on Standardisation Workshop hosted by the NCC, on behalf of the country, at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel. For the NCC to have been able to achieve the 30 per cent target and surpassed it, there is no doubt that the Commission is posited to do more through various initiatives such as Broadband Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) licencing, use of Television White Space (TVWS) technology for affordable broadband services in rural, underserved and unserved areas of the country. Through NCC’s consistent commitment to reduce the number of people without access to telecom services from 45 million to 35 million, the Commission will further reduce this number as InfraCos deploy fibre infrastructure across all the 774 LGAs across the county. The InfraCos will also help in building the metro fibre infrastructure that will help in taking the about 40 terabit of bandwidth capacity lying in the shores of Nigeria to the hinterlands across the country. This will help to deepen intra and inter-city fibre connectivity that will help businesses, public institutions and individuals to have digital access to various services across industry verticals. Another woks ahead for the NCC is its ongoing plan to facilitate the deployment of 5G networks in the country. Already, Proof of Concept (PoC) trial has been conducted by MTN through the platform created by the Commission to test speed, latency and capacity which 5G offers ahead of other generational technology platforms such as 2G, 3G and nascent 4G. The Commission is pushing for the approval from the government for the counterparts funding to be disbursed to InfraCos upon each of the InfraCo’s achievements of key milestones in their deployment within their respective areas of operations. Other prospects that will help the NCC drive the new target whenever it is determined and made known by the federal government would be the final document that would come out from the review of the Funke Opeke-led National Broadband Plan Committee 2020-2024. Other prospect for the Commission is that of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) unveiled by President Muhammadu Buhari in November, 2020 which is a blueprint to how the country plans to steer its digital space towarda deepening digital economy in the country. In all the eight pillars of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS), the NCC has a role to play and it is enthusing that the NCC is already working in the direction of digital economy. Also, the Executive Order being proposed by the Minister to address issues on recognition of telecoms as critical national security infrastructure (CNI), if given the needed push, will also help to ensure resilience of existing infrastructure to be able to serve the generality of Nigerians in terms of telecoms services provisioning. Discussion with the Nigerian Governors Forum also needs to be sustained by the Minister in collaboration with the NCC, so that they would come to terms with the fact that cost of right of way (RoW) should be pegged at N145, as contained in the National Economic Council’s (NEC) resolutions.