TARKAA DAVID, in this report examines the integration of Air-Ground components by the Nigerian Air Force, in the fight against all forms of insecurity in the country. The quest for effectiveness in the discharge of its constitutional mandate as security threats continue to rear its ugly head in the nation has led to the adoption of backdoor gunners and special fast rope forces by the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), for the effective performance of its counterinsurgency operations to combat all forms of insecurity in the country. The Nigerian Air Force last year conducted a series of counter-terrorism exercises across the country beginning with the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari axis bedeviled with bandits and kidnapping for ransom. These exercises perhaps paved the way for more training due to realisable gaps that needed to be filled to ensure operational efficiency and avoid collateral damage. Speaking during the Exercise NA ZO in Kaduna State, the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Olonisakin, stressed how critical training and exercises are to a fighting force like the NAF, towards ensuring greater success in combat operations. He said the NAF had blazed the trail by ensuring that its personnel were engaged in exercises that evolve lessons, tactics, and doctrine in the conduct of CT operations. Gen Olonisakin stated that, as a service vested with the enviable role of protecting the territorial integrity of Nigeria by air, the timing of the exercise was apt, affording the NAF the opportunity to assess the physical alertness and combat readiness of its personnel with a view to making necessary adjustments and changes. “Even more important is the fact that an event of this nature is being organized at a time the NAF and its sister services are engaged in counterinsurgency (COIN) operations in the Northeastern part of Nigeria as well as Anti-banditry in the North West and North Central,” he said. The CDS who lauded President Muhammadu Buhari, for his continued support to the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) in general and the NAF in particular, noted that Nigerians were undoubtedly appreciative of the President’s commitment to ensuring a secured Nigeria as well as the efforts of the AFN in the fight against terrorism and other societal ills. While commending the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, for conceiving the idea, adding that the underlying lessons of the event would go a long way in resolving the current security challenges in the country. The Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, speaking during the ‘Exercise Babban Naushi’ on Minna -Zungeru road commended the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, and all personnel of the NAF for executing a well-coordinated training exercise. Bello who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Ibrahim Matene observed that the current NAF leadership has demonstrated laudable resolve to ensure that its officers and airmen/airwomen have the required capacity for the effective performance of their duties. He added that the exercise was timely and well thought out as it would have a long-lasting effect towards enhancing the security of Niger State and its environs. “We commend the Chief of Air Staff for his visionary leadership that has led to a significant transformation in virtually all areas of the Service in the last 4 years”, he said. Speaking further, Governor Bello stated that, despite its best efforts, Niger State had also had its fair share of security challenges, especially in 4 Local Government Areas (LGAs). He, however, noted that in the last few months some joint operations, involving the NAF as well as sister services and other security agencies, had been conducted to dislodge armed bandits from the affected areas, with commendable successes recorded. He further requested the deployment of additional air assets to Niger State to give more potency to the joint operations against the bandits. Governor Bello said he was impressed by the effective execution of the exercise as well as the precision of the airstrikes by the NAF attack aircraft. “EXERCISE BABBAN NAUSHI could signal the end of armed banditry in Niger State. We have seen the impact of your air operations and we need more”, he said. He, therefore, pledged that Niger State Government, on its part, would continue to support the NAF, sister Services and other security agencies to enable them to perform their duties more effectively. In his remarks, the CAS recalled that since the assumption of office he has desired to bequeath a “highly professional and disciplined force through capacity building initiatives for effective, efficient and timely employment of airpower in response to Nigeria’s national security imperatives.” Abubakar noted that this desire necessitated having the right organizational structure, the right platforms, and equipment as well as the right institutional and human capacity. He observed that much had been done, in the last 4 years, to restructure the NAF for better service delivery; he listed such efforts to include, the establishment of two new staff branches at Headquarters NAF as well as two new field Commands, including the Special Operations Command, the host of EXERCISE BABBAN NAUSHI. Commenting on the right mix of platforms and equipment, the CAS reported that the NAF was extremely fortunate because, through the federal government’s immense support, the Service had been able to acquire 19 new platforms and reactivated 20 erstwhile unserviceable ones, with another 18 aircraft already ordered awaiting delivery. He reiterated that if not for such measures, it would not have been made possible for the service to deploy 10 aircraft for Exercise BABBAN HAUSHI. Air Marshal Abubakar noted, however, that it was in the area of having the right human capacity that his Administration had invested most significantly, with an unprecedented number of personnel trained in different categories of air and ground operations both locally and abroad. He observed that series of simulation/training exercises, like BABBAN NAUSHI, were being conducted to sharpen the skills of NAF SF personnel and flying units to enable them to be more effective and efficient in the conduct of their operations. He said the exercises afford opportunities to interrogate processes and procedures to identify gaps with a view of bridging them for enhanced performance in real combat scenarios. While reiterating the primacy of Air Power as a critical requirement for victory in modern warfare, the CAS remarked that such exercises also provide opportunities to test the efficacy of force protection measures in order to ensure that NAF Bases and air assets are properly secured to enable unhindered Air Power employment for optimal effects. He said the NAF would, therefore, continue to carry out such exercises because of the derivable benefits, while highlighting that the next one would be conducted in the Southwest of the Country. Air Marshal Abubakar restated the NAF’s unalloyed commitment towards ensuring the safety and security of Nigeria and Nigerians. Beyond military might, leaders must look inward and address the remote causes of these security challenges rather than throwing smoke. Nigerians are not stupid and they understand the problem which can only be solved if the government and all stakeholders genuinely want to end rather than taking advantage of the system that has failed the common man. To ensure efficient employment of its rotary platforms (helicopters) to gain utmost advantage over insurgents and armed bandits, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), on 11 March 2020, inaugurated another Helicopter Backdoor Gunners’ (HBDG) Course 6/2020 at the NAF Regiment Training Centre (RTC), Kaduna. The service had also inaugurated the Fast Rope Insertion/Extraction Systems (FRIES) Course 2/2020, which is one of the several training assistance programmes by the United States Government (USG) to tackle terrorism. The director of Public Relations and Information Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola in a statement said the FRIES Course being conducted by the USG-sponsored Firm, SkyBridge Tactical Training Team, is tailored towards capacity development of Regiment personnel to become Fast Rope Masters capable of inserting troops with the required skill to conduct resupply of combat requirements such as ammunition, ration, water, medical kit and clothing using the ‘Low Cost Low Altitude’ method. He said the conduct of the 2 courses is also aimed at enhancing synergy for effective Air-Ground integration, hence the inclusion of 20 Nigerian Army (NA) personnel on the Course alongside their NAF counterparts. In his remarks, the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who was represented by the Chief of Training and Operations, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) James Gwani, reiterated the importance of helicopters in counter-insurgency operations. “The use of rotary platforms has become imperative for close air support as experience over time has shown that rotary platforms are well suited for the fluid nature of the battlespace against insurgents”, he said. He added that the contemporary security challenges facing the Nation had necessitated a significant increase in manpower. The CAS noted that, since the commencement of his administration, the NAF had raised the number of personnel recruited into the Service while building the capacity of the NAF Regiment to its current strength and capability levels to effectively man the various NAF units. Moreover, in realizing the need to have personnel with specialized training to meet specialized needs in force protection, “the NAF had trained over 4,000 personnel both overseas and locally”. Air Marshal Abubakar noted further that the initiative had ensured that NAF Bases are well secured thereby providing the necessary conditions to guarantee mission accomplishment. The CAS advised the Course participants to imbibe the attributes and core values of the NAF which include excellence, honesty, courage, perseverance and adaptability during training to ensure success. “The Course you are about to undergo will require a lot of concentration and discipline to prepare you for the tough job ahead. You all have to earn your place and strive to become part of the elite team in your respective services”, he added. Air Marshal Abubakar, who expressed his gratitude to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, for the priority attention given to the training, operational and other requirements of the NAF, also thanked SkyBridge Tactical Training Team for again coming to Nigeria to conduct the FRIES Course. He expressed hope that the NAF would continue to build and sustain the cordial and long-standing cooperation and relationship with the USG. Earlier in his welcome remarks, the Air Officer Commanding Ground Training Command (AOC GTC), AVM Idi Amin, revealed that the HBDG Course, which comprised 20 NA and 20 NAF personnel, was aimed at equipping the students with the tactics, techniques and procedures for providing close air support to ground troops during battle. According to him, the combined training of NA and NAF personnel would further enhance synergy between sister Services and other security agencies in the fight against insurgency. He added that properly executed close air support would provide improved freedom of action for ground troops at all echelons during combat as well as in operations-other-than-war. 