Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has signed the Ekiti State Security Network Agency Bill 2020 into Law with the warning to the criminals to steer clear of the state. Speaking on Monday in Ado Ekiti while signing the passed bill, which established and give legal backing to the operation of Amotekun Corps in the state into law said, “There is no hiding place for criminal as Amotekun Corps will get you wherever you hide”. He called on investors from all over the world to come and establish businesses in the state, assuring their lives and properties will be adequately secured. The governor who noted that the resilience of Ekiti people and Yoruba race brought the security outfit to full operation said, “Since the advent of democracy in 1999, this is the first time when Yoruba people will speak with one voice without political or religious considerations”. Harping on why the regional security outfit was formed, Fayemi said, “As a responsible and responsive government, it is our belief that security is significant and we won’t toy with security of lives and property. “The current challenges of proliferation of small arms, ritual killings, banditry, youth restiveness, cattle rustling, insurgency and terrorism are daunting. “In tackling some of these menaces, which surfaced in the southwest region, the governors in the zone officially launched  Western Nigeria Security Network in Ibadan on Jan 20, 2020 at  and the bill that will form the legal framework was  passed by the State House of  Assembly . “Let me clarify that Amotekun will help the police to arrest, gather intelligence and information , arrest and prosecution of criminals  , tackle illegal mining, land trespass, cattle rustling, destruction of crops, trespass into farmlands, cultism, highway robbery, among others. “Amotekun is not a substitute to the existing security networks , but a complement to it. It is not for Ekiti people alone, but for everybody. As long as you are resident in Ekiti, you enjoy the right to be protected, so it is not for the indigenes alone. “Crime fighting is a collective responsibility. Those perpetrating crimes  are living  among us and let us be vigilant and help the Amotekun Corps fish out criminals in our midst”, he said. He charged the royal fathers to coalesce efforts with the  security network  to rid the state of criminals at the grassroots, The Speaker , Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon Funminiyi Afuye, said Amotekun was formed because police overstretched and overburdened. “I want to also douse the tension and clarify that it won’t compete with police but will complement it”. 