Northern Youth group under the auspices of Arewa Youth Assembly (AYA) has commended the President and founder of Belema Oil Jack Rick Tien describing as philanthropic activities as fulfilling the will, dreams and aspirations of late Sir Ahmadu Bello of blessed memories. A statement issued and made available to newsmen in Kaduna by Mohammed Salihu Danlami Speaker Arewa Youth Assembly, said Mr Tien who is the Sarkin Ruwan Hausa has completed many laudable projects in many states in the Nothern Nigeria including Bauchi, Borno, Katsina, Sokoto and Kaduna among many others. “No wonder, he has received many traditional titles as appreciation from many emirates in Northern region due to his gigantic contributions in the alleviation of poverty and suffering within the region” he said. “Jack Tien Rich who happens to be an indigene of Rivers state has done so many things worthy of praises for the North than many millionaires and billionares don’t do for their people in Northern Nigeria. He has touched the lives of widows, orphans, destitutes and has been awarding series of scholarships to countless number of students. “Since the untimely death of Sir Ahmadu Bello the Sardaunan Sokoto who is the architect of Northern Nigeria, we never knew a day was going to come when a fighter and liberator of Northern Nigeria aside sardaunan Sokoto will emerge. “No doubts, Jack Rich Tien is fulfilling the will and dreams of our founding father Sir Ahmadu Bello of Blessed memories as he happens to be a replica of Sardauna in the spirit of being de-tribalised, nationalistic, patriotic empowering youths, cultural development, unity in diversity and an astute leader. “We want to use this medium to call on the people of Northern Nigeria to make maximum use of this golden opportunity given to them and also imbibe the maintenance culture in order to ensure passage of commissioned projects to the next generation. The maintainance of these projects will serve as motivation for Mr Jack Rich to do more in addition since he is determined as ordinarily he might chooose to use his wealth on flashy and expensive things instead he choose to help others. We also want to call on the federal government to notice the good work of Mr Jack Rich across the nation since the inception of Belema oil three years ago as their performance have surpassed other existing oil companies who have been operating for decades. The federal government should thus encourage, acknowledge and support Mr Jack where and when necessary. Only recently he performed the ground breaking / foundation laying ceremony of Daura Children hospital, Daura Katsina State which is the first of its kind in Northern Nigeria. AYA called on the entire people of the North and Nigeria at large to emulate the path of this unique Nigerian who indeed is a re- birth of Sardauna Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello.