A group of intellectuals from the northern region under the aegis of Arewa Education Renaissance Initiative (AERI) has advocated emergency measures from all tiers of government, communities and other relevant stakeholders on the state of education in the North. The group also called on government at all levels to immediately develop the political will to solve what it called “the disastrous, embarrassing and highly backward state of education in the North.” According to a statement by its national coordinator, Mallam Lawal Kankia, issued after its maiden meeting in Abuja weekend , the group observed that, “leadership at all levels needs to re-dedicate itself and rediscover the political will to deal with the problems related to education in the North; “There is tremendous interest at all levels of Northern communities that needs to be mobilised and harmonised to support all initiatives towards addressing the foundations of education in the North and commence the process of rebuilding educational values and structures that will give the region a new lease of life and a better chance to survive as a community,” the group added. Ibrahim noted that  the present state of all forms of education in the North, reflects a major disaster which requires a total and decisive response from governments, communities and individuals. “Urgent attention is needed from relevant stakeholders in tackling the problems of out of school children,  Almajiri system,  girl-child education and the relationships between quality of education, development and security, “ the group further stated. It noted that “Policies for improving enrollment and quality of teaching as well as expanding infrastructure at all levels of education should be revisited and improved upon.” The group added that it has resolved to mobilise and support all intellectual, managerial and political resources in the North towards raising awareness about the dangers of the state of education in the North. “We have equally resolved to engage all political levels and other stakeholders towards contributing ideas and other means of improving policy, towards generating resources and support for radical improvement of educational standards in the North”, it declared. “The immediate measures that can cure the North of its educational backwardness according to the group include raising funds for all levels and forms of education,” it said. The group also canvassed huge private investments in education to radically improve the quality of education in the region. It also wants “stronger commitment by relevant bodies to enforce existing legislations on universal and compulsory basic education in the country.” On Almajiri education, the group suggested the need to adopt realistic and productive policies in dealing with it, pointing out that “current initiatives in dealing with the phenomenon are unlikely to solve the problem.” “There is also the need to improve the quality of consultations with relevant stakeholders; the mobilization of resources to support and anchor decisions. “Cooperation and collaboration among governments at all levels as well as raising awareness about the decisiveness that the problem of Almajiri requires is another strategy in addition to the sensitive approach it requires”, it added. The AERI said it believes that “to achieve the goal of improving education in the North, the involvement and commitment of all stakeholders is most desirable, likewise, the need to be more creative and innovative in all we do.”  