Dr. Joshua Ubandoma Laven is the executive chairman, Langtang North Local Government Area of Plateau State and the only local government chairman produced by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this interview with ACHOR ABIMAJE, he said despite his legal travails to secure his mandate, he enjoys a cordial relationship with the state governor, Simon Lalong. You are the only local government chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Plateau State, what will you say has been your experience in the last 100 days in office? You know my travail very well, the crisis that I went through. To God be the glory that at the end of the day, I became victorious at the Court of Appeal after the petition tribunal. Governor Simon Lalong, a lawyer who respects the rule of Law, swore me into office on October 9, 2019 and January 2020 was my 100 days in office which coincided with his election victory at the Supreme Court; that is how significant that day is for him and me. I enjoy a good working relationship with him despite the fact that I am from the opposition PDP. What I thought he is, is not what I am seeing; to some extent, he gave me a free hand to run the affairs of the local government; he is not too concerned about the local government; he allowed us to use whatever comes for the development of the people apart from the frontline charges that are statutory deductions to finance the state and local government projects like Universal Basic Education, Primary Health Care and most projects that the state and local government are enjoying. But for other capital projects, money from VAT, no local government chairman will say the governor has anything to do with our VAT. I score him high when it comes to that, he is doing well. As for my achievements in the last 100 days in office, first, I ran into crisis with military men who were supposed to come to Langtang to take over because of the crises in the Wase Local Government Area axis where the militia attacked Chief Lot, the second class chief of Kadarko. Some militia men came there around August/ September, 2019 and a lot of Tarok people where killed, if you could remember that crisis. The military took over that environment for a while, and someone was caught which created a lot of crises. The Tarok people that were displaced came to Langtang immediately and there was this order that came from above that the military should come and ransack every where. But we got intervention with my counterparts from Langtang South and we were able to meet with Major General Agundu, the Commander of the Operation Safe Haven (OPSH). We also saw the Chief of Defense Staff, and we told them to give us the benefits of doubt that we will recover illegal weapons in Langtang land.  How were you able to recover the illegal weapons? Yes, that is one of my achievements because before Christmas period in Tarok land,  people used to go to bed around 7pm to 8pm. But now, people stay awake till the next day; they can now sleep with their eyes closed. The criminality in Langtang he stopped. Before I came in, there was no water in the local government secretariat; they used to buy water but today, there is a solar powered borehole where there and running taps within Langtang Local Government.  How have you fared in terms of running the local government council? Everything has been smooth except in December when we had a short fall in our allocation which affected the salary of political appointees, especially; the chairman and the councilors who were not paid their salaries. But last week, we were able to clear that. This month, the subvention is a little better but it is not enough to pay salary of political office holders and my appointees. It will be fair to say that the governor does not interfere with the local government finances; there is a free hand. I am in the opposition and I have nothing to hide. I have had control over VAT since I came into office, nobody has told me that I must use the money for anything untoward, apart from statutory deduction which we are still appealing that the state government should intervene. There must be collaboration between the two tiers of government but there are some of those deductions that can be waved because they are just unnecessary deductions. For instance, the cost of servicing the Local Government Service Commission, Local Government Ministry, Universal Basic Education, contribution to Operation Rainbow, a security outfit should be handled by the state.  What’s your perception of Governor Lalong’s leadership style? We in the southern zone are calling on him to give us attention too; to work on our roads and schools. We need his attention. He has done enough for the northern zone; it is the turn of southern zone, he should come back home and link our roads so that Langtang-Shendam and Ajikamai road will be relieved. Bandits are attacking people on the road now because of its bad state. If those roads are fixed, our security will be able to checkmate criminality. Northern Zone was absolutely developed by former Governor Jonah Jang and he has equally done a lot. In fact, the Solar light everywhere now in Jos is commendable; we need a replacement of same in the Northern zone too; I am not being sentimental about that. Also, in the Central zone, the road that links from Du to Mangu Halle should be given due attention because that is the only road people from central and southern zone ply mostly and the quality of the road needs to be improved upon. Generally, I think his administration has done fairly good and now that his victory has been affirmed, I think he should concentrate now that he is free of litigation.