As the impact of the Coronavirus outbreak hits home, businesses in Nigeria are beginning to feel the impact as activities slowed down and optimism of business operators further dwindled the Purchasing Managers Index and Business Expectation reports for February released by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has shown. The business expectation survey revealed a dwindling optimism in the economy as the overall confidence index (CI) dropped to 26.6 index points in February as against 28.3 points in January. Also the business outlook index for March 2020 dropped when compared with 61.4 index points for February. The optimism on the macro economy rose from the construction sector which had 1.0 points last month compared to 0.5 points in January, while it dwindled for services and industrial which had 14.7 and 8.3 points compared to 16.1 and 9.0 points in January. The level of optimism remained the same for the wholesale/retail sector at 2.6 points. Meanwhile. PMI which measures business activities had seen a slowdown in expansion in January following December festive activities but had not picked up in February. Compared to 59.2 index points recorded in January, the Manufacturing PMI in the month of February stood at 58.3 index points. Expansion had been recorded in 12 of the 14 subsectors in the manufacturing sector. according to the survey report, transportation equipment; petroleum & coal products; Nonmetallic mineral products; Paper products; cement ; textile, apparel, leather & footwear; Furniture & related products; food, beverage & tobacco products; plastics & rubber products; Fabricated metal products; chemical & pharmaceutical products; plastic and rubber products and Electrical equipment had recorded growth above the 50 per cent threshold while the Primary metal and Printing & related support activities subsectors recorded declines. At 58.9 points, the production level index for the manufacturing sector grew for the 36th consecutive month in February 2020 but at a slower rate compared to 59.6 points recorded in January. Out of the 14, 10 manufacturing subsectors recorded increased production level, three remained unchanged while one recorded a decline. New orders index grew At 59.1 points last month but at a slower rate when compared to its level of 59.7 points in January 2020. Eleven subsectors reported growth, while the remaining three recorded declines in the review month. The employment level index for February 2020 stood at 56.4 points, a slower growth rate compared to 57.3 points recorded in January as nine of the 14 subsectors reported increased employment level. Three subsectors remain unchanged, while the electrical equipment and printing & related support services subsector recorded lower employment level in the review month Likewise, the composite PMI for the non-manufacturing sector stood at 58.6 points in February 2020, recording a slower growth compared to 59.6 points recorded in January. Business activity index grew for the 35th consecutive month at 59.3 points indicating expansion but at a slower rate compared to 59.8 points recorded in January. The employment level Index for the non-manufacturing sector stood at 57.8 points, indicating a slower growth in employment compared to 58.9 points recorded in January. Of the 17 surveyed subsectors, 14 recorded growth in employment level in the review period, the Management of companies subsector recorded no change while two subsectors recorded declines in the employment level. 