For restoring peace to the troubled Plateau State, Governor Simon Lalong has been named Governor of the Year by a media firm. ACHOR ABIMAJE reports. For ensuring the return of peace  to Plateau state and sustaining the path of reconciliation,Governor Simon Lalong has emerged  the Daily Independent Newspaper’s Governor of the Year 2019. This cheering news was communicated to the Governor in a letter delivered by the Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief of the Daily Independent Newspaper Mr. Steve Omanufeme during a visit to Government House, Rayfield, Jos. While making the presentation, Steve Omanufeme explained that the selection committee selected Governor Lalong after a vigorous scrutiny. He said, “The committee resolved that the selection of the Governor of the Year should consider security as a major issue, because it is the primary duty of every government as it forms the pillar on which other indices rest. Without security, there will be no development and even what has been achieved will easily be wiped out”. Lalong according to the Managing Director, became an obvious choice because he has been able to bring calm to Plateau State by pursuing the path of peace and reconciliation while also fighting crime. This situation he acknowledged, is gradually bringing back the old glory of Plateau State which is undoubtedly the Home of Peace and Tourism. The Editor-in-Chief explained that although the security challenges in Plateau State have not been completely resolved, the initiatives of Governor Lalong have proven to be effective in ensuring that violence is curbed drastically through institutional development such as the establishment of the Plateau Peace Building Agency, which is the first in the country and a model that is being replicated. Governor Lalong while accepting the nomination described it as a humbling experience,considering the fact that his passion for peace is not only a natural instinct, but a responsibility as the Chief Security of the state. He said: “I was surprised when I heard that you had selected me for the Governor of the Year Award because I always do my work without expecting praises or awards. I am always convinced that the search for peace is the right thing to do because there is nothing we can ever achieve in an atmosphere of violence and rancor, that is why I made peace my number one priority since assuming office and by the grace of God, we have made a lot of progress. “We know that there is still more to be done, hence our determination to keep building institutions that will bring our people together so that we can identify the trouble makers and criminals and deal with them appropriately”. Lalong also told his guests that the state recently held a stakeholders meeting and resolved to reinvigorate the Operation Rainbow SecurityOutfit and commence the implementation of the community policing initiative enunciated by the Inspector General of Police. LEADERSHIP Sunday recalls that in his effort  to tame the tide of the rising wave of violence in the state, Governor Lalong had established the Plateau Peace Building Agency PPBA in 2016 which is now headed by a Director General,  Mr. Joseph Lengmang. The agency was created to nurture and promote mutual trust among residents of the state. The agency is also expected to work out steps that would promote harmonious co-existence among ethnic and religious groups in the state. PPBA, established by an Act of legislation in February 2016, had a primary mandate of preventing violent conflicts and consolidating on the peace currently being enjoyed in the hitherto conflict ridden Plateau. “Our mandate is to seek out the issues and deal with them at the latent stages with the aim of tackling them before they escalate into violent conflicts. “This is the first time Plateau State is having an institution to deal with conflicts; we have found that waiting until things get out of hand has only worsened already bad situations,” the agency’s DG said. Lengmang further explained that, the agency was working with state and non-state actors towards a collaborative synergy that would make Plateau a peaceful haven for all. He said that the agency had begun its mandate by conducting advocacy campaigns to enlighten the people on the functions of PBA and how it is contributing to peace building. “We found that we needed to create a lot of awareness; we also need to sensitize the people on the benefits of peaceful co-existence. Governor Lalong  was not relenting in his effort to ensure lasting peace in the state as he  recently declared Friday a free working day and  public holiday to celebrate the day of forgiveness and reconciliation in the state. Lalong had on February 7th  last year inaugurated  the ‘Garden of Forgiveness’ in Jos, the state capital. The Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Danladi Atu, in a statement said  the government instituted the day to highlight the “importance of forgiveness and reconciliation in the process of peace building in the state.” The state government also recently  promised that youths who voluntarily give up small arms in Lantang North and Langtang South councils will be empowered. Lalong announced this during the community-driven arms recovery and rehabilitation pilot programme at Langtang North Council’s  secretariat. Dane guns, pistols, revolvers, live ammunition and explosives that were recovered, were dropped by the youths and handed over to the governor, who officially transferred them to Commander, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Maj-Gen. Augustine Agundu, at the event. The governor said that the gains recorded during the exercise would be easily eroded, if economic re-integration did not follow immediately towards empowering  the vulnerable youths. He congratulated the youths for laying down arms, noting that most criminal activities and crises in the state were directly linked to illegal possession of arms. Earlier, Gen. Agundu, had  disclosed that there were pockets of armed militias in the state who had continued to hamper peace-building initiatives for more than 20 years. The initiator of the event and chairman of Langtang North, Laven Ubandoma, explained that the arms were initially retrieved from armed groups who attacked the people. To ensure a crisis-free society, Ubandoma said he facilitated the recovery of over 1,000 small arms and light weapons within the Tarok ethnic nationality of Plateau. Governor Lalong, in a remark shortly after receiving the award as the Best Governor of the Year 2019 (Peace and Security) at Eko Hotel and Suites Victoria Island Lagos said “the award is dedicated  to the good people of Plateau State who have worked very hard and made sacrifices for the restoration of peace in the State. “I wish to pay special tribute to those who lost their lives, properties or sustained various losses because of the crises our state witnessed in the past. “ The state government was grateful to President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria Muhammadu Buhari for supporting and encouraging us to pursue the path of peace and reconciliation in Plateau State. “My profound gratitude goes to all security agencies, civil society organizations, faith-based organizations, traditional, community and religious leaders who have supported our Rescue Administration to promote peace, security and reconciliation, we are grateful.” Lalong said his passion for peace and security is guided by the conviction that without peace, development is impossible, adding that, “that is why we have invested time, resources, and set up institutions like the Plateau Peace Building Agency to foster peace, security and reconciliation. “We are consolidating on peace and security of Plateau state with many initiatives including the implementation of Community Policing and strengthening our Operation Rainbow. Before we came into office, people were leaving Plateau for fear of crises. Today, the reverse is the case as more people are coming into Plateau daily to do business and settle down. Many who had left are now coming back.” The Chairman of the northern state governors’ forum further said many investors, international organizations, and foreign missions who had earlier put an embargo on visiting Plateau State, have since lifted the ban and also visited Plateau. According to him, Plateau State remains the preferred choice for hosting national and international conferences, not only because of good weather and scenery, but because of peace. 