The Ebonyi State Governor Chief David Umahi has promised to undertake the education of all three surviving children of the slain Abia -based Ebonyi business couple. The victims, Mr. Darlington Uzonwa, and Mrs Chinyere Uzonwa were brutally murdered by the devil -may-care robbery gang along Secretariat Road Umuahia on January 25, 2020. They were dispossessed of their cash before being shot by their assailants. Their children, two of who were with them in the family car when the incident occurred escaped the robbers’ bullets by whiskers. The deceased were, last Saturday (March 7), buried in their home town , Ugwuegu Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Moved by the sorry state and hopelessness of the children , Gov. Umahi thereafter the burial invited the children of the victims and their Guardians to Government House Abakaliki for a meeting. The Governor who expressed shock and sadness over the ugly incident condoled with the family and prayed God to grant them the fortitude to overcome the shock. He urged the children not to “over sorrow” but allow the peace of God to comfort them. The Governor announced a donation of N3 million succour for the secondary education of the children as well as their up-keep. Gov. Umahi equally pledged that the State Government would cater for the university education of the children once they were through with secondary school. The affected children – Priscillia , 17; Solomon , 16; and Judith 12; are in SS ll, SS l, and JS1 respectively.
Gov. Umahi urged them not to despair but repose confidence in God, assuring them that the state would not abandon them. His words : ” Be courageous. I stand with you. Before leaving office I will make sure I pay for your university education.” The Governor urged them to be guided by the fear of God and commit their future totally into God’s care “who knows how to judge” the criminals responsible for the untimely death of their parents. Responding, the son of the deceased, Priscillia, thanked the Governor for coming to their rescue. She said they would be eternally grateful to Gov. Umahi for the kind gesture , adding that they will not disappoint the state. In his response, their uncle, Mr. Gregory Uzonwa poured encomium on Gov. Umahia who he said had shown uncommon love for the family. He said the Governor’s gesture would go a long way in assisting the family to overcome the trauma of the tragedy. ” Today we have seen the biblical David in Ebonyi. You have given us hope when the Iroko of our family fell down. You have lifted our spirit and rekindled our hope. God will show you uncommon favour for this gesture ”
.
The uncle promised to ensure judicious use of the governor’s large for the purpose it was donated.