Pension stakeholders have warned the federal government against borrowing from the N10.22 trillion pension fund assets. The stakeholders, while responding to the proposed plan of the government to borrow about N2 trillion from the pension pool to fix infrastructural deficits in the country, noted that, such step should not be taken without due consultation with relevant parties. The president, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba, said, the decision was devoid of effective consultation with the stakeholders who own the funds collectively. He said the government must realise that pension funds is a joint contribution belonging to workers and employers, hence cannot be borrowed at will. “Government need to be reminded, that the contributory pension scheme which came into being in 2004 is fully funded by workers and employers and it is privately managed by Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs). The funds are in the individual Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of beneficiaries,” he stressed. The main objective of the scheme, he said, is to ensure that, after retirement, every worker in public or private sector, who had contributed to the scheme, receives his/her retirement benefits as at when due. “It is important to stress that the N10 trillion pension fund is not warehoused in pension commission which is the regulator, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the pension fund administrator (PFA) or the pension fund custodian (PFC). The fund is warehoused in the private individual Retirement Savings Accounts (RSA) of contributors, who are workers and beneficiaries,” he stressed. The pension fund administrators, he pointed out, are investing for maximum return on investment for the benefit of the beneficiary and not borrowing. The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) equally rejected reported plans by the federal government to borrow about N2 trillion from the pension fund to augment infrastructural development, saying, it is a threat to the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). The director-general of NECA, Dr Timothy Olawale, umbrella body for employers in the country, said: “The idea of the pension fund of workers is to guarantee a meaningful and modest life after employment. “It is, therefore, unacceptable for government, for whatever reason, to dip into the funds without taking into cognizance the regulations guiding investment of the Pension fund and consultation with stakeholders.” The NECA boss contended that “It is unthinkable for government to borrow from the pension fund when the citizens have not felt the impact of the mounting debt of government at all levels. What is paramount to contributors and other stakeholder alike, is the safety of the fund, which, unfortunately, government cannot guarantee. The action of government has the potential to threaten the scheme and erode contributors’ confidence.” He urged government to stop without delay any discussion relating to the use of the Pension Fund as this is unnecessary, risky and unacceptable. While we support investment in infrastructural development, government should utilise the recovered Abacha loot and other recovered/forfeited stolen funds into infrastructural development and not dip its hands into the Pension Fund, he pointed out. Similarly, the director, Centre For Pension Rights Advocacy (CPRA), Mr Ivor Takor, said, the fact that the Pension Reforms Act (PRA) 2014 which establishes the new pension scheme and instrumental to the rise in pension savings to the tune of N10 trillion as at the end of January, 2020, only stipulates that the pension assets could be invested, but objects to borrowing from it. The DG stressed that, “Pension funds in nature contribute to a nation’s huge pool of long term investable fund. Therefore it should not come as a surprise to anyone that the huge pension fund assets in the country will attracted the attention of the federal government for infrastructural development. To him, “The funds are invested by the Pension Fund Administrators on behalf of the workers, based on guidelines issued by the Regulator. The investment is carried out with two principal objectives, which are adequate return on investment and the safety of the fund Pension Fund Administrators who are in businesses, he said, have the interest of their shareholders first, while another person or individuals are secondary, even as trade unions have the interest and welfare of their members as their principal objective. Stressing that Retirement Savings Accounts of workers are not guaranteed by the Federal and State governments nor any other Organisation for that matter, he added that, accounts and the funds in them are open to operation and investment risk, which is borne by the owners of the accounts. To him, “The law doesn’t confer on the federal or state governments, the power to decree or order how the funds in private individuals Retirement Account should be invested. They can negotiate the terms and conditions under which they are ready to do business with those who have legal ownership and power to invest the fund.” Government, especially, the federal government, he warned, should have at the back of its mind the fact that some of the owners of the fund who have retired, are yet to be paid their retirement benefits as a result of federal government delays in paying their accrued rights of pension under the defunct Defined Benefits Pension Scheme. 