With the COVID-19 epidemic becoming a global issue, airports are on their toes to put in place strict preventive measures. ANAYO ONUKWUGHA writes from Port Harcourt. Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of viruses that cause illnesses ranging from the common cold to more severe diseases such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV). A novel coronavirus (nCoV) is a new strain that has not been previously identified in humans. Coronaviruses are zoonotic, meaning they are transmitted between animals and people. Detailed investigations found that SARS-CoV was transmitted from civet cats to humans and MERS-CoV from dromedary camels to humans. Several known coronaviruses are circulating in animals that have not yet infected humans. Common signs of infection include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties. In more severe cases, infection can cause pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome, kidney failure and even death. Standard recommendations to prevent infection spread include regular hand washing, covering mouth and nose when coughing and sneezing, thoroughly cooking meat and eggs. Avoid close contact with anyone showing symptoms of respiratory illness such as coughing and sneezing. The deadly disease, recently broke out in  China and has spread to eight countries including United States and Singapore, with over 800 people infected and 30 killed in the past few weeks. Few days ago, the Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, said Nigeria will not be stopping passengers from China from entering the country once they have been screened at the airport, in the wake of the outbreak of Coronavirus. Ehanire, however, advised Nigerians and non-Nigerians planning to travel to China to suspend their trips, if possible, until further notice. According to the Minister, it has become necessary to issue a travel advisory to Nigerians “as this is one of the ways to prevent the exportation of the disease into the country.” He advised all intending travellers to China to delay their travel plans “except it is extremely essential for them to do that trip”. Ehanire said: “All persons arriving from China or any country that has a major outbreak, even if they have no symptoms at all, to self isolate, meaning that they stay indoors in their homes for at least two weeks. “And if they develop any symptoms, like cough, catarrh, sneezing, breathing difficulties within this period, to report to the nearest health facility.” Nigeria joined the rest of the world Wednesday, to place international airports on red alert as countries intensify the screening of inbound passengers, following an outbreak of the deadly coronavirus in China. Few days ago, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) advised passengers and other airport users to comply with all quarantine procedures at airports nationwide to prevent the importation of the virus. According to FAAN’s General Manager, Corporate Affairs, Henrietta Yakubu, all the equipment and personnel used in combating the deadly Ebola virus in 2014 were still much in place at the airports and were being deployed accordingly. Yakubu stated that FAAN had always had thermal scanners at its airports to monitor the temperature of passengers and capture their pictures. She said: “When passengers walk pass the scanner, it registers their temperature. And if it’s too high, they are pulled aside for observation. “FAAN, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, has confirmed the adequacy of the facilities at the nation’s airports, to prevent the importation of the virus through the airports. “Passengers are therefore advised to submit themselves for routine quarantine checks whenever they are asked to.” The Port Harcourt International Airport (PHC) is located in Omagwa, Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Port Harcourt is the third busiest international airport in the country by passenger traffic. Located in the oil hub of the country, the airport plays a pivotal role in Nigerian development. Cargo movements at the international airport increased by 17.56% in 2017. The upward trend in traffic has been constant over the years and growing passenger/cargo traffic called for the enhancement of facilities at the airport. A visit to the airport showed that the management was not unaware of the position of the Port Harcourt Airport and seems determined to explore necessary proactive measures towards preventing Coronavirus in the airport. According to Mr. Alfred Itua, Head of Cooperate Affairs, Port Harcourt International Airport, all equipments and measures have been put in use to prevent the dreaded Coronavirus. Itua said: “Right now, the Federal Ministry of Health under the Port Health, Port Harcourt International Airport has mounted a termo scanner at the arrival and departure wings to screen passengers. “Basically, they look at their temperatures, in case any passenger comes up with very high abnormal temperature, our health officers are expected to immediately call FAAN’s attention and such patient would be taken to FAAN’s clinic located at the airport for a secondary observation. “During the secondary observation at FAAN’s clinic, there are hand held termo scanners which would be used to remeasure temperature of the suspected traveller, protective clothing are there for the medical staff, face masks, hand gloves and hand sanitizers are already in place at the airport clinic. “These equipments are meant for further examination and observation in the event of any suspected case of disease. “The test kits are available both at the international and domestic wing, as a matter of fact, the airport clinic is stationed very close to the domestic wing of the airport making its medical services very close to users of the Domestic wing.” He however, said that since the outbreak of the Coronavirus in China, there has not been any incident of affected patients at the Port Harcourt International Airport. The FAAN image-maker said: “We have necessary medical checks in place to screen our passengers but in an event of any suspected case, further actions would be taken to contain spread. “On passengers response to routine medical checks, Itua said that passengers were cooperating with the trend. “Passengers are really cooperating with our officers, they are very much aware that the outbreak of Corona virus was detected in China. “Passengers are well informed so we don’t have difficulty directing them to the screening site for routine checks.” However, a top official of the airport, who pleaded for anonymity, expressed fear  that the disease could spread to Nigeria, calling on  the Federal Government to make further measures to ensure that it  did not spread to the country. He said, “There is fear; one cannot rule out that. But it is now left for the Federal Government to know what to do concerning this. “There has been this sensitisation that if you have high temperature or you are feeling cold or feverish, go to hospital to assess the situation and see if it is  Coronavirus or Lassa fever.”