The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Ekiti State has intensified its awareness campaign on the deadly coronavirus, saying necessary measures have been put in place to protect corps members deployed to the state against disease. The state Coordinator of the scheme, Mrs Emmanuella Okpongete who stated this on Thursday, at NYSC permanent orientation camp in Ise-Orun/Emure Ekiti during the official opening and swearing-in ceremony of 2020 Batch ‘A’ Stream I corps members deployed to the state assured that, “there is no cause for alarm on the viral disease”. Okpongete added that scheme remains alive to its core responsibility of catering for the welfare of corps members and protecting its host communities. “Permit me to inform us that following the outbreak of Coronavirus, the National Youth Service Corps Scheme took a proactive measure to guard against the contraction of the deadly viral disease by corps members. “Accordingly, the scheme has been in constant touch with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, as well as the Federal Ministry of Health for technical support to the scheme. “It is gratify to note the use of infrared thermometers as well as hand sanitizers, hand-wash containers and soap provided for all 37 NYSC Orientation Camps as strategies use to prevent any threat. “Similarly, the Ekiti State Government, through the state Ministry of Health as part of its effort to prevent the spread of the disease, brought to the camp some hand sanitizers and sensitization leaflets on Coronavirus shared to all in the ongoing course. These are aimed at getting requisite information’s on the virus to the camp community,” she said. Okpongete who revealed that 1,989 corps members comprising 991 males and 990 females were on parade, urging them to equip themselves by embracing the course with utmost seriousness it deserves. In his address, Governor Kayode Fayemi urged the corps members to see their one year mandatory national service as an opportunity to serve Nigeria and humanity. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Youth and Sports Development, Mr Michael Awopetu said it is also the platform for national unity, selflessness and perseverance. “Key into entrepreneurship programmes of the scheme to be jobs creator rather than being job seekers. The government will involve in the fight against HIV AIDS, rape, coronavirus among other”. He encouraged them to be hardworking, honest and respect constituted authority, by obeying rules and regulation to create Nigeria of their dream. “Put in your best in all you do, develop yourselves, be security conscious, expose evildoers in your midst. All hands must be on deck to achieve Nigeria of our dream,’’ he said. 