Police in Ekiti State have arrested one Okafor John for allegedly attacking two students of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, and forcefully collect money from them. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Asuquo Amba, who disclosed this while parading the suspects to the newsmen said John robbed his victims Olasehinde Taoheed Olawale and Peter Lucky at gun point. Amba said the suspect forced the victims to transfer a sum of seven thousand naira to his United Bank for Africa Account No 2141886420. “The case was immediately reported and the police went in search of the suspects. On 24th of February, 2020, Okafor John was arrested and he confessed to the alleged crime and mentioned one Kingsley as his accomplice”. Also paraded is a 24- year old Sunday Ogaji, who was arrested for allegedly having sex with a she- goat. The suspect who has since been arraigned in court committed the offence on March 4, 2020. The CP in a statement made available to journalists on Saturday, said : “one Ogaji Sunday  of Bashiri Ado-Ekiti caught having carnal knowledge of a she-goat inside one uncompleted building at Owode Quarters of Basiri , Ado- Ekiti. “On receipt of the information, Special Anti Robbery Squad operatives swung into action and moved to the scene where the suspect was rescued from the angry mob. “Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed to the alleged crime and said that was his second time of having carnal knowledge of an animal. Meanwhile suspect is in custody undergoing investigation”. Three persons, Adeyiwola Sola, Michael Oladipo and Ogunlade Samuel Abbey were also nabbed by the police for raping a lady and for allegedly belonging to a security secret cult. The CP said they were arrested after attacking a lady and forced her into an uncompleted building at Olorunsogo Area, where she was gang-raped. He said the suspect had confessed to belonging to Eiye Confraternity and that they actually committed the offence. The police Commissioner said his men also recovered  two Toyota Camry cars with registration numbers AKD 981FN and KRD 316 CF at Ido Ekiti’ after being stolen at an unknown locations. Amba added that “as soon as investigations are concluded, all the suspects arrested shall be charged to court of law for prosecution. “I want to enjoin all Ekiti State Citizens to be security conscious, vigilant and report any untoward incident or happening observed in your locality to the nearest Police Station”, he advised. 