Protocol I am short of words on the recognition, as the LEADERSHIP Chief Executive Officer – CEO of the Year 2019 Award, bestowed on me by the Leadership Newspapers Limited. My consternation is rooted in the fact that my headship of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) was barely seven months during the referenced year, having effectively retired from the services of the Corporation on 8 th July, 2019. Yet, the Leadership Newspapers Enlarged Board of Editors considered me worthy to be honoured with the award: the LEADERSHIP CEO of the Year 2019, setting a new standard, if you ask me. In a country where recognition comes only when you are on an official seat, the honour conferred on me by the Newspapers is one of a kind. I relish it zillions of times! I am profusely grateful to those who considered me worthy of the honour well after my leaving office. Hope, I dare say, is not lost in respect of service and recognition in our dear country, this much has been shown from the Leadership Newspapers’ gesture. The newspaper cited three or four key achievements of Management of NNPC under my purview in pursuit and achievement of President Muhammadu Buhari’s mandate between 4 th July, 2016 and 8 th July 2019 as bases for the honour. These it stated included: Expansion of exploratory activities aimed at boosting Nigeria’s oil and gas reserves which culminated into the discovery of oil in commercial quantities in Kolmani River II Well in the Gongola Basin of the Benue Trough despite serious security challenges; Maintained adequate and sustained supply of petroleum products nationwide at regulated prices despite the enormous complex business environment; Engaged in dogged fight against systemic Industry corrupt practices in petroleum products supply at official prices under a very complex environment. Here, the bar was raised by saving enormous financial resources (about $1.2billion saved by 2017 alone) through the Direct-Sale of crude oil and Direct-Purchase of white petroleum products (DSDP) scheme adopted for products import; and Lastly, successfully handing-over to a successor, a feat considered rare by the Media House pitched against recent history of the Corporation. Truly, these are key achievements of NNPC during my tenure as Group Managing Director of the Corporation. I cannot thank Leadership Newspapers enough for documenting this for posterity. However, while recognising the fact that this event is not one for soapbox, nonetheless, I crave your indulgence to inform that NNPC Management under my watch also recorded other profound achievements in addition to those enumerated above. A few worth a mention include: Developing new business models under our twelve Business Focus Areas (12-BUFAs) that saw some of our Subsidiary Companies being restructured thus turning them from cost centres into profit centres, contributing to the profitability of NNPC. Notable amongst these new Companies are: Duke Oil Nigeria Limited, new PPMC, NGMC, for example. Maintaining production levels well above 2million barrels per day. We had come into office when production was abysmally low; at the worst of times, as low as 800,000 barrels per stream day. Increased crude oil production by NNPC flagship Upstream Company, Nigerian Petroleum Development Company (NPDC) with the target being tripled pitched against production figures at inception of my tenure. Ensuring a boost in gas production to the extent that today, NNPC, through NPDC, is the largest supplier of gas to power sector and have exceed the gas demand of power stations who have become constantly unable to take all the gas supplied to the National Gas Grid. Ridding Government of huge financial commitments on Cash-Call payment by developing workable alternative funding arrangements with at least two Joint Ventures’ Cashcall arrears settled, others will follow soon. Devising sustainable teamwork between the Oil and Gas Industry and the numerous host communities in the Niger Delta to curb security challenges that had dipped crude oil production for some years back. Instituting a regime of transparent contracting/bidding processes in all our major projects enabling huge savings to Government. Public bid opening is now a given for the Corporation. Reducing cost of crude oil production per barrel from $27 to $22. Commenced the process of undertaking a wholistic rehabilitation of the Nation’s four refineries to boost capacity utilisation. Launched the condensate refinery model. This will increase the amount of in-country PMS production; and  I am delighted to note that the current leadership of NNPC under Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari is building on the foundation we laid to ensure that the Nation’s four Refineries roared back into life soonest. During our time, we conducted and concluded the audit of outstanding six (6) years accounts (2011-2017) of the Corporation and ensured that the NNPC books of accounts were kept up to date with 2018 Audited Accounts of the Corporation almost ready by July, 2019 when we left. We closed the pension funds gap and took measures to ensure sustainable pension payments to our NNPC and DPR Retirees and pushed the process of restoring the registration of NNPC Pension Fund Limited (NPFL) as a Closed Pension Fund Administrator (PSA). Certainly, there are other achievements we recorded which time would not allow me to enumerate. Despite these constraints, however, I thank the Chairman (His Excellency, Mr. Sam Nda-Isiah), the Enlarged Board of Editors and indeed the Management and staff of the Leadership Newspapers Limited for considering me worthy of the honour bestowed on me today. It gives me hope that a new culture is emerging wherein the labours of those who served the Nation, in one capacity or another, would not go in vain. Let me add that the success recorded by the Management of NNPC under my watch is collective; one borne out of team work. Consequently, I seize the opportunity of this medium to appreciate my colleagues who were instrumental to our success. Alhaji Isiaka AbdulRazak, Dr. Victor Babatunde Adeniran, Engineer Saidu Aliyu Mohammed, Mallam Isa Muhammad Inuwa, Malam Bello Rabiu Babura, Engineer Henry Ikem Obih and Engineer Anigbor Kragha. My thanks to these individuals know no bound. Above all, I must thank Mr. President, Muhammadu Buhari, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for his magnanimity in making my successful service, retirement from service and succession by Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari a model worthy of emulation. Thank you Mr. President. sustain the legacy you leave behind. This is the hallmark of leadership and is one achievement that I most admire which has been recognised by The Leadership Newspapers enlarged Board of Editors. To look back and see your successors carrying the same vision that you leave behind is an everlasting source of joy. If I may Quote some inspirational speakers to support this: Dolly Parton says: “if your actions create a legacy that inspires others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, then, you are an excellent leader.” Jack Welch also observed that: “Before you are a leader, success is all about growing yourself. When you become a leader, success is all about growing others.” Once Again, I thank the enlarged Board of Editors of the Leadership Newspapers Limited for considering me worthy of this honour as the LEADERSHIP CEO of the Year 2019. I thank you for your kind attention. Long live Leadership Newspapers Limited! Long live Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation!! Long live the Federal Republic of Nigeria!!! Dr. Maikanti Kacalla Baru, FNAEng, FNSE 19th March, 2020, Abuja, Nigeria.  Acceptance speech by Dr. Maikanti Kacalla Baru, fnae, fnse former group managing director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (nnpc) on the award of the leadership ceo of the Year 2019 by leadership Newspapers Limited 19th March, 2020 Abuja