Pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, has demanded an inquiry into the explosion that occurred along Akure – Owo expressway in Ondo State, in accordance with Ordinance and Firearm Acts . The group said the inquiry would  be able to determine the type of ordinances that exploded. National publicity secretary of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, in a statement issued and made available to journalists, expressed  displeasure with the rate of explosions in Yorubaland in recent times. Odumakin said , “First was the blast in Ekiti State in early February with investigation blaming it on human error. This was followed by the massive explosion in Abule Ado in Lagos which was attributed to some spurious pipeline explosion which we rejected because the long-range impacts of that explosion could not have come from pipeline explosion. “Till date we don’t know the owners of the articulated vehicles found on the scene of the Lagos explosion while the number of casualties and level of  suggested damage done to catholic- owned Bethlehem School suggested deliberate targeting. “While we wait to know the level of casualty in the latest incident in Ondo, we appeal to our people to be very careful in these perilous times.” He ,however, expressed  heartfelt sympathy with the government and people of Ondo State over the explosion that occurred on Akure-Owo road early this morning. He further stated that, “ All accounts so far indicate that the explosion occurred from a possible fire incident from a vehicle that was carrying explosives through the state.” Also, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Chief Olu Falae, has called for immediate repair of the road and compensation to the affected victims. Falae, a one-time finance minister and the Olu of Ilu Abo where the incident happened, described the incident as a great disaster. He said, “The two buildings that are very important to the Ilu-Abo community, Possibility Church and the school were destroyed. It is a great disaster to Ilu-Abo and Akure land.” Also, the state commissioner of police, Mr. Undie Adie, said, “The consignment was duly escorted by the personnel of Police Explosive Ordinance Department (EOD) that were equipped, trained and charged with the responsibility of taking care of explosives of any kind. “This consignment was duly escorted but unfortunately along the road here, the vehicle developed a fault. When the driver noticed it,( from the explanation of the escort commander), they had to move away from where there were houses so that they could put off the problem, that was when they parked and noticed that smoke was emitting from the engine.” Following the explosion which occurred along Akure – Owo expressway in Ondo State,the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), South-West zone, has demanded a proper investigation on the incident. The party further asked the federal government to develop strategies that would forestall the recurrence of such developments again. A statement issued by the party and signed by the zonal publicity director of the party, Mr Ayo Fadaka, condemned the recent development both in Lagos and Akure outrightly. Fadaka said the party found it curious that explosives were carelessly transported across the nation by all sorts of people, thereby continuously exposing people to unnecessarily harm. Meanwhile, no fewer than 100 residential buildings, schools, and churches were destroyed by an explosion suspected to be a bomb blast in Akure, the Ondo State capital. LEADERSHIP learnt that the blast which occurred in the early hours of Saturday cut off the ever-busy Akure-Owo road. It was also gathered that residents around the Akure airport were also affected by the blast. The blast caused apprehension among residents of Akure, Obaile, Eleyowo, Iluabo, Osi and its environs in Ondo State. The explosion also destroyed a popular church beside the road, “Possibility Church,” where some people were said to have been feared killed. A source told LEADERSHIP that it was a truck conveying dynamite that was bought at Ibadan, Oyo State enroute Auchi, Edo State, that got exploded at the airport junction, the scene of the incident. According to the source, the truck was flagged down by policemen at a checkpoint when they noticed a flame of fire under it, before it exploded. Meanwhile, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, and his deputy,Agboola Ajayi, have visited the place of the incident. Addressing newsmen after being briefed by the police commissioner , Undie Adie, Akeredolu described the incident as a monumental loss, urging the people to vacate the premises for security agents to carry out investigation. Akeredolu said, due to the uncertainty about the possibility of leftover explosive devices underground, people should be restricted from moving close to the scene of the incident. Addressing journalists at the scene, the state ommissioner of police, Undie Adie, informed that the detonated explosive was being conveyed to a quarry company outside the state when the truck developed fault and the device exploded accidentally.