Ahead of Tuesday, March 17, 2020, emergency meeting of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APCs), the leadership of the ruling party has removed the billboards of the national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole from his office. They also removed all his banners within the vicinity of the party’s secretariat and replaced. One of the banners at the main gate of the party’s secretariat was replaced with that of President M uhammadu Buhari. As at Wednesday, Oshiomhole’s picture and that of President Buhari were still on the billboard at the national secretariat. Meanwhile, a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos stopped the party from holding the NEC meeting without Oshiomhole’s loyalists. In a swift reaction, the APC leadership in Abuja, led by the acting national secretary, Chief Victor Giadom, denied knowledge of any new court order giving it conditions to follow before holding the NEC meeting. Consequently, the party said that the meeting will hold as planned. LEADERSHIP reports that a Federal High Court in Lagos had granted an interim injunction against APC from convening a NEC meeting without Senator Abiola Ajimobi as acting  deputy national chairman, Waziri Bulama as acting national secretary and  Prince Paul Chukuma as acting  national auditor. There was also an injunction against the APC from ignoring or refusing to recognise them as NWC members. Giadom stated this after a meeting of some members of the National Working Committee (NWC) at the APC’s National Secretariat in Abuja yesterday. He said: “As NWC, we just concluded our meeting just to inform the public that the NEC meeting scheduled for 17th March will still hold and every preparation towards that meeting is in top gear. I want to use this opportunity to invite all NEC members to attend the meeting. “I can tell you that every member of NEC is prepared to attend this meeting” he said. When asked about the court ruling, Giadom said: “Not to my knowledge. We will like to see the court order and if that happens we refer back to our constitution. We will take it up from that point. Justice Mohammed Liman of the Federal High Court in Lagos, who restrained the APC from holding  the NEC meeting, said that the party should not  “disturb, prevent or obstruct Waziri Bulama, Senator Ajimobi and Paul Chukwuma from carrying out their duties as acting national secretary, acting national deputy chairman (South) and acting national auditor of the APC, respectively.” The judge gave the orders after entertaining an ex-parte application filed by the Lagos State chairman of the APC, Tunde Balogun, which was argued by his lawyer, Gani Bello. Balogun had asked the court to compel the ruling party to recognise Bulama as the party’s acting national secretary; Ajimobi, as the acting national deputy chairman (South); and Chukwuma, as the acting national auditor of the party. The APC leadership had on Wednesday secured an order allowing the NEC meeting to hold from a similar court.