SAM EGWU in this report writes that the opposition PDP in Kogi State has a long way to go if it must remain relevant in the politics of the state. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi State, no doubt has a lot of sensitisation to do to remain relevant and be able to gain membership. Presently, most of its members in the localities have deserted the party, ostensibly for a more formidable and solid party in the state. Since the party lost election to the ruling All Progressives Congress,  (APC) in Kogi State, in 2016, most of the leaders of the party seem to have gone solo. The unfolding events in recent times give credence to the assertion in some quarters that the party lacks cohesion, as no particular person in the party can be pointed out as rallying point for the party in the state; all are assuming to be the leaders in their own esteem. The simmering noise became louder when a court of competent jurisdiction sitting in Lokoja, Kogi State judicial division ruled in favour of APC, that PDP had no candidate in the November 16, 2019 gubernatorial election in the state. A political analyst, Usmaila Abdul said it was a clear indication that a damage had been done even if the party was going to appeal the matter to reverse the ruling of the court of first mention. He noted that mutual suspicion has already been planted among the key players in PDP in Kogi who have vested interest and personal axe to grind in a matter which has overwhelming result. A former chairmanship aspirant, Hon Alfa Fidelis, noted in Lokoja, the state capital, that he has the magic wand to turn around the fortunes and make PDP  win election in the state again and again. He said he had worked with strong names in politics like Senator Amadu Ali, erstwhile National Chairman of the party. He further enthused that having worked closely with the Senator Amadu Ali, he would not need anything else to succeed than apply the principle of all inclusive rule as against divide and rule tactics which has colossal side effects on the party despite other abnormalities. He described the ruling APC government as misplacing its priority, stressing that the people have suffered a large scale degradation. Alfa stressed that time has come for the party to take over the leadership of the state in view of the suffering in the land, noting that Lokoja being the capital of Kogi State looks more or less like a village, allegedly neglected by the APC-led government has given to it pointing out that if urgent steps were not taken to wrest power from APC, there would be total collapse of the society. However, ahead of the forthcoming Local government election in the state, a political analyst based in Lokoja, Dr. Hammed Tarka, puts it succinctly that the present structure of PDP in the state has been infiltrated by other characters. To him, the party has been polarised. He argued that as a party in power for 16 years in the state to suddenly fizzle out at the threat of “don’t enter the state” and some former governors and party leaders could run away from the state, is better imagined than real. According to Hammed, “If the leaders were scattered at a time they were mostly expected to play the role of the leader at a critical time like election period, what do you expect the followers to do? They will move away to safety for dear life”. 