Hon Sada Soli Jibia is the Chairman, House Committee on Water Resources; he is the representative of Jibia / Kaita Federal Constituency, a member of the House of Representatives. He bares it all as he talks about work and personal life in this interview with Stellamaries Amuwa. Tell us a bit about your family? I am from Katsina State, I have 5 children, 3 boys and 2 girls, I have a godly wife all together making a lovely family.  What does your job entail? A lot but let me tell you just a few, my job gives me the opportunity to render public services, it give me the opportunity to be part of legislation that will make good governance and improve living quality of my people, which matters a lot to me.  How long have you been in politics? I have been in politics since 1994, I have been in tutelage politics from there I contested in 2006 and up till now I’m I remain in politics.  What inspired your decision into politics? I got inspired into politics after seeing how governance is deteriorating in the country. I got inspired because I want the quality of our laws to be strengthened so that the living standard of people will be improved.  Prior to becoming a politician, what were you doing? I was a teacher, thereafter I went into full blown civil service and then I became a parliamentary staff of the National Assembly for a period of about 14 to 15 years.  What has been the challenge when it comes to governance? There are challenges generally in governance especially getting people to really understand how the system works because there are different backgrounds of people that you meet and interact with. Then the other challenge is how you can position yourself to have the opportunity to render public service. There are lots of competitions, so it makes you really work hard to get through in order to render these services because I know and believe I have something to offer. What has been your relationship with the grassroots people in your constituency? I’m where I am today, first by the grace of God and by the benevolence of my people. I am very close to the grass root I have always identified with my people, I love them and I am passionate about them. There is nothing I do without thinking and feeling my people. It is my people that made me who I am by God’s grace. So there is nothing that I will do without reckoning with them. I cherish their closeness a lot and I will continue to be close to them for the rest of my life.  How do you unwind after your busy schedule? I sometimes lock up myself in my bedroom and then just crash into the bed and watch television or listen to the reading of the Holy Quran and then look at some few books in my Study, I relax that way, and get hope that I have given my body and soul what it should have.  How do you obtain your good look? I exercise every morning for a minimum of 30 minutes unless when I am sick or when I travel out of the country or out of my area but when I’m home I always exercise.  What does fashion and style mean to you? Fashion is a component of my personality and fashion defines an individual. I cherish fashion and believe in it because it makes you who you are by giving you the composure, that kind of confidence to go through challenges.  What genre of music do you listen to? I listen to country music, POP music and I listen to and enjoy my Hausa traditional music like that of Muhamman Shata, Dan Maraya, Audo Yaron Goje, and Alhaji Musa Dankwairo all those our famous Hausa singers because they make a lot of sense when they sing.  What would you say is your memorable childhood experience? My most memorable childhood experience is as a chiId I was always fearless inspite of any situation that confronted me. I was a very brave child.  What makes you happy? I am most excited when I impact people positively, when I see people around me happy it makes me happy.  What is your advice to the younger generation? My advice to them is that they should work hard; do not stay idle, working very hard will make you to become successful. Look around the world, all those who are successful in life refused to be idle. They did not just succeed they worked hard, they pushed forward, it didn’t just happen overnight. I advise our younger generation to do honest job and make it happen in life.