As Nigeria joins the global community to commemorate this year’s World Tuberculosis (TB) Day, stakeholders in the health sector have expressed worry that Nigeria may not meet the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) target of ending the disease by 2030. According to the 2018 global TB report, Nigeria is not only among the 30 high burden countries for TB, TB/HIV and multi drug resistant TB (MDR-TB) but is also ranked 6th among the 30 high TB- burden countries and the first in Africa. The report also estimates that tuberculosis kills 18 Nigerians every hour, with 49 Nigerians developing active TB every hour, seven of which are children. Stakeholders have, however ,attributed the challenges of TB response in the country to low TB case findings both in adults and children, poor TB treatment access, poor awareness and huge funding gap. Country director of KNCV Foundation, Dr Bethrand Odume, said that the funding gap for TB control is 60 per cent, adding that of the available 40 per cent of the over $200million needed,  only eight per cent are made available by the government and 32 per cent from donor agencies, especially USAID. On poor case finding, Dr Ayodele Awe, a representative of the World Health Organization (WHO), said each year Nigeria is supposed to get 439,000 cases but for the past 10 years, it has not gotten more than 100,000, implying that there is a huge gap of about 300,000 cases missing in the country. More worrisome is the fact that each case not detected can infect 10 to15 persons in a year. ”That continues to increase the number of cases. We have a study that said that the cases are in the community; they do not know they have TB. If we are not able to find these cases we will not meet the target on elimination,” Awe noted. On poor access, Awe said, ”We have only 25 per cent of health facilities in the country covered with effective TB service. That is about 8,000 health facilities, including tertiary, secondary and primary health facilities across the country. ”Why do we need special service for TB? TB is not like malaria or HIV that you can do at home on your own. For TB, you have to take the sputum and take it to the laboratory. So we have to go to a place where we can get a laboratory because not all hospitals can provide TB services and this result in access restriction. ”There is also poor access to diagnosis. We have only 398 gene-expert; we are supposed to have 774, one in each local government area. The machine is about N8million and it is actually easy for government to purchase them if they really want to.” Awe further observed that because many Nigerians do not know that early symptom of TB is persistence cough for two weeks or more, with or without blood, ignorance also makes people, even when they are coughing for over two weeks, to resort to buying cough medicines instead of going to the nearest health facility. He urged governments at the state and national levels to meet their counterpart funding support for TB programme, explaining that while partners are buying the drugs and the gene-expert, government should make provision for awareness creation. Awe underscored the need for Nigerians to know the early symptoms of tuberculosis, even as he stressed the need to report any case of cough that exceeds two weeks for TB testing, screening and treatment. He said that since tuberculosis was declared a global emergency in 1991, Nigeria had been the number one country out of all the countries in Africa that has the highest burden. Meanwhile, in a bid to tackle the high burden of undetected cases of tuberculosis in the country, relevant stakeholders recently took the awareness campaign to Wuse market, a popular market in the Federal Capital Territory. Speaking while fielding questions from journalists, KNCV Foundation country director in Nigeria, Dr Bethrand Odume, said that the awareness campaign was part of foundation’s activities to mark the 2020 World TB Day which has the theme, “It’s time to end TB in Nigeria”. Lamenting that one case of tuberculosis, if not detected and treated, can be transmitted to about 15 to 20 people within one year, Dr Odume said that early detection could help in cutting down the transmission chain. He said it was unfortunate that out of the expected cases of TB, only about 120,000 cases are detected, adding that the foundation was doing things differently this year and has decided to move its WOW truck to the market to offer free screening services to the people. He continued: ”The Wow truck screens, asks questions and once you are presumptive, we do a chest x-ray. Those that are found to have TB will be linked up for continued test. The whole exercise is free. “The major problem for TB control in Nigeria is awareness. Many people out there do not really know what TB is or what the symptoms are. That is the main purpose why we are here in this market today to try to encourage people to create awareness, sensitize the people on TB’’. KNCV is an international center of excellence for TB control and promotes effective, efficient, innovative and sustainable tuberculosis control strategies in a national and international context. Some of the beneficiaries of the screening commended the stakeholders on the initiative. One of them, Ikechukwu Eze, said, ”Ordinarily, I would have not, on my own, visited the hospital. I thank them for this gesture because in this market where we work, we come in contact with different people who come to buy from us. With this awareness, I am enlightened that any cough that last for more than two weeks is not normal”. Meanwhile, Members of the House of Representatives have pledged to buy one tuberculosis testing machine for their various constituencies. Chairman, House committee on Tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS and Malaria, Abubakar Sarki Dajiru, who disclosed this, said that the members are passionate about ending the menace of tuberculosis and will contribute in their various constituencies with the tuberculosis testing machines. “In the coming weeks, you will see debate on tuberculosis because of the serious attachment we have for the health sector. And after this debate, I assure you that each member will buy the tuberculosis testing machines”, he said. On poor budget release to the health sector, Dahiru blamed the budget office for not releasing enough money to the sector to tackle various challenges, assuring however that the house was working assiduously to ensure adequate release of funds budgeted for the health sector. WHO Tasks Nigeria, Others On Improved Investments Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has called on governments to increase domestic investments in Tuberculosis (TB). The world health body also called on health-care providers to implement minimum standards of care in line with its recommendations on diagnostics, treatment regimens and preventive therapy for high-risk groups. WHO Regional Director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti, in a statement, said, ”It is time for governments to position TB as requiring broader action beyond the health sector. We must engage other ministries, parliamentarians, community leaders, researchers, academic institutions, patient advocacy groups and people affected by TB. Multi-sectoral action is needed to ensure universal access to services. ”It is time for governments and partners to work together in addressing risk factors for TB, such as overcrowd living environments, high-risk occupations such as mining and health-care workers, and co-morbidities such as HIV, diabetes, and malnutrition in children. ”Ultimately, to end epidemics of TB and other diseases we need strong health systems as the bedrock of universal health coverage. For Africa to be free of TB, let’s work together to bring quality diagnostics, treatment and follow-up closer to communities, ensuring that no-one is left behind.” According to her, although the African region is making progress, it must be on track to achieve the 2030 SDG targets related to TB. Lamenting that the region continues to record more new TB cases than in any other WHO region, Moeti said, ”Only one in two people with TB (56%) across the continent is on treatment. Less than one in three children (29%) living with someone with confirmed active TB are on preventive therapy. ”TB control budgets are chronically underfunded, and most countries do not have information on families facing catastrophic costs due to TB. This is needed to track progress towards the SDG targets.” She however stated that the WHO was working with partners to train health workers in TB prevention and care to help reach high-risk groups and ensure best practices are applied.  