Nigerians in the first month of this year consumed more cooking gas than the period preceding it. Statistics released by the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) should that about 89,000 metric tonnes (MT) of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) were consumed in January 2020. The agency said that the country exceeded its gas consumption target for the month of January 2020. As a custodian of petroleum products data bank, the agency provides reliable data for all petroleum products operations in the country (imports and local) in line with her mandate number three (3) of the PPPRA Act 2003. According to government’s priority objective of attaining five million metric tonnes of LPG consumption by the year 2022, which puts the national consumption target at 83.33 thousand MT per month from 2018 to 2022 estimates, Nigeria has recorded 89.91 thousand MT LPG utilisation in the month of January 2020 with a positive variance of 7.9 per cent above the targeted estimated figure. The upsurge is attributed to the impact of the federal government’s policy and programme on deepening LPG penetration nationwide; increased awareness and utilisation of LPG in the domestic economy; improved performance of private sector operators in the products supply and distribution chain; entrance of new players (investors) in the sector as a result of the enabling environment created; and Inclusion of new LPG storage and reception facilities in the NLNG domestic Supply chain. …GenCos Fail To Generate 3,655mw Meanwhile, Electricity Generation Companies (GenCos) comprising gas-fired and hydro stations have said that they could not generate 3,655 megawatts of electricity due to unavailability of gas. This was made known in a daily energy report by the Advisory Power Team, Office of the Vice President. The report noted that 359 megawatts of electricity was not generated due to unavailability of transmission infrastructure during the period. The report, however, said that the GenCos released an average of 3,934 megawatts/hour of electricity into the national grid on Thursday. It said that the electricity sent out by the GenCos was up by 272.89 megawatts from the 3,661 released on Wednesday.