An export consultant, Abdulkadir Hassan has projected that Nigeria has the potential to earn $4 billion from the export of coconuts. Hassan who spoke to LEADERSHIP said the partial closure of border by federal government is currently creating new opportunities for Nigerian coconut farmers and new players are strongly motivated to go into coconut farming, especially with the improved species that start fruiting early. Hassan who is also the chief executive officer of ZHE Africa Ltd, said though the country is among the top 20 producers of coconut, a large chunk of coconut being consumed is imported from neighbouring countries with Ghana supplying about 60 per cent. Other suppliers according to him include Republic of Benin and Togo, but recent partial closure of land borders has affected the supplies and the retail price has skyrocketed across the country. Hassan said, that Nigeria produces about 288,000 metric tons per annum on 39,000 hectares harvested area and that on the other hand the country has the potential of being among the top three largest producers if the area under cultivation is increased, new plantation developed and modern farming techniques employed. This low production is mainly as a result of old plantation, low level of technology adaptation and low-producing varieties, but with new plantations emerging as well as adapting innovation and modern farm production techniques, the output would significantly increase, thereby reducing reliance on neighbouring countries and position the country to take a huge chunk of the $4 billion global market. According to him, the impact is yet to be fully optimised as the level of value addition is still low, with most of the derivatives being imported from mostly Asian countries. However, these are about to change with growing awareness and interest as more processing facilities are being established. Hassan said developing coconut value chain has so much economic advantages as the product can be used to produce a wide range of products and byproducts. He said for instance, juice, oil, confectioneries, milk, sugar/sweetener, syrup, chips and so on could be produced from the nut while the coir and husk are used to produce foot and door mats, bed, mattresses, carpets, flower pots, baskets, blocks, aquariums, mosquito repellant, briquettes and charcoal amongst others. Even the leaves and the trunk serve as source of extra income, as they can be used to produce brooms, mats, bagging and packaging materials, thatch roof, sheds, camps, furniture and containers. With the increasing interest in food safety and growing demand for healthy food and beverages, the consumers continued to demand for coconut based products, for example coconut based sugar, milk and snacks are friendly and very safe for consumption, while people with special needs and those that prefer organic foods have continued to patronize coconut based food and beverages, he said. He said further that growing demands for coconut and it derivatives from domestic and international market makes coconut farming and processing very attractive, and even domestic demand is huge, taking into consideration the large population. There is high demand from food and beverage, healthcare, manufacturing, cosmetics and chemical industries amongst others, hence it offers dual benefits of preserving and attracting foreign exchange. “Value addition offers more opportunities taking into account job and wealth building avenues to be created across the chain. As a result low level of value addition, the country imports coconut derivatives from mostly Asian countries. Even the low nuts produced in the country are grossly insufficient, as such import from neighbouring nations, mainly Ghana, Togo and Benin is used to bridge the gap. The border closure has further put pressure on demand as the volume of coconut coming from these countries has drastically reduced; the retail prices of coconut and its associated products have been on the increase across the country.” he observed. Globally, Hassan said the coconut market is worth about $4 billion, and by up-scaling production using modern technologies and innovation, Nigeria can take advantage of the growing market. The raw coconut itself and most of its products including the byproducts are exportable as they are in demand. Being a healthy industrial raw material and source of many household products, it can be used in many sectors, and growing world population has continued to grow the market. “Coconut waste can be processed and converted into useful products as every part of coconut is useful. “In fact hundreds of products can be generated from coconut plant and its waste. The growing demand for organic and eco-friendly products has continued to brighten the export market potentials.” he said. He recalled that in 2016 about 700m litres of coconut water worth about USD2.2b was traded. The shell can be used to produce building and construction materials, the trunk and fibre serve as raw materials for generating packaging items, briquette, building materials, mart and so on, which can be beneficial to Nigeria.