The Senate Committee on Communications has expressed satisfaction with the various regulatory interventions which the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has taken to ensure improved service delivery and bridge access gaps in the country. Chairman of the committee, Senator Oluremi Tinubu who led other members of the committee to NCC’s head office in Abuja on a familiarisation and fact-finding visit said, given the challenges facing the industry and the achievements of the commission so far, its (NCC) regulatory interventions and performance deserved to be appreciated and commended. The executive vice chairman of commission Prof. Umar Danbatta who led the management team to receive the senators provided a detailed briefing of the commission’s core mandates, its various initiatives that have helped to improve wider access to telecommunication as well as the challenges in the regulatory environment, which formed the basis for the comments made by the committee members. “We are here on a familiarisation and fact-finding tour to the commission but I must say that we are impressed by the presentation made by the executive vice chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, on the activities of the commission so far in regulating the industry. “We particularly see the Platinum Category Certificate of Award for exceptional organisational performance which NCC received from the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) in 2017 as a testament to your recognition as a performing agency of the Federal Government. However, we want you to do more for Nigerians, ” Tinubu said. Earlier, while addressing the committee members, Danbatta reeled out industry statistics which captured the growth recorded in the industry. According to him, Nigeria attained and surpassed 30 per cent broadband penetration target in December 2018 and the penetration has further increased to 38.49 per cent as at December 2019. Also, Danbatta said the number of active phone lines had increased to over 185 million; active Internet subscriptions on global system for mobile communications (GSM), fixed wired and voice over internet protocol (VoIP) networks have equally increased to over 126 million. The EVC added that teledensity is 96.76 per cent and quarterly contribution of telecom to gross domestic product (GDP) has reached 10.60 per cent. The NCC, through the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF), according to him, has reduced the number of access-gaps clusters in the country further from 114. Hitherto, some 38 million Nigerians were affected by access gap clusters. Danbatta explained to the committee what the commission has done so far with respect to spectrum administration in the sector. He stated that despite the crucial role of spectrum, and being a scarce resoure, the commission had deployed spectrum quite effectively for the development of the telecom industry. Some of the programmes in that regard include development of spectrum trading, ongoing effort to leverage Television White Space (TVWS) to address rural connectivity, the Proof of Concept (PoC) non-commercial trial of Fifth Generation (5G) networks, and development guidelines on commercial satellites deployment. Danbatta said the commission’s efforts in licensing infrastructure companies (InfraCos) to cascade fibre optic into the hinterland to reach all the 774 local government areas (LGAs) in the country was succeeding and would bolster government’s effort at expanding the nation’s broadband infrastructure. He explained that various inter-agency collaborations, frequent engagement of state governments to discuss issue of Right of Way (RoW), multiple regulations, taxation and other challenges were consciously articulated towards improving deployment of telecom’s infrastructure to ensure improved services for the consumers. NCC, Danbatta said, had also issued various directions to mobile network operators (MNOs) with respect to roll-over data and forceful subscriptions to ensure that consumers were not shortchanged by market forces. Similarly, he said the introduction of Do-Not-Disturb (DND) 2442 short code to manage unsolicited messages, the Toll-Free Number (622) for the escalation of complaints and the 112 Emergency Communication Number which is connected to the emergency communication centres (ECCs), were conscious policies put in place to ensure that the rights of telecom consumers were safeguarded and to ensure that Nigerians enjoy derivable benefits of new communication technologies.  