The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC has been urged to investigate alleged $30m funds used in the 2019 Bayelsa gubernatorial election. In a petition written and submitted at the EFCC headquarters in Abuja, yesterday, the Coalition for Transparency & Democratic Leadership, the Executive Director of the Coalition, Kingsley Eluma “We write as a responsible Coalition of Civil Society Groups with the objectives to wipe out corruption and its associated vices in our public institutions in Nigeria.” Part of the petition submitted to the EFCC further stated that “it is important to state very unambiguously, that Nigeria is a nation guided by law and orders, so is our election processes. It is important to state here that our laws pegs spending of money for election purpose to a particular threshold, upon which whenever any candidate or party violates, it becomes a violation of the law of the land. “The Nigeria procurement acts also suggests processes through which government contracts can be awarded and spelt out categories of companies that are not eligible for such contracts. “It is therefore worrisome that a political party grossly violated these laws through their activities during the last gubernatorial election in Bayelsa state and it is important that your very responsible commission look into the following allegations and bring offenders to justice as you have always done even in the investigation and prosecution of Arms funds for campaign in the same November 16th gubernatorial election in Bayelsa State.” The petition also stated that, “we have it on strong authority, that the Niger Delta Development Commission allegedly awarded contracts to private companies for the purpose of funding the election without following the procurement laws in the land. “We have also received credible report with evidence that confirmed that the sum of Five million dollars ($5million) was facilitated from a private person, for the purpose of election which violates the law of the land. “There is also allegation that the Management of the Niger Delta Development Commission gave the sum of Five million dollars ($5 million) for the purpose of the election.” “We also gathered that all oil major companies were mandated to donate certain sums of money which totaled $20 million, an act that grossly violates extant laws.” While calling for full investigation, the petition said “it is upon this background that this coalition is appealing to the dutiful, performing and outstanding Economic and Financial Crimes Commission under your astute leadership to carefully look into these allegations and investigate the issues raised with a view to bringing all concerned to justice in the interest of the nation and to serve as deterrence to other politicians from taking such actions in future. “Mr. Chairman sir, this alleged act committed is one that has to do with economic crime and has its huge effect on the economy of the state and nation, and if such grievous offences are allowed to go without necessary punitive measure, it has potential and capacity to embolden other persons to commit same. “We therefore passionately plead that this case is given same attention like you did to Senator Joshua Dariye and former Governor Jolly Nyame. “We must also use this medium to commend EFCC under your performing leadership for your giant strides and unmatched results that is making corruption to become uninteresting to Nigerians. We assure you of our readiness at all time to support you and your office with useful information and solidarity.” Meanwhile, an official of the EFCC, who received the petition said the EFCC will look into it as they do to all petitions. 