Nigerians have been advised to refrain from panic buying of petroleum products because the national stock, especially of premium motor spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol is enough to last the country for over 60 days. The assurance of sustainable fuel supply came yesterday from the group managing director of the Nigerian National petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari. He told newsmen in Abuja that the country has PMS to serve her for over 60-days and charged the people not to engage in any panic buying because the stock of the products is adequate. Kyari spoke on the heels of both the federal and state governments deploying various strategies including stay-at-home order to Nigerians to help contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. On how the corporation hopes to ensure the supply of petrol in a critical period the country has found itself, Kyari said that the NNPC had the support of all stakeholders to ensure adequate supply of petroleum products in the country. He said: “There is absolutely no scarcity anywhere; our supply is robust, we have fuel that will last this country even for 60-days if assuming we do not import any. “Of course, people because of the pandemic, stay at home, may try to conserve fuel; there is no need to do this. Maintain your normal life, we have secured all assurances that trucks will be moving freely across the country throughout this period of difficulty and supply will be sustained,’’ he said. He appealed to Nigerians no to flood fuel stations as there was no need for that. Commenting on the National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) order to petrol tankers drivers to vacate the depots, Kyari said that NNPC would continue to engage them. “No restrictions; as we speak now loading is going on, trucks are moving around, no action like that will come to fruition,’’ he added. And as part of its concerted efforts to combat COVID-19 in the country, NNPC has handed over medical equipment to the University of Abuja Teaching Hospitals in Gwagwalada, the Federal Capital Territory. A press release by the corporation’s group general manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr Kennie Obateru, at the weekend, listed the equipment presented to the hospital by Kyari, as an oxygen generating plant, a brand new ambulance, six NNPC operational ambulance vehicles, one big ventilator, one small ventilator, patient monitor, hospital beds, bedside cupboards, overtop tables, air conditioners, fully automated five-part hematology analyser and semi-automated chemistry analyser. Others were alert blood culture analyser, Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) device, pro-express Samsung printer, binocular microscope, table top centrifuge and pipettes. Kyari said that “government cannot do this alone. Health systems, the world over, are getting overwhelmed. Countries with stronger health systems are struggling to contain the pandemic. In the light of this, the oil and gas industry is collaborating to strengthen Nigeria’s response to the pandemic. These efforts, coordinated by the minister of state for petroleum resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, will support government agencies in providing needed resources both human and materials required to curb this pandemic,” Kyari averred. He added that the federal government, through the Ministry of Health, had mapped out strategies to respond adequately to the outbreak of the disease in Nigeria, saying a multi-sectoral team, led by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), was at the forefront of effort. Kyari commended the minister of health and the entire ministry, the NCDC, the Public Health Department (PHD) of FCT, University of Abuja Teaching Hospital and the entire medical community in the country for their efforts in combating the virus, stressing that the NNPC remained grateful for their dedication in safeguarding the lives of Nigerians. “It is obvious that to fight this menace, we all have to collaborate to ensure that Nigeria defeat this virus,” Kyari appealed. On his part, the medical director of NNPC Medical Services Limited, Dr Mohammed Zango, said that the corporation as a responsible entity was making the donation to meet the urgent medical needs of the isolation centre in Abuja and to make it more effective in delivering on its mandate. Earlier, the chief medical director of the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Prof. Bissallah Ekele, commended the NNPC for rising up to the occasion by supplying the essential medical equipment to the organisation, noting that the gesture would help the hospital to save lives. He observed that the teaching hospital had never been given such a huge and generous support in the 26 years of its establishment and promised that the equipment would be judiciously used. Responding on behalf of the director-general of NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, who was unavoidably absent at the occasion, the cemtre’s director of Administration, Alhaji Yahaya Abdullahi, described the medical equipment donated by the NNPC as the largest intervention so far received. 