The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has been honoured as the 2019 Independent Newspapers’ Governor of the Year for his administration’s commitment to improving the state’s economy and youth empowerment. Obaseki was honoured alongside his counterparts in Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje; Plateau State, Simon Lalong; Cross River State, Ben Ayade, and Ebonyi State, David Umahi. His Royal Majesty, the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II was also honoured as the Independent Newspapers’ Bridge Builder of the year 2019. Addressing journalists after receiving the award in Lagos, the governor said the award showed that people are watching as there is a lot to be done to improve the lives of Edo people, noting, “This award tells me there is a lot of work ahead of us, as people are watching our efforts and have recognised the little effort we are making. “We must begin to act knowing the world is watching as we stick to our beliefs and ensure we continue to work for the people of Edo State. The years ahead are going to be very challenging, given what I have seen here today. We are confident that Edo people will continue to support our administration as we go through the next few very difficult years.” Obaseki added, “This award is a revalidation of the promise we made three years ago, to revitalise Edo State and make it an economic hub, as it used to be. We promised to create 200,000 jobs for our people and tonight, this award is a recognition that we have kept to our promise to Edo people. “An independent assessment team of BusinessDay Newspaper scored us high as it reported that our administration has created over 150,000 jobs for Edo people. I dedicate this award to my Deputy Governor and the Edo people for their support.” Edo Deputy Governor, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu said three years down the line, the little effort of the administration has been recognized, assuring the people of the state more development. “We have domesticated governance at the grassroots as anybody can assess the government and the people have taken ownership of governance. The results are the several awards being received by the governor,” Shaibu added. Delta State Commissioner for Information, Mr. Ehiedu Aniagwu, congratulated Governor Obaseki on the award, describing the Edo State Governor as a calm goal-getter, who has achieved tremendous feats just in three years of governing the state. “Despite the challenges, he has continued to do well for his people,” he added. An Edo State indigene, Mr Osahon Abbey, described the governor as a silent achiever who wants the best for Edo people, noting, “Governor Obaseki deserves this award and I know with this, he will be motivated to do more for us.” The Oba was represented at the event by some senior palace chiefs. One of the representatives of the Benin Monarch, Chief Osaro Idah, expressed appreciation to the organiser for the honour.