The governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom has commissioned the new complex of the Centre For Food Technology and Research (CEFTER) at the Benue State University, Makurdi. HEMBADOON ORSAR reports. The governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom, has commissioned the Centre For Food Technology and Research’s (CEFTER) complex at the Benue State University, Makurdi. The new CEFTER complex comprises of 10 modern lecture halls, 250 seat auditorium, 29 offices, two laboratories  and a 100-bed space  hostel for male and female students with all necessary utilities. The new complex was put in place to expand CEFTER’s capacity for innovative research in control of post harvest loses in West and Central Africa. Speaking at the commissioning of the complex, Governor Ortom charged  its management to ensure that CEFTER remains a real place of excellence, where competency and performance are given precedence over every other consideration. Represented by his deputy, Engineer Benson Abounu, the governor commended the leadership of the university for its numerous developmental strides that are enhancing conducive learning in the institution. He said:  “I want to particularly applaud the university management  for the construction of the complex, which it won in a  competitive bidding involving over 100 universities in the West and Central Africa” Ortom described Benue State University as a centre of excellence in teaching and research, saying the construction of the new complex will not only provide post graduate education to  the students, but will also offer workshops and trainings to staff of the university. “This centre will not only serve as a centre for training post graduate students, but will also become a full-fledged factory where our local farm produce will be processed into different kinds of nutritious food like yoghurt, cassava biscuits, tomatoe paste and  high-quality table water among others,” he noted. The governor, however, lamented the pains suffered by farmers in the state due to post-harvest losses, but expressed government’s willingness to partner with private investors to address the problem of processing the enormous food crops produced by farmers in the state. In his remark, the Executive Secretary  of National University Commision (NUC),Prof. Abubakar Rasheed  commended the Vice Chancellor, Benue State University Professor Msugh Kembe and the Centre’s  leader, Dr. Barnabas Achakpa-Ikyo, for successfully implementing the Africa Centres of Excellence projects, saying the commissioning of the new centre speaks well of their commitment to reposition the CEFTER. Represented by the director, Finance and Account, Sam Onaji, Rasheed said  “as you know , the ACE-1 project started in 2014 as the World Bank’s first high scale regional project in higher education”. According to him, the main objective of ACE has been to strengthen the education and applied research of key priority programmes. He added: “Six years into the project, it is safe to say that we have achieved most, if not all of the project, though there is still a lot more to be done to improve relevance and quality of higher education programmes and training. “The ACE project has shown that with the right opportunity and environment, African universities can deliver high quality and impactful results. Here in Nigeria, we would like to congratulate CEFTER for the excellent achievements”. According to him, all the projects development objectives have been met with approximately 2,000 PhDs and 10,000 Msc students across health science and agriculture programmes, adding that it has met the global bench marks with 57 programmes obtaining international accreditation. He enumerated some of the successful contributions of CEFTER to include food nutrition and hygiene training, collaboration with the ministry of education to address food and nutrition for primary schools within the state. He disclosed that based on the success story of the centre, the World Bank has scaled up the ACE projects with the approval of the First Africa Centers of Excellence for Development Impact at $145 million, covering Senegal , Burkina – Faso, Ghana, Guinea  and Djibouti, the second ACE Impact for Development recently approved to support Nigeria, Niger, Gambia, Benin and Togo in the tune of $131 million with ADF co- financing another one for $50 million. Earlier, the Director of CEFTER, Dr. Barnabas Achakpa- Ikyo, an associate Professor had said that the complex covers 25 percent of the total budget of the World Bank-funded Africa Centre of excellence project one (ACE-1). Achakpa-Ikyo explained that the core objectives of ACE project is to enhance the quality of higher education in Africa through effective implementation of postgraduate education of African youths, who would acquire the necessary skills and competences to deal with Africa’s developmental challenges. According to him, “The centre’s focus is on the control of post-harvest losses in West and Central Africa and the core objectives in the last four years of the existence of the Centre have been to develop a critical mass of well -trained African students in the control of post harvest losses, to empower African Researchers to identify technologies that will reduce this menace to develop pertinent technologies  through applied research as well as engage stakeholders such as local communities, farmers and industries in the dissemination of technology information about post-harvest losses.” He disclosed that CEFTER is among the four ACEs out of the 23, in West and Central Africa to achieve 100 percent of results on the project. He added that the university through CEFTER, has also furnished a food analysis laboratory, equipped a home economics laboratory with baking facilities and as well procured/refurbished equipments and upgraded many laboratories at the Benue State University (BSU), Federal University of Agriculture Makurdi ( FUAM) University of Mkar, Mkar, (UMM) and Akperan Orshi College of Agriculture Yandev ( AOCAY). “I want to let you know that in capacity building, we have trained 142 PhDs, 455 MSc and over 6000 Africans are on short term courses. We have also implemented OND programmes in pest control and produce management at AOCAY where 300 youths are trained for the programme,” he disclosed. While commending Governor Ortom, the Vice Chancellor and the entire University council led by Prof. Zachary Gundu, former Centre leader, Prof. Daniel Adezwa, for their various contributions which led to the success story of the centre, Achakpa-Ikyo said the project still needs additional funding to fully attain the purpose for which it was established. 