Crude oil prices dipped further yesterday, as the global economy continued to reel under the ravaging coronavirus. The prices, which earlier hovered around $30 per barrel crashed to $26.6 per barrel late last night before rebounding to $28 in the early hours of today. Industry players attributed the price fluctuation to demand fears and a new supply crisis that caused the sharpest fall in oil prices in decades. The Western Texas Intermediates (WTI) was hard-hit as its prices fell to the lowest of $26 per barrel since 2003. That same year, Brent, against which Nigeria’s crude is priced, sold for an average rate of $28.8, almost the same figure it rebounded to this morning. The lowest parameter for that era for Brent crude was $23.2 while the highest parameter was $34.9 per barrel. However, at 11 pm yesterday, Brent crude rose to $28 per barrel, but there were fears that this new rate may not be sustained because the economic crisis induced by coronavirus was far from being over. Even during Nigeria’s economic recession of 2016, the average rate of Brent crude was $45 and the lowest was $27.8 while the highest was $56.8. The current fall in oil prices followed the Energy Information Administration (EAI’s) latest weekly inventory report which estimated a two-million-barrel build for the week to March 13. EAI had noted that at 453.7 million barrels, crude oil inventories in the United States of America (USA) were three per cent below of inventory increasing by 7.7 million barrels, analysts had predicted an inventory build of 2.94 million barrels. Contrary to this expectation, this week, the market reported an inventory decline of 6.2 million barrels in gasoline and a fall of 2.9 million barrels in distillate fuels. This, compared with an inventory draw of five million barrels for gasoline a week earlier, and a decline of 6.4 million barrels in distillate fuel inventories. According to agency reports, refineries processed an average of 15.8 million bpd last week, unlike 15.7 million bpd a week earlier. The report indicated that gasoline production on the average stood at 10 million bpd, a little higher than the previous week while distillate fuel production averaged 4.7 million bpd, was almost unchanged from the earlier week. OPEC Members May meet Over Crash Already, members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) are pushing for urgent measures to halt price fall. Iraqi oil minister, Thamer al-Ghadhban, asked OPEC’s head and former group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mohammed Barkindo, to call an extraordinary meeting of OPEC+ so as to “discuss all possible ways” to reverse the oil price slide that began after Saudi Arabia announced it was going to start raising production and cutting prices. In a letter seen by Reuters, al-Ghadhban told Barkindo that an extraordinary meeting could help “to avoid adverse impacts on (the) short, medium and long term.” Iraq is among the oil-producing countries most dependent on their oil revenues, so it is natural for al-Ghadhban to be the first to voice concern after Brent slipped below $30 yesterday. The OPEC basket of crude grades is also trading at a little over $30. FG Cuts Fuel Price To N125 Per Litre In response to these fluctuations in oil price, the federal government yesterday announced a reduction in the pump price of premium motor spirit (PMS), popularly known as petrol, from N145 per litre to N125. The minister of state for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, who made the announcement after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting at the presidential villa, Abuja, said that the price cut would also affect kerosene and diesel. Noting that the price slash would be worked out by the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA), the minister said that the new price regime takes immediate effect. According to Sylva, the approval for the price reduction by President Muhammadu Buhari was a direct consequence of the falling oil prices at the international market due to the spread of the deadly coronavirus which has been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Crude oil prices recently crashed from $60 to $30, causing rising fears of a possible global economic crisis. Sylva said that going forward the government would allow the international prices of crude to determine the prices of the finished products in the country. He announced the price cut after he took time off from the weekly FEC meeting to consult with members of the organised labour in the oil and gas sector. Last weekend, the minister had hinted of a possible reduction in the pump price of fuel following the tumbling prices of crude at the international market. “This is a developing issue. We are still consulting; we are still following it closely. Of course, usually, the product prices follow the crude oil price but we are still consulting, we’ll get back to you, please, be patient,“ he had told State House correspondents last Friday. While announcing the cut in fuel price yesterday, Sylva said: „The drop in crude oil prices has lowered the expected open market price of imported petrol below the official pump price of N145 per liter. “Therefore, Mr President has approved that Nigerians should benefit from the reduction in the price of PMS which is a direct effect of the crash in global crude oil prices. “In view of this situation, based on the price modulation template approved in 2015, the federal government is directing the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to reduce the ex-coastal and ex-depot prices of PMS to reflect current market realities. “Also, the PPPRA shall subsequently issue a monthly guide to NNPC and marketers on the appropriate pricing regime. The agency is further directed to modulate pricing in accordance with prevailing market dynamics and respond appropriately to any further oil market development. “It is believed that this measure will have a salutary effect on the economy, provide relief to Nigerians and would provide a framework for a sustainable supply of PMS to our country. The Ministry of Petroleum Resources will continue to encourage the use of compressed natural gas to complement PMS utilization as transport fuel.“ Accordingly, the NNPC yesterday directed all its retail stations nationwide to change their retail pump price of PMS to N125 per litre. In a statement it issued last night, the corporation said that the directive was in compliance with that of Sylva. The corporation noted that it had reviewed its ex-coastal, ex-depot and NNPC retail pump prices accordingly. The statement reads: „Effective 19th March, 2020, NNPC ex-coastal price for PMS has been reviewed downwards from N117.6/litre to N99.44/litre while ex-depot price is reduced from N133.28/litre to N113.28/litre. These reductions will therefore translate to N125/litre retail pump price.“ The corporation noted that the immediate adjustment has huge cost effect on it, stressing however that it has to comply for the benefit of the citizens. NNPC continued: “Despite the obvious cost implication of this immediate adjustment to the Corporation, NNPC is delighted to effect this massive reduction of N20/litre for the benefit of all Nigerians. “Accordingly, all NNPC retail stations nationwide have been directed to change the retail pump price to N125/litre,“ the Corporation stated. In line with the directive, PPPRA confirmed that it had reviewed the pump price of PMS to N125 per litre, effective from March 19, 2020. A statement signed by the executive secretary, Abdulkadir U. Saidu, explained that the new price will guide PMS pricing in Nigeria for the rest of the month of March, 2020. He stated that the announcement of the new pump price was part of exercising one of its key statutory mandates to determine the pricing policy of petroleum products as enshrined in the PPPRA Act No.8 of May 2003. Saidu said: “In line with government’s commitment to the welfare and common good of the populace, NNPC was directed to review downward its Ex-Coastal price to reflect the current low oil price for the benefit of Nigerians. “Consequent upon the new NNPC ex-coastal price and taking into consideration all existing approved margins on the PPPRA pricing template, the new pump price of PMS is N125.00 per litre, effective 19th March, 2020. This new price will guide PMS pricing in Nigeria for the rest of the month of March, 2020. “Going forward, PPPRA will continue to monitor trends in market fundamentals and announce a monthly Guiding/Expected Open Market price at the beginning of every month, effective 1st April, 2020. “It is expected that the new price regime will emplace a more transparent pricing model, stimulate investment growth in the downstream sector and encourage resumption of products importation by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs), translating to more job creation as many depots and facilities that are presently dormant will now become active.” CBN Unveils N1trn Economic Stimulus Meanwhile, two days after it unveiled a six-point palliatives to ameliorate the impact of the coronavirus on the Nigerian economy and supply chains, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has increased its intervention in boosting local manufacturing and import substitution by another N1 trillion across all critical sectors of the economy. This is in addition to N100 billion in loan in 2020 to support the health authorities to ensure laboratories, researchers and innovators work with global scientists to patent and or produce vaccines and test kits In Nigeria to prepare for any major crisis ahead. CBN governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, who stated this in Abuja, yesterday, said that the management of the apex bank would meet with the Bankers’ Committee on Saturday to work out the modalities. Emefiele said that an implementation committee on the private sector contribution of N1.5 trillion infrastructure funding to link farming communities to markets as agreed at the “Going for Growth” Roundtable last week would be set up next week. Given the plunge in the price of oil, which dropped to $25 per barrel yesterday with its attendant low accretion to oil revenue, the CBN governor directed all Deposit Money Banks (DBNs) to increase their support for the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries to enhance local drug manufacturing, increased bed count in hospitals across Nigeria, in funding intensive care as well as in training, laboratory testing, equipment and research and development. In addition to the N50 billion soft loans to small businesses it announced last Monday, Emefiele said that the CBN would also increase its intervention by another N100 billion in loan in 2020, to support the health authorities to ensure laboratories, researchers and innovators work with global scientists to patent and or produce vaccines and test kits In Nigeria to prepare for any major crisis ahead. According to him, the bank would release details of how the unveiled facilities would be accessed and released, adding that the CBN had also set up the Financial Markets Situation Room to monitor the global market and advise the bank on adequate response. Emefiele also advised all DMBs and other regulated entities in the banking industry to trigger their business continuity plans to ensure that their staff and families are protected, and their operations remain largely undisrupted. He further directed the banks to adhere strictly to the directives, advice, and notices from the Federal Ministry of Health, National Centre for Disease Control and other relevant government agencies on national response measures to COVID-19. Before the CBN announced the economic stimulus, the Senate had called for the establishment of an intervention fund to stem the scourge. The Senate also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to address the nation and suspend the visa-on-arrival-policy. Stakeholders Hail FG Over Fuel Price Slash Nigerians yesterday lauded the federal government for taking the bold step of slashing the price of petroleum products in the country. The director-general of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf, said that the report of a slash in petrol price is a welcome development, especially in the light of the slump in global crude oil price. Yusuf however said what was desirable ultimately is for the federal government to come up with an exit strategy to pave the way for a complete liberalisation of the downstream oil sector. “This is an opportune time to do so. Over the years the Nigerian economy has suffered huge losses as a result of over-regulation of the downstream oil sector.  The sector had been denied private investment over the years because of the challenge of the pricing policy. We hope that this price review signals the commencement of the liberalisation of the sector,” the LCCI boss further said. Also reacting to the announcement, a top official at the Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria (DAPPMA) who did not want his name in print said the decision was a welcome development. Recalling that marketers have been in the vanguard of seeking for review of pump price of petrol, he however, said that the new regime would be balanced if government adjusts profit margin of marketers to enable them remain in business. According to him, depot owners have been operating at a low margin, adding that to establish a functional depot, an investor requires at least N2.5 to N3 billion, with an operating margin of about N3 per Liter. On the other hand, he said retailers like filling station owners operate at N5 per litre margin, adding that it costs only about N40 to N50 million to establish a petrol station. He also called on government to consider the volume of stock available before the review so that marketers don‘t lose their investment. LEADERSHIP had reported that penultimate week, the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN) had advised that the global reduction in crude oil prices was an exceptional opportunity to reform and restructure Nigeria‘s petroleum downstream industry. Tunji Oyebanji, MOMAN chairman, disclosed this in an interactive session with the media in Lagos on the opportunities for Nigeria to take advantage of the reduction of Crude oil prices at the international market. Oyebanji said that the drop in crude oil price would also open up petrol (PMS) importation by bringing multiple players to participate in importation, while appealing to government to review industry margins.