Nigerian stocks market investment declined by N1.199 trillion last month as it was characterised by continued bear run. Consequently, the gains recorded in January were wiped out. This made the market year to date loss as at February 28, 2020 to stand at 2.33 per cent due to sellout pressure, following the adjustment of the Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). There were also negative reactions to the 2019 full-year results and despite the high payouts from several companies, share prices continued to go south. Analysts, however, agreed that the continued slide reflects the lack of liquidity in the market as well as buying interests in the equity space, irrespective of the compelling value and high yields on offer. They stated that “the mixed global economic outlook and the ravaging Coronavirus have triggered panic sell-offs in advanced and emerging markets, as funds flow into bonds and commodities for the safety of their capital, amidst fears that the outbreak could hit the operations of some big companies and earnings performance.” Reviewing stock market activities in February, the basic indicators of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), All-Share Index shed 9.11 per cent to close on February 28, 2020, at 26,216.46 basis points, from 28,843.53 points at which it opened for the month. Market capitalisation declined by N1.199 trillion to close the month at N13.658 trillion from N14.857 trillion at which it opened for the month. On the sectoral indices, the NSE’s Industrial Goods index recorded the highest rise during the month, with a gain of 12.92 per cent, NSE Premium index up by 6.32 per cent, while NSE Lotus II appreciated by 1.75 per cent. On the other side, Consumer Goods index shed 22.74 per cent; followed by the NSE Banking down by 11.59 per cent, while NSE Oil and Gas depreciated by 10.87 per cent. NSE Insurance, Pension, and NSE 30 recorded a monthly decline of 7.57 per cent, 6.67 per cent and 2.53 per cent, respectively. The chief executive officer (CEO), Sofunix Investment and Communications, Mr Sola Oni, said that “market can never be static. In the middle of January, there was spike following the new policy on Open Market Operation (OMO) which prompted speculators to move money from unattractive interest rates in the money market to the capital market. Expectedly, the All-Share Index was upbeat. But shortly after, many investors were realising their profits and this led to bear run. It is all about understanding market psychology.” He noted that companies were beginning to announce their full year results, stating that investors should move closer to stockbrokers for advice on asset allocation. He added that the mood of economy would determine what trend to expect in March as the market basically serves as a barometer for the economy. However, Oni said that market fundamentals remain strong and discerning investors can take position through proper investment advice. Also, head, Securities Dealing Desk of Golden Securities Limited, Mr Azeez Bello, said that on the domestic front, the decline in NSE-All Share index may be attributed to possible flight to safety into dollar assets by investors on the back of apparent fear around a possible devaluation of the naira. He added that “we may also be experiencing a contagion from decline in indices across global markets as the impact of COVID-19 has continued to rattle economies around the world.” Bello asked astute investors to be on the lookout for positioning in fundamentally sound stocks as all of these markets unfriendly news may not last for too long. The chief operating officer of InvestData Consulting Limited, Mr Ambrose Omordion, said that February downturn has wiped away the previous month gains on negative sentiments and persisted selloffs that beset the equities’ market in the period under review despite the prevailing low rates and declining yields in the money and fixed income markets as economic performance indices remain mixed. Omordion said that equity prices nosedived on the floor of the NSE during the period to close lower, which followed the adjustments of the CRR by the CBN. “There were also negative reactions to the 2019 unaudited full-year results, just as the audited financials released in February came with corporate actions, such that high payouts from these companies did not influence their share prices since they continue to go south.  It was clear from money flow index that funds had left the equity market following the CBN’s actions and other happenings in the domestic and global space.  The selloffs in the market had led to some companies’ shares hitting their 52-week lows’’. “There was also the factor of rates in the money market dwindling with bond yields for the same period oscillating thereby keeping funds flowing into the financial market looking for a window with better returns, among others factors,” he said.