Gombe State governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has vowed to accord education sector in the state the priority it deserved for the overall benefit of the younger generation in the state. He equally bemoaned the bottom of the ladder academic performance of the state in national examinations, saying it was unacceptable and must be reversed. The governor spoke, when he received the report of the Prof. Buba Bajoga- led committee on tertiary institutions at the government house, Gombe. At the brief ceremony held at the executive chamber, Yahaya said his administration would study the recommendations  at the state executive ccouncil level, with a view to taking decisions and coming up  with implementation strategy that would be in the best interest of the people of the state. He expressed the belief that with the calibre of the committee membership, which comprised  academics of high repute and seasoned administrators, a thorough and comprehensive job must have been carried out, assuring that justice would be done to the document. Yahaya noted that his administration was already taking measures to improve the quality of education from the basic level, which according to him, would ultimately impart on tertiary education, as well as having effect on the state’s rating. “I  believe once proper and sound basic education is attained, certainly there will be optimal performance and our students will have the  ability to meet admission requirements to actualise their dreams of studying at institutions of higher learning, “ the governor added. Earlier, chairman of the committee, Prof. Buba Bajoga, said the observations and recommendations contained in the report, were made after the committee had visited all the campuses of the five institutions to assess their level of establishment,  preparedness and ability to operate in accordance with their enabling laws. Bajoga noted that the committee also examined the academic facilities,  including the infrastructure,  number and ranks of academic and non- academic staff,  academic support facilities such as workshops,  libraries,  laboratories, lecture theatres among others. In  the cause of their assignment, he said  the committee held consultations with stakeholders,  including traditional rulers,  community leaders and managements of the institutions under review and  received memoranda. The committee members  expressed appreciation to the governor for the opportunity to serve. 