Preparations for the forthcoming All Progressives Congress (APC) National Executive Committee (NEC) emergency meeting were stepped up yesterday as the party leadership began the cleaning up of the NEC Hall at the party secretariat in Abuja The hall will serve as the venue of the meeting, slated for Tuesday next week. The intense preparations came a few days after the embattled party chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) had dissociated itself from the meeting, which it declared as illegal. But the acting national secretary, Mr. Victor Giadom has insisted that the meeting would hold as planned. LEADERSHIP yesterday observed the cleaning and arrangement of the NEC Hall apparently for the proposed meeting. In fact, eight members of the NWC and other party leaders were at the national secretariat for a meeting yesterday which lasted for about three hours before it was moved to another undisclosed venue. Those in attendance included Giadom, the national vice chairman, North East, Comrade Salihu Mustapha, national vice chairman, South West, Pastor Bankole Oluwajana, and the national organising secretary, Emma Ubeduro. Also present were the national youth leader, Abubakar Sadiq, the national woman leader, Hajiya Salamatu Beiwa as well as some APC chieftains who are not members of the NWC. They included the party’s chairman in Edo State, Mr. Anslem Ojeshua and three others. No sooner had the meeting ended than those in attendance drove out in a convoy for another parley in an undisclosed venue. It was also learnt that the APC State Chairmen Forum will meet before the March 17 NEC meeting. The publicity secretary of the forum, Hon. Lawal Liman, who disclosed this, dissociated the group from the fraudulent vote of confidence passed on Oshiomhole. On Monday, the forum chairman, Ali Bukar Dalori and the secretary, Dr. Ben Nwoye, allegedly signed a statement, passing a vote of confidence on the suspended party national chairman. However, yesterday, Liman said that there was no time such decision was reached by the Forum. According to him, the group has not met but would meet before the NEC meeting.