Edo state All Progressive Congress, APC, governorship aspirants and former deputy governor of the state, Dr Pius Odubu, on Sunday said the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s would overcome his traducers who are bent on removing him from office. Odubu in an interview with newsmen also declared his support is “unwavering and unshakable in the face of the very egregious conspiracy of  a few party members against him spearheaded by the Edo State Governor.” He noted that Oshiomhole has shown time and again that he is a leader and a tough man. “Surely we all know that tough times never last but tough people do. “The number of lives he has touched and the development brought to Edo State outweighs his shortcomings and God will give him victory over those who he raised that are now plotting his downfall.” He urged party members and leaders across the country to leverage on his skills to deepen the positive leadership he has provided for the All Progressives Congress. Odubu urged his supporters across Edo State to keep faith with the desire to provide Edo State “with robust and approachable leadership with a human face in addition to continue to rally support for the National Chairman of our great party, the All Progressives Congress APC.” He said. On the allegation that Oshiomhole’s attempt to become a godfather was responsible for the crisis between him and Governor Obaseki, Odubu said “There is no godfather in Edo politics. Comrade Adams Oshiomhole fought godfatherism to a standstill and made sure that every vote counted while the people also led. They are just giving a dog a bad name in order to neatly hang it. Severally”. “We have challenged the Governor to name the overbearing tendencies or proclivity of Oshiomhole in Edo state and how he had tried to influence political activities in the state. Comrade Oshiomhole stated some time ago that he influenced the appointment of only one Commissioner in Obaseki’s cabinet and the said Commissioner had since been sacked. “Is that the way of a godfather? They know that there is no other way they can possibly fault Oshiomhole than to come up with the nebulous terminology that he is playing godfather. Governor Obaseki’s problem in Edo state is not located at the door step of Oshiomhole. He is responsible for his own problem because he has refused to show respect to party members and the leadership of his party in the scheme of things, so he should not blame Oshiomhole for his problems.” 