The Digital Switch Over (DSO) projects – a process where Nigerians can see more television and radio channels with higher sound and picture quality, can become one of the major achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, as it will herald Digital Terrestrial Transmission (DTT), but, sadly it has been hindered by a lot of controversies which has stalled the process, TUNDE OGUNTOLA report. The maxim, “To be forewarned is to be forearmed,” is very common in Africa. It’s mouthed by the day and almost everywhere through all ranks, age brackets and economic levels of the society, but does not appear to have been taken to heart in the country’s digitisation drive to compete with the rest of the world. When representatives from the 193 member states of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) met in Geneva, Switzerland, in June 2006, on 17th of that month, a statement was issued, resulting in a historic treaty signed by members, and would usher in a wave of digital broadcasting for 119 countries in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia – to begin with. 2015, which was set as the terminal or deadline date, seemed too far off. However, all of that long time seems so short for many countries that fall in the region marked for the first phase of the digital switchover from analogue to digital broadcasting, signed by all member countries of the ITU on June 17, 2006; but for those who prepared very well and have since achieved the migration, it was time well utilised. The countries that failed to meet the deadline acted as students who were ill-prepared for an examination would always find the time allotted for the paper too short, or the time appearing to have sped past too fast; those who did their homework well, often smile to the invigilator. Those countries in Region 1 for the digital migration are now feeling: those who made it are wondering if 14 years was not too long a time, whereas those who could not make it wonder if indeed, 14 years have speed past so soon. The Digital Switchover Over (DSO), the analogue switch-off (ASO) or the analogue shutdown, ultimately encompasses the process in which analogue television broadcast is converted to and replaced by digital television. The process primarily involves the conversion of analogue terrestrial television to digital. However, it also involves analogue cable conversion to digital cable, as well as analogue to digital satellite television.  FG Launches Pilot Phase Of Digital Transmission In Jos On April 30, 2016 History was made on April 30, 2016, in Jos, the Plateau State capital, when the federal government launched the pilot phase of the digital transmission project that kick-started the digitisation process in the country. Minister of information and culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, launched the pilot phase in Jos, while President Muhammadu Buhari anchored the Abuja launch in December the same year. Speaking during the switched-on ceremony in Abuja, President Buhari, who was represented by Vice-President Osinbajo, disclosed that the local industry is already experiencing a boost from the new vista in the digital economy, with several indigenous companies now manufacturing Set-Top-Boxes, as he was told that many of the set-top-boxes we are using for this Abuja switchover are produced in Nigeria. Prof Osinbajo said digitisation will create jobs in the area of content and software development, provide the platform for film producers and musicians to release their productions directly to households, which will, of course, substantially cut off piracy. “Even if only for the huge local and international opportunities of Broadcast, media, ICT, entertainment and education, we are right to say that we stand at the threshold of exciting times for job creation, entertainment and in general, local and international commerce,” he said. However, since the launch of the DSO in Jos, Abuja, Kaduna, Ilorin, Osun and Enugu the whole process has been stalled with several controversies.  President Buhari Suspends NBC DG, Kawu Over Alleged Corruption Amidst hullabaloos that led to a series of petitions against the erstwhile director-general, National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Modibbo Kawu, over alleged corruption, after several months of being investigated on allegations of corruption, he was suspended three weeks ago by President Muhammadu Buhari. The suspension is coming months after the anti-graft agency, ICPC, urged the federal government to suspend Kawu, and 32 other public officers/civil servants undergoing corruption trial at the time. Pending the conclusion of investigations into the allegations against him, ICPC said it is prosecuting Kawu for “using his position to confer corruption advantage.” Kawu and two others, Dipo Onifade and late Lucky Omonuwa were arraigned on May 2 over alleged N2.5 billion fraud by ICPC. The trio is being prosecuted on a 12-count charge for allegedly conspiring with each other, using the position of Kawu to confer a corrupt advantage. The federal government, under the Digital Switch-Over programme, had earlier approved the payment of N2.5 billion as “Seed Grant” to Pinnacle Communications Ltd owned by late Omonuwa.  Nigerians Decry Poor Signal, Drop In Channels From Free TV Residents of the Federal Capital Territory have decried poor digital signal and a drastic reduction in the number of channels offered by Free TV STBs, provided by the Digital Terrestrial Transmission (DTT). Speaking with LEADERSHIP Weekend, a resident of FCT, Sani Mohammed, noted that the number of channels he receives via the service has reduced since he renewed his annual subscription in January this year. According to him, “Prior to now, I do receive 26 channels but now I receive less than five channels. I regret renewing my Free TV. It does not worth it. I am yet to get the value for my money since I paid for the annual subscription.” Another resident, Maryam Abdullahi, said Nigerians deserve to enjoy DTT because technology is changing every day, but sadly, the reverse is the case, as the nation is lagging behind. “I have resorted back to DSTV. The main essence of DSO is to bring better broadcasting quality and channels, and create more opportunities for Nigerians to create more jobs as they said. But something is wrong somewhere. The whole stress does not worth it