The United States Department of State has reaffirmed its offer of a reward of $7 million (N2.5 billion) to anyone with credible information that can lead to the arrest of Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau. This was disclosed yesterday by Rewards for Justice Program (RJP), the counterterrorism rewards program of the US Department of State’s Diplomatic Security Service. “The United States Department of State offers a reward up to $7m for information leading to the arrest of the terrorist, Abubakar Shekau, leader of Boko Haram,” RJP tweeted on its twitter handle. On June 21, 2012, the country designated Shekau a “specially designated global terrorist” under executive order 13224 and placed the $7m bounty on him. Shekau took over the leadership of the insurgent group in 2010 following the killing of Mohammed Yusuf, its former leader. Despite claims that Shekau had been killed, the Boko Haram leader kept resurfacing in videos at every turn to shoot down those claims. In February 2018, the federal government also placed a N3million bounty on the insurgent leader. His whereabouts have remained unknown for almost a decade. Reacting to the $7million bounty placed on Shekau by the US, an elder in Borno State, Alhaji Ahmed Ashemi said most people in Borno believe that Shekau is not far from Sambisa forest, adding that if the US that was able to track and kill the Iranian General, it would not take that country anything to capture Shekau. Ashemi stated: “They have every means to capture Shekau. As far as people of Borno State are concerned, Shekau is in Sambisa forest.  And if America wants him, they have the means to track and identify him to either eliminate or capture him.’ ’’If they want to capture him, they know where he is to eliminate or kill him. They can send troops, just like they did to the Iranian Army General”. But former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Marshal Allamin M. Daggash, said he was not sure if Abubakar Shekau is still alive. Speaking exclusively with LEADERSHIP on the US $7m bounty on Information that could lead to the arrest of Abubakar Shekau, Daggash recalled that government has severally claimed that security forces have shot Shekau and in some instances killed him. ”It is an old story; it has appeared a number of times and nobody has come out tell the truth or the true situation.  Boko Haram has been there since 2012 and I was in Maiduguri when it started during Ali Modu Sheriff’s regime. He had a quarrel with the leader of that group and then they shot him in public”, he added. Also, a civil advocacy group, Concerned Professionals’ Congress (CPC) has described the United States’ announcement of a $7m bounty on Shekau as the final beginning of the end of Boko Haram’s acts of terrorism and insurgency in the North East. In a statement issued in Abuja last night by its Chief Media Strategist, Mr Emeka Nwankpa and its Northern Regional Rapporteur, Kasim Baba Kasim, CPC said that taking Shekau from the scene would result in the final crippling and decimation of the evil activities of the insurgents. It added that the fresh development indicated the final process of freeing the North East from the festering strangle-hold of insurgency and terrorism. Nwamkpa said, “We hereby congratulate our tireless military fighting forces led by the Chief of Defence, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin and the service chiefs and other security and intelligence agencies for all their gallantry and courageous efforts so far at holding on in the face the festering war against the insurgents. The situation could have been worse if our fighting forces had not held on. “The placement of ransom  was the pattern which the United States took in the past to hunt down and do justice to Osama bin Laden, Abubakar Al-Baghdadi and the rest of high-profile terrorists who are now history. We are glad that time will soon be up for Abubakar Shekau and his evil fellows”.