Contrary to the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) submission that the Integrated Payroll Personnel Information System (IPPIS) will centralise corruption in the country, the federal government has insisted that the system will help to check payroll fraud in the nation’s universities. Speaking during an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP in his office yesterday, permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Arc. Sonny Echono cited the recent report from the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, ICPC’s System Check  which uncovered  massive frauds in the tertiary education system adding that the fraud was what the IPPIS aims to checkmate. He revealed that the federal government loses billions of naira annually to tertiary institutions fraud, and added  that the government will no longer tolerate or accommodate some universities’ peculiarities that inflate personnel cost. “Basically, our position is very simple. IPPIS is  intended to check payroll fraud and there is no doubt that there has been a lot of that in our University system. Even Academic Staff  Union of Universities, ASUU  argued that some of the peculiarities of the Universities are not aggregately captured in IPPIS and we told them there are many organisations with so many peculiarities that have already been captured so they can make those accommodations,” he explained. Echono  stated that the federal government while negotiating with the Union, needed a time frame for ASUU to mobilise its members or present the University Transparency and Accountability Solution (UTAS), it claimed to have developed. He however added that 70 per cent of the university staff has already enrolled to the IPPIS, remaining 30 per cent, most of which comprise members of the union. He assured ASUU of federal government’s readiness to integrate UTAS payment system if it proved robust after passing through independent verification and  urged the union to give time frame to develop the software. Echono urged ASUU to continually support federal government in its fight against corruption, promoting accountability and transparency. Recall that the union had embarked on a warning strike and is yet to reach an agreement with the federal government. 