Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, yesterday, said the three people quarantined in the state over Coronavirus have tested negative to the deadly disease Abayomi had on Thursday said three people had been quarantined at its isolation centre in Yaba area of Lagos on suspicion of Coronavirus. One of the suspects quarantined was a Nigerian who travelled to France eight days ago and arrived the country four days ago. He was said to have developed headache and respiratory symptoms which led to his being quarantined. Two other travellers from England and China were also quarantined for coronavirus after they developed certain symptoms. According to Abayomi, their samples were collected for tests to ascertain if they had been affected by Coronavirus. However, the commissioner tweeted on Friday evening that the three suspects had tested negative to the deadly disease. He said they had been discharged after being certified free from Coronavirus. “Breaking! #COVID19Lagos, All the three #COVID19 suspected cases; travellers from France, England and China whose samples were collected yesterday for analysis have tested negative and they have been discharged,” he wrote on his twitter handle. Abayomi had said on Thursday that the index case, the Italian was responding to treatment at the isolation centre, adding his clinical situation was stable. He stated that the Italian was in high spirit but that he required psycho-social support as he was getting depressed for being in isolation alone, adding the patient was in touch with his family and friends in Italy. Abayomi explained that the level of viral load in his body had gone down, saying if that continued, in the next few days, he might be discharged if he tests negative to the disease. He said government would not just release him immediately he tests negative to the disease, but would still keep him and run a second test in few days to ascertain he was completely free of the disease before letting him go back to his country.  On the people who alighted from the Turkish Airline on arrival in Lagos, he said government had been able to trace 13 of the remaining 15 contacts, leaving only two that had not been reached, saying he would release their names to the media and declare them wanted if they could not be reached at the end of today. 