The shut national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the leadership crisis rocking the ruling party was reopened by the police yesterday. The party’ national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who is at the centre of the crisis, did not show up in his office. However, the APC acting national secretary, Chief Victor Gaidom, who was suspended by the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC)), was the first and only national officer to arrive at the secretariat about 9:30am and made straight for his office. Throughout the period that Giadom stayed at the secretariat, both Oshiomhole and his loyalists did not show up. Security remained tight around the secretariat as members of staff and visitors were screened and tagged before they were allowed to enter the building. This is as the party debunked media reports that the NWC had been factionalised. It insisted that as a political organisation, there were bound to be contestations of sorts and assured Nigerians that current leadership crisis would be resolved. This was contained in a statement signed by the APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu. He said: ”In a political organisation such as the APC, contestations are not unusual and are not necessarily intractable. The issues being alluded to in the media reports are matters before the courts and should be allowed to run their normal and legal course. The exaggerated story foreboding Armageddon is far-fetched. ”We call on members of the National Working Committee (NWC) and the party’s secretariat staff to resume at their offices and continue carrying out their scheduled roles and responsibilities without any fear. ”Finally, we thank the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, personnel of the Police, Department of State Services (DSS) and other security agencies for their professionalism in the process of maintaining the peace and preventing hoodlums from fomenting trouble at the APC national secretariat. Meanwhile, the chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Finance, Hon. James Faleke, has called for an end to the leadership crisis rocking the APC. Faleke, in a statement he issued yesterday in Abuja, urged those plotting to remove Oshiomhole as the APC national chairman, to rather focus on major issues facing the country. Also, the Forum of State Chairmen of the APC passed a vote of confidence on Oshiomhole. In a statement jointly issued by Borno APC state chairman, Ali Bukar-Dalori and his Enugu State counterpart, Dr Ben Nwoye, who are the chairman and secretary respectively of the forum, they noted that the forum voted to defend the constitution of the party at all times and in all places with regard to upholding its supremacy and to wade off all perceived threats by detractors and enemies of the party. According to the forum, it is on record that the party under the leadership of Oshiomhole won more elections in the country as exemplified in the 2019 general elections. 