The New Nigerian Foundation (NNF) has advocated for collective action from all stakeholders to tackle crude oil theft in the country. Speaking at a one-day dissemination workshop on Advocacy Against Crude Oil Theft in Lagos recently, the NNF Senior Programmes Manager, Chikodi Chiedo, canvassed the need for the adoption of multi-faceted approaches to curbing the menace as a single approach cannot solve the problem. She stressed that solutions have to cut across the value chain because of the multiple players involved, while recommending that there be proper disposal of confiscated petroleum products as the current disposal approach being applied by the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps further aggravates environmental degradation already caused during the processing of crude oil by artisanal refiners. She suggested that there may be a need to conduct research and technical evaluation of the composition of the products from artisanal refineries in order to determine what needs to be done to convert them to useful products. “The development of modular refineries and other technologies could help in meeting local market demands, eliminating illegal processing of crude oil and the attendant environmental damage.” she added. She called for the adoption of modern surveillance technology (drones, CCTV and oil finger printing) for the protection of pipelines as the failure of the government to put an end to crude oil theft is an attestation to the need for different approaches. According to her, some countries have successfully addressed similar challenges via the use of the above mentioned technologies, hence the relevant government agencies should look into what would work in the Nigerian context. Government, she advised, should support local refiners and establish modular refineries to meet local needs. Deputy director, Programmes, NNF, Layide Adesanya, said,  the event was tagged a dissemination workshop as it provided an avenue to share information on the projects embarked upon by the NNF on crude oil advocacy; discoveries and lessons learnt and the tools developed therein for journalists and the civil society.