A civil society organisation, Concerned Nigerians (otherwise known as The Movement) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to put a stop to what it called the unlawful and unconstitutional arrest and detention of the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II. Sanusi was deposed on Monday, March 9, 2020 and was consequently banished to Loko town in Nasarawa state, where he is expected to stay under a house arrest for at least three months. According to a letter addressed to President Buhari, dated Tuesday, March 10, 2020, signed by the group’s convener, Comrade Deji Adeyanju, and obtained by LEADERSHIP, it said as a civil rights movement, it was incumbent on it to inform Mr. President over the “unlawful and unconstitutional arrest and detention of deposed former Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi,” even as it called on him to use his good office to redress situation. “We are greatly concerned over his arbitrarily arrest and detention as this negates all constitutional provisions on the right to liberty, peaceful assembly and association, freedom of movement and freedom from discrimination. “The arrest and detention after dethronement carried out by the Kano State is illegal and unconstitutional and many citizens are already insinuating it has your consent and blessing as security agencies carried out the unlawful and unconstitutional act. It is important that you use your good office and position as Commander-in-Chief to put a stop to this,” it said. The Movement further outlined four grounds to back up its argument in favour of Sanusi, saying that the former Kano monarch has right to personal liberty guaranteed under section 35 of the 1999 constitution (as amended); right to peaceful assembly and association with other Nigerians guaranteed under section 40 of the constitution; right to freedom of movement guaranteed under section 41; and right to freedom from discrimination as guaranteed under section 42 of the same constitution. “Mr. President, you would recall that banishment and deportation of a deposed king has been declared severally by our courts to be unconstitutional. We refer you to the case of ‘Government of Kebbi State vs. HRH Mustapha Jokolo (2013)’ where the Court of Appeal condemned and declared that banishment and deportation of a deposed king is unconstitutional. “We believe that as in the case of Gwandu Emirate above, Mallam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi has been unduly and wrongfully denied his constitutional rights to liberty, to freely assemble and associate with other persons – including the people of Kano State and to move freely throughout Nigeria and to reside in any part thereof. “Finally, we call on you to use your good office to immediately direct security agencies to respect his rights and release him accordingly. The world will be keenly watching Nigeria on this,” the group added. The letter was copied to the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice; Inspector-General of Police; Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS); United States’ Ambassador to Nigeria; British High Commissioner to Nigeria; and the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA).