The Nigeria Meteorological Agency has approved its partnership with Tagwaye Foundation ahead of the forthcoming nationwide tour on drug and substance abuse; a major challenge to the growth and development of youths across Nigeria. According to StatePress, the partnership was to encourage strategic approaches that should be adopted in fighting the challenges faced by youths, especially in areas of battling drug and substance addiction. The partnership conference with NIMET on drug and substance abuse witnessed the attendance of the DG/CEO of Nigeria Meteorological Agency, Prof. Sani Mashi, the Founder of Tagwaye Charity Foundation, Prince UC Ingawa, Director Administration and Supply, Hajia Rabi M. Daku, Director Finance and Account, Alh. Sani Aliyu, Director Legal Services, Alh. Ahmed Abdul, Dr. Fatima Hussein, Theodore Ogbeyi and Rahimz Ismail. The campaign will also take place across the Six (6) geopolitical zones, selecting 2states each from the 6 geopolitical zones respectively. The campaign will commence with a walk and followed immediately by a symposium which will be held in each of the 12states before a grande-finale in Abuja with DG/CEO of Nigeria Meteorological Agency, Prof. Sani Mashi as the Special Guest of Honour to speak on Youths involvement in Drug and Substance abuse. In view of commitments and efforts made by national institutions towards the growth and development of youths in Nigeria, the Nigeria Meteorological Agency under the leadership of Prof. Sani Mashi have collaborated with Tagwaye Foundation in the campaign against drug abuse and its challenging impacts youths. NIMET has been recently engaging in prospective operations that upholds the efficiency and effective discharge of its mandate especially in precised areas of advising the Federal Government on all aspects of meteorology and also the phenomena, as well as how it affects the socio-economic development of the country. The partnership between Tagwaye Foundation and Nigeria Meteorological Agency will further enable extensive impacts in areas of combating the issues surrounding youth involvements in drug and substance abuse. The founder of Tagwaye Foundation, Prince UC has assured Nigerians that the vision of shortchanging the rate of drug abuse amongst youths will be fruition if more agencies adopts the steps taking by NIMET in supporting the Drug and Substance Abuse campaign. 