The acting provost, College of Education, Gindiri, Plateau State, Monsignor Prof. Cletus Tanimu Gotan, has appealed to Plateau State governor and visitor of the college, Rt. Hon.  Simon Lalong , to take proactive steps towards providing tight security in the college to curb incidences of rape and armed robbery in the Institution. According to him, this development seemed to be on the rise around the off-campus hostels which have high concentration of the students. The college was established in 1980 by the first civilian governor of the state, Late Chief Solomon Daushep Lar. Prof. Gotan said this  during the combined 28th-33rd convocation ceremony, where first civilian governor of Plateau State, Late Chief Solomon Daushep Lar, Rt. Hon. Ahmed Idris, Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives and three others were honoured . “Majority of our students are currently housed-off campus, a situation which makes it difficult to adequately secure them, especially the girls who are vulnerable to abuse of all sorts. In fact, cases of rapes, abuse and even deaths have been recorded. “To underscore our priority on security, I would also like to appeal to government to consider the sitting of a police out – post somewhere close to the college gate, to provide additional security to our students and to curb incidences of theft, rape and arm robbery, which seem to be on the rise around the off campus hostels which have high concentration of our students,” he said. He challenged the students to be good ambassadors of the college and be conscious of corruption, fraudsters and election riggers which Nigerians were not born with but learnt from different climes. Plateau State governor ,  Rt. Hon. Simon Lalong, directed the state commissioner of police  establish a police post in the ccollege to avert further rape and killing of students. Meanwhile member representing Langtang North/South in the House of Representatives, Hon. Beni Lar, the daughter of Late Chief Solomon Lar, who received the award on behalf of the family said there was no insecurity in Plateau when her father was governor in 1979. She noted that her late father who established the college  in 1980 when he was first civilian governor of the state also established100 secondary and primary schools in Plateau and Nasarawa States. Beni Lar said her late father believed in human development and said most Plateau leaders were beneficiaries of his scholarship. 