The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), has lauded Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, for ensuring improved security for citizens and businesses in the state. The association also lauded the state government for the recent inauguration of the State Ease of Doing Business Council, saying that the development is a sign of the government’s commitment to support business in the state. The Association’s National President, Engr. Mansur Ahmed, who spoke in Port Harcourt, the state capital,  at the 33rd national council meeting of the association, stated that the state government’s action is supportive of increased tempo in manufacturing production. Ahmed said: “First, I must commend the Executive Governor of our host state, His Excellency Chief (Barr) Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, for ensuring improved security for citizens and businesses. “Also, the recent inauguration of the Rivers State Ease of Doing Business Council by the Governor is a sign of the State Government’s commitment to support business in the state. This, we believe is supportive of increased tempo in manufacturing production. “In this regard, manufacturers in Rivers State will complement the good gesture of the government with increased investment expected to create more employment and deepen peaceful investment environment.” MAN’s National President further lauded the Rivers State government for the introduction of technical vocational training as part of youth skill empowerment programme. He said: “In addition to infrastructure upgrade in the state, MAN council has also noted and wishes to commend the government of Rivers State for the introduction of technical vocational training as part of youth skill empowerment programme.” Ahmed declared that manufacturers in the country are opposed to the new tariff of electricity under consideration by the Nigerian Electricity Regulation Commission (NERC), and noted inefficiencies of the power distribution companies as a major lacuna in the power sector. He said: “MAN noted Disco’s inefficiencies as a major lacuna in the power sector and hereby declares a total opposition to the new tariff of electricity under consideration by the Nigerian Electricity Regulation Commission. “From past experience, increase in tariff was never supported by increase in power supply.”