Vice presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 election, Mr Peter Obi has lamented Nigeria’s rising debt profile which he alleged is due to excessive and reckless borrowing. Obi who spoke at The Morning Show on Arise Television yesterday said the current debt position of the country called for a serious concern. The former Anambra State governor explained that financial borrowing was not entirely bad if the borrowed funds were put into productive use. He however said that borrowing without a business case or convincing business plans only meant mortgaging the future. “Everybody knows my stand on borrowing. I am against reckless borrowing and borrowing for consumption. If you must borrow, you must be able to convincingly prove to us the business case of the borrowing, otherwise you are mortgaging the future”, Obi said. He continued, “All the funds that have been borrowed for long in the country have not impacted positively on the growth of Nigeria’s economy, meaning that they were reckless and meant for consumption. Even using Kenya & Ghana in Africa for example, both are borrowing like us. “But see the difference, in 2010, Ghana’s GDP was $32 billion US Dollars, with pre capita of $1320, in 2019 is GDP had grown to $64.5 billion, with per capita of $2200. And for Kenya in 2010 had GDP of $42 Billion US Dollars, per capita of $912, in 2019 it was $87B US Dollars with per capita of $1700, while Nigeria had a per capita of $2320 in 2010 & in 2919 with all the borrowing it was 1920,” Obi noted. The former vice presidential candidate warned that excessive financial borrowing would hit the country hard if it was not curtailed. He added that Nigeria’s borrowed funds from 2008 till date stood at almost 100 billion US Dollars, which represented a quarter of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He said that it was not enough “to tell us that you will use the borrowed funds for this or that without presenting any business case for such funds”.  “No country borrows a quarter of its GDP without showing tangible investments or projects into which the borrowed funds were employed”, Obi said.  Obi further bemoaned the significant decrease in Nigeria’s Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) which he said was as a result of the high level of insecurity in the country.  He noted that the alarming level of insecurity in the country also discouraged local investors from investing into Nigeria’s economy which was negatively affecting the economy.