Consequent upon the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus infectious disease, the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has embarked on a number of far-reaching measures to guard against possible contraction of the deadly virus by corps members. Accordingly, the scheme says it had been in constant touch with the Nigeria Centre For Disease Control (NCDC) as well as the Federal Ministry of Health, which he noted had been playing very supportive role by lending technical support to the scheme. Imo State coordinator of the scheme, John Eloeboh,  disclosed this yesterday at the official opening of the orientation course for the 2020 Batch ‘A” corps members deployed to the state which involved a total of 1,751 corps members comprising 853 males and 898 females. According to Eloeboh, infrared thermometers as well as hand sanitizers, wash hand basins and soap had been provided in all the 37 NYSC secretariats and at strategic locations at orientation camps of the scheme nationwide. “Similarly, sensitization leaflets on Lassa fever and coronavirus have been shared to all the 2020 Batch “A” corps orientation course, so as to arm them with the requisite information on the virus and how to prevent infections,” he stated. Additionally, the NYSC coordinator disclosed that camp communities and other serving corps members are regularly sensitized on the best approach to adopt in order to prevent contraction of the viruses. Justice Paschal Nnadi, the chief judge of the state through chief magistrate, Sam Amadi administered the oat of allegiance on the corps members which took place at the state NYSC orientation camp Eziama Obaire Nkwerre council area. Governor Hope Uzodinma who declared the ceremony open through the permanent secretary Ministry of Youths and Social Development, Eugene Asonye Igwe noted that the NYSC had continued to remain a symbol of national unity and integration and a call for selfless service and patriotism. In Ekiti State the NYSC has intensified its awareness campaign on the deadly coronavirus, saying that necessary measures have been put in place to protect corps members deployed to the state against the disease. The state coordinator of the scheme, Mrs Emmanuella Okpongete who stated this yesterday, at NYSC permanent orientation camp in Ise-Orun/Emure Ekiti during the official opening and swearing-in ceremony of 2020 Batch ‘A’ Stream I corps members deployed to the state assured that, “there is no cause for alarm on the viral disease”. Okpongete added that scheme remains alive to its core responsibility of catering for the welfare of corps members and protecting its host communities.