The governor of Lagos state, Babajde Sanwo-Olu and the chairman of Heirs Holdings, Tony Elumelu has stressed the importance of public private partnership in the development and growth of the economy. Both of them spoke at a ceremony marking the refurbishment of Afriland Towers in Lagos. Sanwo-Olu while commending Afriland Properties Plc, which has Heirs Holdings as a lead investor said, “We are in government because we want the private sector to work, to thrive and to do well. “When the private sector does well, the government does well, when the government does well, then our people benefit. We tackle poverty, unemployment, and education – something I am absolutely committed to.” Impressed by the ambience and size of the development, Governor Sanwo-Olu commended Tony Elumelu, chairman of Heirs Holdings, a lead investor in Afriland Properties Plc. “My very good friend and brother, Tony Elumelu continues to make Nigeria proud. His example of making strategic investments in infrastructure, that creates public good, is one we should all applaud. It is an honour to be here this afternoon to see yet again, an underperforming asset turned into what we are witnessing here.” Sanwo-Olu praised Afriland Properties Plc for the successful renovation and inauguration of the world-class 8-floor office complex – Afriland Towers. As a publicly quoted company, Afriland is one of Nigeria’s leading institutional real estate owners and developers, with a portfolio in excess of N100 billion. The governor expressed his commitment to collaborating with Afriland for the development of the state. He said: “Afriland is making long term investments, that are greatly helping the revival of Central Business District of Lagos – I am delighted that Afriland is so clearly contributing to the redevelopment of Lagos. I want to thank the board and management of Afriland Properties for taking this bold initiative. You have put real money where your mouth is.” Tony Elumelu in his remarks commended the governor’s vision for a prosperous Lagos and emphasised the importance of private-public collaboration to catalyse development and employment in Lagos. He said: “We appreciate our governor for what he stands for. He wants a world-class and prosperous environment, something I share – investment in infrastructure, whether power, buildings or indeed human capital – is something I believe in fundamentally. I want to see a thriving and redeveloped Lagos Island. What we are doing here today is just the beginning of what we want to do at Falomo. We want to realise the potential of Lagos. Falomo is a unique property, a place where we want to showcase the potential of Lagos and what it can become. We are looking forward to engaging with Lagos State further, so we can all develop this historic and flagship location, which truly puts our city on the global map.” The Afriland Towers development is a key element in the redevelopment of the Central Business District of Lagos. At the event, the distinguished guests were taken on a tour of the 8-floor business complex, boasting an open plan office environment, with floor to ceiling windows, overlooking the bustling Marina district, whose contemporary décor is enhanced by energy-saving utilities, and spacious parking for the convenience of visitors.