ANKELI EMMANUEL in this report captures the moves by the Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal to firm up his political grip in the state and beyond. Few days ago, Sokoto State House of Assembly swore-in Hon Adamu Abubakar, the PDP candidate for Kebbe State Constituency who was elected during the March 14, 2020 bye-election held in Sokoto. Abubukar’s victory and swearing in as a lawmaker from that constituency reflects the evolving political dynamics playing out in the state. The Kebbe by-election was as a result of the sudden demise of Alhaji Isah Harisu (APC) member representing them in the House on December 30, 2019. Harisu slumped and died shortly after arriving the legislative complex for the days’ plenary. Prior to the development, APC led the House with a slim majority. As constitution demanded, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) fixed the by-election for March 14, 2020. While APC loyalists in the state and Kebbe constituency in particular were very optimistic that they will retain the seat, nothing prepared them for what befell their party at that polls. Barely days to the by-election, APC members were shocked to discover that the party’s candidate, Hon Abubakar Bello Umar had  withdrawn from the race. This scenario caused confusion within the party ranks. Explaining his decision, Umar said he decided to step aside for the PDP candidate for the overall interest of the people of his constituency and the state. He said, “Based on consultations with my parents, elders, colleagues, friends and well-wishers I hereby voluntarily withdraw from the race. In addition, my decision to withdraw is also in a bit to ensure political consensus and overall development of our area. I therefore, call on all my supporters to vote for the Abubakar Adamu Kebbe of the PDP. “As you are aware, it has been our tradition that wherever there is a political debacle, we in Kebbe rally round each other by setting aside our differences in the interest of the area. The development of our local government area has always been our priority”. PDP on the other hand, had been working round the clock to thwart the grip of APC in Kebbe and the state. For some observers of the political trend the decision of the APC candidate to withdraw from the race was influenced allegedly by the PDP. Few days after the Supreme Court affirmed his electoral victory in Abuja, Tambuwal stamped his feet on the ground and ensured that his party, the PDP yet again recorded another victory in the State House of Assembly and National Assembly seats rerun elections held in the state. While majority of the APC supporters in Kebbe became disenchanted with the development, a statement from the resident electoral commissioner of INEC, Abubakar Sadiq Umar gave them some sense of hope as he declared there is no provision for replacement or withdrawal of candidacy in a by-election. This was more so that the REC had assured a free, credible and acceptable election in the Kebbe by-election. According to the state REC, about six political parties are billed to participate in the House of Assembly by-election. But why is this constituency by-election significant? Recall that, it was same Tambuwal/Kebbe federal constituency that the state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal represented for almost three terms as lawmaker and later speaker in the 7th National Assembly. Electorates in Kebbe like others in the state voted massively for APC in the wake of 2015 general elections because of multiple factors, principal of which is the fact that, their son, then Speaker, Tambuwal was the governorship candidate of APC. At the time, the APC in the constituency also had the advantage of their political hero, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko as leader of the APC in Sokoto and above all, their preferred presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari was the flag bearer. The culmination of these factors made Kebbe a stronghold of the APC, a situation that repeated itself in 2019 despite Tambuwal’s defection to PDP. Aware of the fact that he needed to ensure a comfortable control over the state lawmakers having gone through tough litigations after winning the 2019 governorship elections, Tambuwal left no stone unturned to fortify his hold on the politics of his constituency and the state. This was more so that his toughest opponent, the candidate of the APC, Ahmed Aliyu, is from Kebbe. Tambuwal had narrowly defeated Aliyu with a small margin of lead in the Sokoto governorship rerun election. With these scenarios at play, observers of political scheming in the state were not surprise at the turn of events during the Kebbe by-election, considering that governor who is no longer a novice about the power-play in the state would want to stamp his political dominance. Tambuwal isn’t new to such schemings having overcome political battle and machinations to emerge Speaker of the 7th House of representative. As it stands, Tambuwal from all ramifications seems to have perfected the act of drawing people to himself at the slightest opportunity. He demonstrated this prowess when as Speaker the House under him was very peaceful, worked with unity of purpose despite varying political parties. The electoral victories of the PDP in the rerun and that of Kebbe by-election has raised the number of PDP lawmakers in the State Assembly to equate with that of the APC. Now both parties have 15 members each. The seemingly equilibrium of 15 members each has been achieved in the House might mean nothing to some. However, for the PDP, it goes to mean they now have a controlling power in the state legislative arena. As things stands now, the APC has the speaker, majority leader and the majority whip while the PDP has deputy speaker, minority leader and the minority whip. Much as the APC seems to be at advantage in the composition of principal officers’ of the House, checks by LEADERSHIP indicate that the governor has created a sedimentary layer of loyalty for himself and his government from the very onset. Towards achieving this agenda of possible equilibrium in the composition of Sokoto State  Assembly, Tambuwal and his party went ahead of APC’s anointed candidates to nominate and support APC lawmakers who emerged as leaders of the state parliament. It was further gathered that some of the lawmakers are believed to be APC by name, PDP by mind, actions and inactions. With this high wired political display, locals of the Seat of the Caliphate see Tambuwal and his party as being on top of their games. For critical observers, the 2019 governorship struggle in the Seat of the Caliphate was more of a battlefield for political godfathers between the ruling PDP and the opposition APC. The contest was beyond a mere political baptism of fire for incumbent governor Tambuwal versus his deputy, Ahmed Aliyu rather another chessboard for erstwhile political heavyweights to clash once again. This is even more so that, both Tambuwal and Aliyu are beneficiaries of Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko’s political benevolence to have emerged governor and deputy respectively in 2015. However, political observers are watching carefully ahead of 2023 to see whose force will prevail. As the forces stands now, it’s a culmination of APC force led by Wamakko and his millions of supporters across the state and that of Tambuwal. For some, their doubt still remains if Tambuwal will be able to play local politics considering the fact that his political orientation is more nationalistic inclined. Justifying their fears, some of these pundits said, Tambuwal’s emergence as chairman, PDP Governors Forum was a preparatory step for massive endorsement by the governors who are working towards bringing somebody from amongst them to become the presidential candidate come 2023. For those who are of this calculation, the plot was a well-known agreed standpoint by the NGF with some of them saying the chairman of the Forum should be the next presidential candidate while its deputy, Tambuwal stands as the vice presidential candidate. To further prove this speculation, a political analyst in Sokoto, Ibrahim Umar Gwadabawa said the recent degree of unity between governors on regional blocs shows that they nursing political motives. According to him, “The governors are together not minding political party. Not too long ago, there were speculations that some of the APC governors from North-western states are contemplating a possible defection to the PDP over the fact that they were not appreciated in the party.” Still, pundits aver that as Tambuwal continues to set his sights on having a firm grip of the politics in the state and beyond, his political opponents will also be gearing up to stop him. But time will unveil who wins.