With the coronavirus pandemic taking hyper toll on the global economy, health and social activities, terrified political, economic and religious leaders have taken drastic steps to curb the spread of the devastating virus. Across Europe, America, and the Middle East, major cities and towns as well as borders were shut down and restriction placed on intra-and inter-state movements, except for emergency cases. In the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and Iran closed mosques for prayers and released thousands of prisoners to avoid large gatherings and possible infection. The Council of Senior Scholars in Saudi Arabia resolved yesterday to suspend the daily congregational prayers and the weekly Friday prayer in all mosques across the kingdom. The Grand Mosque in Makkah and the Prophet’s Mosque in Madinah are, however, exempted from the ruling. Similar measures were taken in Europe, especially in Britain, where the Church of England and others reviewed their services. The Church of England suspended all services till further notice, saying it must become “a different sort of church in these coming months”. However, weddings and funerals may still go ahead, a spokesperson said. The Methodist Church and the chief rabbi also suspended services from yesterday.  Europe Sets For Full Border Closure The European Union (EU) proposed a 30-day shutdown of non-essential travel into the bloc from other countries – an urgent attempt to keep internal borders as open as possible to promote European solidarity. But on Tuesday, nations within the bloc continued to close themselves off from their neighbours. The European Commission, however, said that it is planning to ban all non-essential travel throughout Europe‘s Schengen free-travel zone as more countries close their borders to try to limit the spread of coronavirus. The commission’s president, Ursula von der Leyen, said she would ask leaders to implement the measures. „The less travel, the more we can contain the virus,“ she said. In France, tough new measures which restrict movement from the home have come into effect. The planned EU steps were alluded to in French President Emmanuel Macron‘s televised address to his nation. He said that „all trips between non-European countries and EU countries will be suspended.“ However, von der Leyen said that long-term residents, family members of EU nationals and diplomats would be exempted as well as cross-border and healthcare workers and people transporting goods. The measures would be in place for at least 30 days while the Schengen agreement allows people to move freely between EU countries without border checks. Citizens of non-Schengen EU member states will also be invited to apply the travel ban, including the UK. The comments came ahead a video-summit with EU leaders yesterday hosted by European Council chief, Charles Michel.  We are at war, says Macron At midday on Tuesday, France officially entered lockdown local time as part of measures announced by President Emmanuel Macron. All non-essential outings have been outlawed and attract a fine €135 ($148) for violators. Macron had a televised speech on Monday, promised to support French businesses by guaranteeing €300 billion worth of loans, as well as suspending rent and utility bills owed by small companies. “No French company, whatever its size, will be exposed to the risk of collapse,” he said. The French government will also support healthcare staff by paying for hotels, taxis and childcare during the coronavirus crisis, Macron said in a series of tweets following his speech. Macron also said hospital masks will be rationed for healthcare workers. In the United States (US) President Trump said that no national gathering should be more than 10 people. Commenting on the coronavirus pandemic, Trump said that “it’s bad” while President Emmanuel Macron of France told his country that “we are at war.” Trump said that the world was heading for an economic recession as financial markets tanked with economists losing sleep over the large scale impact of the virus spread on the aviation, maritime, tourism and manufacturing sectors. The Trump administration asked citizens to work from their homes if possible and avoid unnecessary travel. The government added that bars and restaurants should be avoided, or closed in areas where the virus was rapidly spreading. The guidelines apply for the next 15 days, but President Trump warned that the restrictions could grow more stringent and last well into summer. In fact, New York City mayor Bill de Blasio said that the economic fallout of the crisis could be at par with the Great Depression. More than seven million residents in the San Francisco Bay Area have been ordered to confine themselves to their homes, joining the ranks of Italy, Spain, France and China. New Jersey residents were also asked not to leave their homes from 8 p.m. till 5 a.m. A curfew is being considered for New York City. The measures upset social and work life as parents began intensive search for childcare centres after the shutdown of the New York City public school system. Bar and restaurant owners expressed worries on how they would survive what could be weeks or even months of being closed. The drastic actions in the US were prompted by a report by British researchers that 2.2 million people could die in the country in the absence of strong measures by the government and individuals to slow the spread of the virus. New York also cancelled elective surgeries and discharged patients from hospitals rapidly to free up about 7,000 patient beds, the mayor said.  Iran Frees 85,000 Inmates Iran also took strident steps yesterday to halt the disease spread as it released 85,000 inmates. A spokesperson for the country’s judiciary, Gholamhossein Esmaili, said that at least half of those released were classified as “security-related prisoners.” The move comes days after the United Nations special rapporteur on human rights in the country requested the government – at least temporarily – free all political prisoners from the deeply infested prisons. Iran has confirmed 1,178 new cases of coronavirus, the biggest increase the country has seen over a 24-hour period. The total number of cases is now 16,169, health ministry spokesman Kianush Jahanpour said on state TV yesterday. He announced 135 new coronavirus-related deaths, bringing the country‘s total death toll to 988.  State Of Virus Across Countries In spite of the drastic measures taken by various governments, the rate of infection is still on the increase, rising above 182,000 worldwide. Agency reports indicated that the novel coronavirus had infected more than 182,400 people and killed over 7,100 worldwide. Citing Johns Hopkins University’s report, major global news organisations said that the number of deaths outside China had surpassed those inside.  They said that coronavirus cases in Spain had risen to 11,178 with 491 deaths. A health ministry official said yesterday that In the last 24 hours 1,987 new cases had been diagnosed. According to Fernando Simón, director of the Spanish Coordinating Centre for Health Alerts and Emergencies, the largest share of cases continues to be in the Spanish capital. In Italy, reports indicated that the scale of the epidemic was evident in the bodies left behind. The country has suffered more than 2,100 deaths, and hospitals and morgues are inundated. The number of people who have tested positive in the United Kingdom (UK) for coronavirus has risen 1,950, health officials said. The Department of Health and Social Care said that a total of 1,543 had been diagnosed with the virus since the outbreak began, with 55 patients having died after testing positive. As of 9am on Monday, 407 more people had tested positive for the virus, the biggest daily increase in cases recorded to date. Some 50,442 coronavirus tests have now been carried out in the UK, 48,492 of which came back negative. Consequently, Prime Minister Boris Johnson directed „drastic action“ to tackle the country’s „fast growth“ of coronavirus.  “Without drastic action, cases could double every five or six days,” Johnson warned at a press conference inside Downing Street. Health officials in São Paulo, Brazil, yesterday, confirmed the country’s first death from the new coronavirus. The victim, whose identity has not been disclosed, had been hospitalized in São Paulo. On Monday, the state of São Paulo had 152 confirmed cases of COVID-19 while suspected cases totalled 1,777.  Businesses Tumbling Across Continents The global oil industry faced declining fortunes as the price of oil fell below $30 a barrel, its lowest level in four years. On Wall Street, brokers and analysts acted as if an economic collapse were inevitable, despite the Federal Reserve’s emergency moves on Sunday night to stoke economic growth through an aggressive bond-buying programme. The S&P 500 fell nearly 12 per cent on Monday as global oil prices slid below $30 a barrel. “We’re calling the recession,” chief economist at Oxford Economics, Gregory Daco, said, adding that “we have the three elements to make that call — a profound, pervasive and persistent contraction in economic activity.” Business groups, local and state leaders and a growing chorus of lawmakers and economists appealed to the federal government to spend trillions of dollars to pay workers to stay at home and funnel money to companies struggling with an abrupt end to consumer activity.  Volkswagen To Halt Production German car maker Volkswagen (VW) plans to suspend production due to the coronavirus outbreak. The works’ council in Wolfsburg on Tuesday said that the last shift would run this Friday at the vast majority of locations. In the past few days VW confirmed there have been cases of coronavirus at its facilities. IKEA To Shut Stores In Germany Major furniture dealer, IKEA, has closed 53 of its stores in Germany to protect employees and inhibit the spread of coronavirus, the company confirmed in a statement sent to Cable News Network (CNN). ‘’Current developments worldwide show that the situation can change on a daily basis. In this challenging situation, it is our aim to always act calmly and prudently and to live up to our responsibility as a large retailer. For this reason, we are closing all 53 furniture stores in Germany,“ the statement reads.  Stock Markets Continue To Slide Meanwhile, European shares have crashed further as fears over the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic continue to grip the world‘s financial markets. London‘s The Financial Times Stock Exchange (FTSE) 100 had opened higher on Tuesday, but this ran out of steam and the index was down by about one per cent during morning trade.  Other major European markets showed similar falls. Chancellor Rishi Sunak is expected to announce more financial help later for UK firms affected by the outbreak. Chris Beauchamp, chief market analyst at IG, said: „The government response from around the globe appears to be ramping up once again, as the chancellor prepares to unveil more measures to help support businesses. „Whatever is announced, the measures will be expensive, but if they can form a credible package and one co-ordinated with other governments, then markets may try to find a positive, although it may take time.“ Asian shares also experienced volatile trading on Tuesday with markets in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Shanghai swinging between losses and gains. US stock markets had slumped on Monday, with the Dow Jones losing close to 13 per cent and the S&P 500 falling almost 12 per cent, marking the biggest one-day falls for both indexes since „Black Monday“ in 1987. That followed the US Federal Reserve making another emergency rate cut on Sunday, prompting central banks around the world to ease policy in the biggest co-ordinated response since the global financial crisis more than a decade ago. Investors are now concerned that the world‘s central banks may have used most of their ammunition to fight the economic impact of the coronavirus outbreak.  Euro 2020 Postponed On the sporting world, Euro 2020 has been postponed till 2021 because of the coronavirus pandemic, European football‘s governing body, UEFA said. During an emergency video conference involving major stakeholders, yesterday, explained that the tournament, due to take place from 12 June-12 July this year at 12 venues across Europe, would now run from 11 June to 11 July next year. The postponement provides a chance for European leagues that have been suspended to now be completed. UEFA’s Nations League and the European Under-21 Championships are also scheduled to take place next summer. Elsewhere, the South American Football Confederation (Conmebol) disclosed that this year‘s Copa America, due to take place from 12 June to 12 July, had been postponed until 2021. The Polish football association (PZPN) says play-offs for the European Championships and friendly international matches set for March will be postponed till June.  US Volunteers Test First Vaccine In another development, the first human trial of a vaccine to protect against pandemic coronavirus has started in the US. Four patients received the jab at the Kaiser Permanente research facility in Seattle, Washington, the Associated Press news agency said. The vaccine cannot cause COVID-19 but contains a harmless genetic code copied from the virus that causes the disease. Experts said that it would still take many months to know if this vaccine, or others also in research, would work. The first person to get the jab on Monday was a 43-year-old mother-of-two from Seattle. „This is an amazing opportunity for me to do something,“ Jennifer Haller told AP.  Nigeria records 3rd case, cancels National Sports Festival Meanwhile, the federal government has confirmed another case of coronavirus in Lagos, making the total of confirmed cases in Nigeria three. The minister of health, Dr. Osagie Enahire, who disclosed this yesterday, at a press conference on COVID-19 update in Abuja, said that the new case is a Nigerian national in her 30s, who returned from a short visit to UK on March 13, 2020. Enahire said that the patient, upon her arrival, went into a 14 day self-isolation, and voluntarily called the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) toll-free call line, to report her condition, the moment she developed symptoms of fever and cough on March 16. „Officials from the Lagos State Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) were immediately dispatched to her home to collect samples, which upon testing came out positive for the coronavirus. „The lady is currently at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) in Yaba, where she has remained clinically stable and responding to intensive contact tracing has begun, to help identify all persons who the patient has been in contact with since her return. „We expect the number to be small, because of her sensible decision to go into self-isolation from the time of her arrival. We commend her for following the recommended guidelines to the letter,” he said. On vulnerability, the minister said „It is important to note that many people who are infected with coronavirus will experience only mild symptoms and recover without incident. Of great concern are those with existing underlying medical conditions and senior citizens, who are known to be more vulnerable. We strongly advise these citizens to stay more at home.“ Also yesterday, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the postponement of the National Sports Festival slated for Edo State. The minister of sports, Sunday Dare, disclosed this to State House correspondents yesterday after meeting with President Buhari alongside the minister of state for health, Adeleke Mamora, at the presidential villa. According to him, the decision was taken as a precautionary measure against COVID-19, saying that a new date for the festival would be communicated soon. Dare said: “Since the outbreak of COVID-19, the Ministry of Youths and Sports Development because of the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival, has been in close touch and consultation with the ministry of health – particularly with both the minister of health and the minister of state, health. “We’ve also being in consultation with the governor and deputy governor of Edo State, the Local Organising Committee (LOC), and the MOC but we have had the ministry of health take the lead. Based on daily review on development, we got assurances that we could go ahead. “But because we are dealing with a dynamic situation, this morning, we had a meeting at the ministry of health in the office of the minister of health with the minister of state for health present, myself, the permanent secretary and the director-general of NCDC. “Shortly after the meeting which lasted for about 45 minutes, we proceeded to the presidency to brief Mr President. After briefing Mr President, Mr Presdent took the initiative and gave the directive that the National Sports Festival, christened ‘Edo 2020’ should be postponed as a precautionary measure against the press of COVID-19. A new date will be communicated late based on development around COVID-19.  Indian Contract Staff Quarantined In Lagos In another development, the management of Dangote Industries Limited has clarified report of a suspected case of its personnel currently kept in isolation at the Mainland hospital, Yaba, Lagos. The company said yesterday that “we will like to state that an Indian national who is a staff of Onshore Construction Company – a mechanical, electrical and instrumentation contracting firm that specialises in fertiliser construction reported at the site clinic complaining of high temperature and fever. “His complaint triggered our protocols which necessitated further screening and isolation immediately. Mr. Akhil Kunyil, of the Health and Safety Environment of the Onshore Company reported the development to the management following which local authorities were contacted. The patient was immediately conveyed to the Lagos Mainland Hospital Centre, where he is currently being isolated and undergoing tests.  FG bars officials from foreign trips Relatedly, the federal government has banned foreign travels  by ministries, departments and agencies till further notice. The secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, announced this at the end of the inaugural meeting of the Presidential Task Force for the Control of Coronavirus (COVID-19). He also advised the general public to cancel all travels abroad especially to all high risk countries Mustapha said: “After due consideration and the trend of the novel coronavirus disease – COVID-19 and the subsequent declaration as pandemic by the World Health Organisation, the committee has decided that we upscale our healthy emergency system to the highest level and put in measures to curb further spread of the disease. “So far we have three cases, two have tested positive, one negative. We will want to ensure that this does not go beyond this minor figure for now. “On the part of government we have decided that it has become necessary to advise all public officials in the ministries, department and agencies and the parastatals that government has banned all forms of travel out of the country for whatever reasons, bilateral, multilateral, conferences, seminars, workshops, negotiations, presentations and any form of other ceremonies. “This ban will remain in place till further notice and until the situation of the coronavirus abets. By this notice, any prior approval to travel abroad for official assignments during this period is accordingly rescinded. “With regards to the general public, we want to advise strongly that citizens in their own interest should cancel or postpone all non-essential travel abroad including business and vacation trips. This is especially for travels to countries known to be seriously affected by COVID-19. “Such high risk countries are China, Iran, South Korea, Germany, Italy, USA, UK, Switzerland, Norway, Netherlands, Spain, France and Japan,” he said. The SGF also urged anyone returning from any country to strictly self-isolate for 14 days in their homes. Mustapha further explained that “thirdly, all people returning from countries with high community transmission rate especially countries that have recorded a 1000 cumulative cases and above, will be actively followed up for 14 days by the health authorities. “We want to put on notice that the Nigerian government supports the measures taken by the government of other countries particularly high burden countries who have urged their residence to stay home and avoid nonessential travels particularly and inclusive to Nigeria. The SGF urged Nigerians to continue to maintain high level of sanitation and hygiene and respiratory etiquette which has been repeatedly advised.  High Commission In London Suspends Passport Issuance In London, Nigeria’s High Commission in London has suspended the issuance of passports till further notice in response to the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The commission’s counsellor/head of chancery, Rose Yakowa-Okoh, said that as from today, the issuance of passports will be suspended in line with recommendations from the UK government. She added that anyone interested in getting ETC documents, however, should contact the mission via either email or telephone. “However, those who urgently need to travel and require Emergency Travel Certificates should contact the following numbers or email address “immigrationattache@nigeriahc.org.uk, welfareeducation@nigeriahc.org.uk or chancery@nigeriahc.otg.uk. Alternatively, they can ring the immigration section on 07495 061238 or 07535 322077, the consular section on 07930 442416 or the head of chancery on 07495 061754.”  Nigeria Envisaged Fallen Oil Prices – PMB Nigeria has foreseen the economic problems that may come in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, and will explore all alternatives to protect her people, President Muhammadu Buhari has said. The president, according to a statement by his special adviser media, Femi Adesina, spoke Tuesday at State House, Abuja, during a briefing session by the Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC) led by Prof. Doyin Salami. With oil prices oscillating between $29 and $30 in recent times, as opposed to the $57 benchmark for the2020 Budget, President Buhari said many variables, including production cost and political impact, determine oil prices, “and we will see how to survive fallen prices, as we already envisaged the problem.” He explained that protecting the people from vagaries of international economic fortunes, and associated fallen prices of oil, is a priority of government, “and we will do our best to do so.” Senate insists on travel ban The Nigerian Senate has called for travel ban on high risk countries with Coronavirus. Lawmakers at the Senate wants the federal government to consider banning non-Nigerian travellers from countries with a high risk of coronavirus (COVID-19). The Senate  made the request after adopting a point of order raised at Tuesday’s plenary session by the  Senator  representing Kwara Central, Ibrahim Oloriegbe. Oloriegbe who is the chairman, Senate Committee on Health,  said in addition to the ban, other prevention and control practices, Nigeria should as well restrict travels to worst-hit countries to curb the spread of the virus. “If it is possible, people should not travel to countries with high risk of the cases especially in Europe where many countries are affected, unless such trips are very important,” he said. “Government should also consider disallowing non-Nigerians from countries of high risk from entering the country. Government should also increase capacity about checking airports.” He said Nigeria currently has only five centres where testing can be done, and that “government has to step up the testing capacity, and provide support for state governments”. Senate President Ahmad Lawan agreeing with the motion noted that emphasis should be placed on the isolation and testing centres. “We are very lucky and fortunate, but we shouldn’t push our luck too far. We should be very observant of all those regulations the technical experts give us,” he said.  “There is need for federal government to do a little more, especially in the area of testing centres. The entire north and south-east have no testing centres and it shouldn’t be so.