The Benue State government and a group, Tiv Youth Advancement Vanguard (TYAV), yesterday traded words over alleged plots by the former to ensure that an ex-governor of the state and serving senator, Gabriel Suswam, is sent to jail. The group led by Barr. Tyohemba Denen alleged that Governor Samuel Ortom’s posturing was not in the interest of the state but his personal ambition which could deprive Benue North East senatorial zone of representation in the Senate. Denen alleged that Ortom was plotting to imprison Suswam over his ambition to retain the structure of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state ahead of the 2023 general elections. In a statement he issued, Denen said:  “TYAV as a group has viewed with displeasure a situation where Ortom is plotting to imprison his predecessor, Sen. Gabriel Suswam over his ambition to retain the structure of the ruling PDP in the state ahead of 2023 general elections.” In a swift reaction, the chief press secretary to the governor, Terver Akase, who described the group as being sponsored by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to cause disaffection in the PDP, said their plan would not work, adding Ortom had no hand in the petition against Suswam at the Federal High Court, Abuja “The APC target is to cause chaos, disharmony hatred and crises in the PDP camp which has Governor Ortom as the party’s leader, Senators Suswam, Oker Jev, Abba Moro among many others at the House of Representatives as well as other leaders of the party who are working together in the interest of the state,” he said. In his reaction, Suswam described the group as faceless and described the statement that “Ortom is inciting the anti-graft agencies to ensure that I go to prison ahead of the 2023 elections as mischievous.” Suswam said: “It is pertinent to state that the unity which currently exists between Governor Ortom and me is in the interest of Benue people. No number of shenanigans from anyone or group can change that fact. I advise those fanning the embers of discord to stop wasting their time.” The statement, however, insisted: “Governor Ortom is lobbying the graft agencies seriously to ensure that Suswam goes to prison over alleged cases of corruption against him while he served as governor of the state for eight years.” It recalled that Ortom was denied the PDP primary ticket for the 2015 general election; and he later defected to the APC, won the election and returned to the PDP before the end of his first term in office. 