The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), has said that the current level of power situation in the country as well as the inadequate fibre cables may impact negatively on the commercialisation of the fifth generation network, 5G These are the key challenges identified by experts from the commission at the Social Media Week, Lagos (SMWL) on Thursday, during the NCC session themed: Fifth Network Deployment: Social Economic Benefits and Challenges. The experts from the commission agreed that the power infrastructure gaps that currently exist in the country does not encourage that level of technology and prays things improve before telecom operators in Nigeria are ready for massive rollout of the business. Also stated that the inadequacy of fibre infrastructure, is another major challenge to the massive deployment of 5G. Speaking on 5G network deployment, the director, Technical Standard and Network Integrity, NCC, Bako Wakil, said 5G which is also known as IMT 2020 is a clear departure from other network generations like 3G and 4G because it was designed with huge capability and requirements for today and future need. According to him, “having carried out a successful trial in the country, the next is commercialisation, but we have identified the erratic power situation and low fibre infrastructure as major limitations to deployment on a large scale in Nigeria. “While the NCC can comfortably address the fibre infrastructure gap, power generation and distribution is not within our purview, but we are working with the relevant agencies to see what can be done.” Also speaking at the panel moderated by the head of Online and Special Publication, NCC, Dr Niyi Ibietan, the assistant director, Spectrum Administration, NCC, Kenneth Uzoekwe, said that the 5G’s importance and beauty also lie in the availability of spectrum. Adding that a lots of spectrums have been identified by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) to aid the smooth deployment of 5G. He said about six spectrums at higher bands have been marked down; “they are available, but yet to be assigned.” Uzoekwe, who represented the director of spectrum Administration, NCC, Austin Nwaulune, said that whenever Nigeria is ready for commercial deployment of 5G network, some re-assignment of spectrums to fast track deployment will be made. The experts said, “If broadband is successfully deployed in Nigeria, it will improve broadband availability, leading to faster downloading and uploading of contents; encourage financial inclusion, faster health care service delivery, smarter transport system and appliances.” 