The Nigeria Copyright Commission (NCC) has clamped down on three broadcast facilities in Aba and Umuahia, the capital city of Abia State, declaring them illegal. Speaking to newsmen after the execise in Umuahia, the director-general of the NCC, Mr John Asein said the private-owned facilities contravened the provisions of the country’s Copyright Act. According to him, the operations were carried out in conjunction with officers of the Department of State Service (DSS) following months of surveillance and intelligence gathering. Asein, who said the operations were carried out simultaneously by three separate teams, added that the facilities are owned by Popular Broadcasting Service (PBS) and Modern Communication Limited (MCL). Expressing the NCC’s gratitude to the director-general of the DSS for their operational and logistic support during the operations, the DG added that five persons were arrested at the facilities. His words, “The joint operation is a demonstration of a common objective by relevant agencies to ensure that the laudable economic policies being introduced by government are not thwarted by the illegal activities of unscrupulous persons.” Asein said, “Equipment found on the premises of the illegal broadcasters included those for the retransmission of Star Times, MCN contents and broadcasting decoders for Ben Sports, Metro Digital, Aljazera, Canal Plus and others.” According to him, the on-going efforts of the federal government to reposition the broadcast industry and to ensure a safe and investment friendly legal framework calls for a more proactive copyright enforcement strategy. He therefore assured investors in the creative sector, particularly the broadcast industry that the NCC will continue to ensure that they enjoy safe corridors to guarantee returns on their investment. He hinted that investigation into the activities of the suspects and other copyright infractions will commence soon just as other criminal activities would be reported to the relevant agencies for further action. The NCC boss, therefore appealed to the public to desist from patronising copyright pirates and urged them to report suspected copyright violations to the NCC for immediate intervention. Asein added that one of the arrested operators, who claimed that they once had broadcast licence from the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), however confessed that the licence had since lapsed. LEADERSHIP’s visit to one of the facilities which is located in the outskirts of the capital to speak to any of the staff could not yield any positive result as the gate was securely locked.