Energy stakeholders have said that the steps being taken by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and the National Economic Council (NEC) towards addressing the challenges militating against reliable electricity supply in the country could help in repositioning the sector. Amidst sustained outrage over estimated billing and the recent electricity tariff review which, for customers, is to come into effect from 1st April, 2020, NERC, recently came up with a capping policy, pegging Residential 2 (R2) customers’ bill at an average of N1, 800 monthly after 30th April for any ones who may not have been metered through the ongoing Meter Assets Provider (MAP) scheme by then. And coming on the heels of that in a space of one week, NEC rose from its monthly meeting and ordered a comprehensive audit of the DisCos’ account to ascertain their level of investments in the companies since take over at privatisation. Speaking to LEADERSHIP, a stakeholder in the energy sector, Sam Aiboni said the steps being taken by the federal government and NERC towards making the industry perform optimally are in order, adding that it would go a long way towards strengthening the sector. “What is happening now is the best as it will end up strengthening the sector thereafter. It is good that the federal government and NERC are now waking up to their responsibilities concerning the sector. “Those who can’t meet up with the demand of the sector should be sanctioned accordingly for discipline to thrive, or be shown the way out of the system,” he said. Revealing his thought to LEADERSHIP also, the Managing Director of New Hampshire Capital Ltd, an energy oriented company, Mr Odion Omonfoman admitted that the federal government and NERC are actually doing what is constitutionally required of them by trying to regulate electricity pricing and assess the DisCos commitment. He however opined that what should have been the primary concern of both government and the customers is how to improve service delivery, adding “fixing electricity price does not guarantee 24 hour electricity.” Mr Omonfoman who confessed that the capping of electricity price and checking the DisCos performance will go a long way towards making them to meter  customers speedily and sit up, urged government to adopt a holistic approach to the issue to ensure that it goes beyond that level to service delivery. “We should be more concerned with service delivery. How many hours of uninterrupted supply I am I sure of if I pay N100? “We should look at the issue holistically across the value chain. If the DisCos say they can guarantee 12 hours of light, they must have gotten the assurance that the transmission company of Nigeria (TCN) will answer them, TCN, likewise must have gotten assurance from the generating companies (GenCos). “You may be assured of 12 hours of supply, and tomorrow the system collapses, what do you do?” he said.