Oyo State government has disbursed N75,775,782.75m to 18 communities and two vulnerable groups under its World Bank assisted programme. The sum, which was disbursed through the Oyo State Community and Social Development Agency (OYCSDA) would be spent on education, water, transportation, socio-economic, environment and health sectors in each community. This was disclosed by the Chairman, Oyo State Community and Social Development Agency (OYCSDA), Dr. Idowu Oyeleke during a day training for Community Project Management Committee (CPMC) and presentation of cheques to various communities held at Ibadan Business School, Ibadan. While presenting cheques to the beneficiaries, Oyeleke pointed out that the community and Social Development Project is one of the areas of collaboration between the State Government and World Bank which is meant to reduce poverty through community participation in service delivery. He also pledged the commitment of Engr. Seyi Makinde led administration towards the implementation of life-impacting programmes in line with the cardinal objectives of good governance, adding that the gesture was just a tip 0f the iceberg, as more benefits are in the offing. Oyeleke also added that all the micro-projects are expected to be completed within two months, amidst adequate monitoring and maintenance by the stakeholders when completed. While delivering the guiding principles and procedures on project implementation, the General Manager of OYCSDA, Mr. Christopher Babatunde described Community Development Plans (CDP) as a comprehensive community plan for development activities within communities which contains a basket of micro-projects. He, therefore, enjoined CPMC members of each community to work as a team during project implementation in their communities which requires the commitment of all stakeholders. Participants at the training were taken through project implementation procedures to ensure efficiency and effectiveness in project delivery. In their responses, the benefiting communities were full of appreciation to the present administration in the state for bringing development to their doorsteps through the agency, promising to utilize the funds judiciously. 