President Muhammadu Buhari hinted yesterday that law enforcement agencies have recovered over N3.7billion and numerous assets worth billions of naira from contractors and former directors of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The presiden disclosed this at the inauguration of NDDC advisory committee comprising the governors of the Niger Delta region and the ministers of Niger Delta Affairs and Environment. ‘‘To date, the EFCC and other agencies of Government have recovered over N3.7billion in cash as well as various assets worth billions of Naira from some contractors and former Directors of the Commission. Furthermore, I am told that Government agencies have placed liens on over N6 billion of assets which are being investigated’’, a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina quoted the president as saying. The president told the committee that these abuses of the past clearly showed the need for strict and diligent oversight going forward. He  charged them to discharge the new assignment diligently and effectively, working closely with the relevant ministries, adding that he was looking forward to seeing positive changes in the affairs of the commission as well as on the ground in the Niger Delta region. President Buhari recalled that in 2016, his administration launched the “New Vision for the Niger Delta (NEVIND)” aimed at bringing sustainable peace, security, infrastructure and human capital development to the region. He said the medium to achieve the noble objective was through the ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, NDDC and the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP). The president, however, expressed regret that in the past the institutions named above were unable to deliver their mandates due to mismanagement. Buhari continued: ‘‘As a result, the people of the Niger Delta were left with abandoned infrastructural projects and substandard social programmes which were designed to improve their living conditions. ‘‘It is to reverse this trend that I approved, in February 2020, the constitution of a 10-Man Presidential Monitoring Committee (PMC) as provided for in Section 21 of the NDDC Establishment Act.’’ He noted that the PMC, which will be chaired by the minister of Niger Delta Affairs and its members drawn from various MDAs, will focus on monitoring the operations and activities of the commission, and will be reporting to him. The president said the inauguration of the NDDC Advisory Committee was in line with the provisions of Section 11 (I) of the NDDC Establishment Act, explaining that the Committee is charged with the responsibility of advising the Board and monitoring its activities. Justifying the decision to inaugurate the committee ahead of the reconstitution of the NDDC Board, President Buhari said, ‘‘This is to enable us develop insights into the affairs of the Commission which will properly guide the Board when reconstituted once the Forensic Audit exercise on the Commission is concluded. ‘‘You may recall that the Federal Executive Council, on 5th of February, 2020 approved the appointment of the Lead Forensic Auditors. I am told they are concluding their pre-engagement activities and should be ready to commence work soon’’. Speaking on behalf of the members of the Advisory Committee, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State thanked the President for inaugurating the committee and granting the request of the governors, from the region, for a forensic audit of the NDDC. The Governor expressed hope that the result from the forensic audit would help streamline activities of the NDDC with a view to putting it on course to deliver on its mandate to the people. Underscoring the roles of the advisory committee, the Delta  State governor noted that for sustainable development of the region, the NDDC must perform its duties in close collaboration with the States to avoid duplication of projects. He said, ‘‘We do not want to criticise what has happened in the NDDC for quite some time, but the fact is that the cooperation between the states and the NDDC has not been strengthened overtime and we have various cases of duplication of projects that are not properly planned. ‘‘But I believe that with the inauguration of this body we will be able to sit down, meet together, work in collaboration and supportively to bring greater developments to our people’’. On the forensic audit, the Niger Delta minister, Godswill Akpabio, disclosed that 55 companies were now going through evaluations and that majority of them are international firms. He said the lead consultant for the forensic audit has divided the region into 16 lots based on the volume work. He said the lot assigned to the states in Niger Delta will be involved in project auditing and to show if they have had value for money in terms of the quality of project done. Akpabio said they will also do personnel auditing and recommend governance structure for the region in other to check future excesses. He stated: “I want to commend President Buhari’s administration for the boldness to carry out this audit because this is the first time any president has ever thought of looking at what accrued to the commission and how the money were being utilized. “It has always been like rumour that the place was like an ATM and a cesspool of corruption but this is the first time we are availing the veil of incorporation to know those who actually own those companies and those who actually contributed to the wastage that we have seen over the years. “The EFCC and other agencies have seized about seven houses including a hotel and the owners have willingly handed over, admitting that the proceeds where illicit funds from NDDC and cash running into billions have also been recovered and we have placed lien on N76 billion worth of certain properties  and cash in various banks. “Even though the process is not yet out in the public, a lot of process is being made and I am quite certain that at the end of the exercise everybody will be happy. “We are also going to have the fourth national council of stakeholders of the Niger Delta region to discuss the way forward for the region including proper briefing in writing of this forensic audit and what will happen to the region thereafter. The exercise will commence from March 29th and will last all the way for 4th of April in Port Harcourt and the governors have also agreed to use one of those days to have another major meeting of the advisory committee.” PMB Writes Senate, Seeks Exemption Of Animal Feeds From Tax Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday wrote to the Senate seeking for exemption of animal feeds from tax. According to Buhari, the exemption of “Animal Feeds” from taxable food items will create incentives for small businesses involved in livestock, fishing and primary crop production in Nigeria. The request was part of the Senate executive bill from Buhari which seeks to amend the Finance Act 2019 recently passed by the National Assembly. The Act which was passed by the Senate on November 21, 2019, received presidential assent on January 13, 2020. The executive bill, accompanied with a formal letter dated March 6, 2020, was read during plenary by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan. The president, in his letter, explained that the request for amendment is aimed at clarifying the administrative date for the increase in Value Added Tax from 5 percent to 7.5 percent, effective from February 1, 2020. President Buhari also said he was seeking the exemption of “Animal Feeds” from taxable food items so as to create incentives for small businesses involved in livestock, fishing and primary crop production in Nigeria. The letter reads: “Pursuant to Sections 58 and 59 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), I formally write to request that the Finance Act, 2019 (Amendment) bill, be considered by the Senate for passage into law. “This bill seeks to amend the Finance Act, 2019, as recently passed by the National Assembly, by clarifying: that the administrative effective date for the increase in Value Added Tax from 5 percent to 7.5 percent is the 1st of February, 2020. “That ‘Animal Feeds’ are included in the list of Basic food items that are exempt from Value Added Tax; and Aspects of the Tax holiday incentive for agriculture, by targeting this incentive to Small and Medium sized companies that invest in primary crop, livestock, forestry and fishing agricultural production. “This incentive is also to be administered by the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission pursuant to the Industrial Development (Income Tax Relief) Act.”