The Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) has called on Nigerians to reject the Senate bill on the Armed Forces Service Commission because “it is a taboo.” At a news conference in Abuja, yesterday, CNM described the bill as unconstitutional, saying the National Assembly should not have proposed such bill. Sponsored by the lawmaker representing Abia-South Senatorial District, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, the bill will give the Senate authority to appoint Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, Director of Military Intelligence and heads of other arm-bearing security agencies. The bill will also provide for the establishment of Armed Forces Service Commission, which shall have the power and authority pursuant to section 219 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). Speaking on behalf of the group, National President, Mr. Sabo Ode, argued that Abaribe and his cohorts would have to amend the constitution for this to happen. The coalition described the bill as “repugnant to the principles of democracy; a satanic wish to curtail the powers of Mr. President on security matters, and a despicable plot to hamstrung the Presidency.” The coalition, however, called on Nigerians to rise and defend their democracy and not allow selfish politicians manipulate the constitution in their favour. ‘’We expect that Nigeria’s parliamentarians should lead the trajectory of redeeming our checkered country from the tottering tenterhooks of development deficiency, deprivation of the citizenry, mass poverty, hunger and disease. But rather and very resentfully, our lawmakers at the National Assembly and the Senate in particular have rather preferred to embark on needless voyages in the pretext of legislations. ‘’This Coalition is extremely worried that most times these lawmakers who found themselves in the national parliament are not only lacking ideas, but are not also armed with procedures of legislation that would meaningfully ginger national development and progress,” he said.