The apex Northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has postponed its 20th anniversary celebration slated for next week, giving the recent Kaduna killings and the spreading Coronavirus as reasons for the postponement. The anniversary celebration earlier slated for Wednesday 11th and Thursday 12th March, 2020, in Kaduna, was expected to have President Muhammadu Buhari, former Head of State, Gen Yakubu Gowon and President, United Nations General Assembly, Amb Prof Tijjani Muhammad Bande, as Special Guest of Honour, Chairman of the Occasion and Guest Speaker, respectively. Chairman, ACF Anniversary Organizing Committee and former Sokoto State Governor, Senator Aliyu M. Wamakko, who announced the postponement in a statement said, it would be insensitive at this time to go ahead with the celebration in the face of the recent killings and the threatening Coronavirus. He however said, a new date for the anniversary celebration would be communicated to all in due course. According to Wamakko, “The Leadership of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) regrets to inform the general public and most importantly our esteemed Special Guests the postponement of the events of its 20th Anniversary Celebrations scheduled to take place on Wednesday 11th and Thursday 12th March, 2020, in Kaduna. “The decision to postpone the celebration was taken in view of our concern to the spate of killings by the renewed bandit and terrorist attacks in the North, particularly the recent one in Kaduna where the event was scheduled to take place. Furthermore, the corona virus threat which is a global concern cannot be ignored. “In view of the above, the leadership of ACF after due consultations with major stakeholders and members of the Forum felt that it would be insensitive at this material time to go ahead with the programs. “ACF, therefore, regrets all inconveniences this painful postponement would cause our: Special Guest of Honour, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, Chairman ACF Board of Patrons, Gen Yakubu Gowon GCFR, PhD, Guest Speaker, Amb Prof Tijjani Muhammad Bande, OFR, President, United Nations General Assembly, Special Guests, President of the Senate, Sen Ahmed Ibrahim Lawan, PhD, CON, Their Excellencies, Members of the ACF Board of Patrons,  Recipients of the Arewa Distinguished Service Award, Their Excellencies, Governors of the Northern States, particularly, the Governor of Plateau State, Rt. Hon Simon Bako Lalong, Chairman, Northern States Governors Forum, The Chief Host, Mallam Nasiru Ahmed el-Rufa’i, OFR, Executive Governor, Kaduna state, who has put in place all arrangements to host the ACF Anniversary Lunch/Award ceremony, Members of the National and States Assembly, Northern Emirs and Chiefs, Members of the Diplomatic Corps and other distinguished invited guests, etc. “As the forum regrets this painful decision, it wishes to assure all that it was in the overall best interest of our people and Nigeria at large. A new date will be communicated to all. “ACF extends its regrets and apology to all concerned.” Wamakko said. 