My name is Aminah Ize Muhammed, I am the 9th child of the 11 children of parents,  Mr and Mrs Jibrin Muhammed, from Kogi State. I was born in Okene, Kogi State on November 2, 1998. Most of my schooling was in Kogi State. I had my primary education in Khayra Ummatin Nursery and Primary School, Lokoja Kogi State, secondary education in Harmony Secondary School, Lokoja. Currently, I’m in my final year at Kogi State University. I am a Make up artist with the brand name Meenahjesty MuA, derived from my first name.  Business I playfully picked up the hobby at home after which I enrolled with a professional for a business touch. I started my brand [Meenahjesty MuA] in late 2017 after encouragement from my friends and family, then it became a work in progress. I see myself becoming better and bigger. Interestingly, the business has also turned me into a tourist: I travel far and near to get my customers’ face beat done for event.  Mentor Miss Sidahome of Sooo Proo Cosmetics  Inspiration I’ve always had that interest in beautification – hair, clothes, makeup, beauty enhancement, I was interested in it all. But makeup looked like it’d give me a chance to flex my creative ability, so I signed up to learn better and also to learn about the professionalism of the business. I have quite a few people I want to be like in the makeup business circle: Miss Sidahome of Soo Proo Cosmetics, Miss Ariyike of Ariyike Glams and Miss Omaregha of Bregha; these women inspire me.  What are your dread /fears? The skills and traits that I lack inspire me.  Basically, striving to be a better person is inspiring. I’m scared of rejection and not being able to beat my clients expectations.  How are you different from others My craft is quite unique because of who I am. The touch I added to my craft makes me really different whenever I meet a client or potential client; they may forget my craft, but they can’t forget my energy. That’s what keeps me out there.  Future projection Right now I have a makeup studio with lots of student under my care. I also have many future plans, but it all comes down to the path the Almighty has chosen for me. But business wise, I plan to expand my brand after school, however and whichever way I can.  Challenges I’m still a student living under my parents, so I honestly have no difficulty whatsoever with this combination. But I experience difficulty as a student though.  Advice to fellow women No matter what you do as an aspiring or upcoming businesswoman, don’t forget to put yourself out there too. Putting out only your business strikes out opportunities. You may never know where the jackpot lies. Also, keep your head high, support a sister whenever you find yourself in that position, be consistent and put God first. Dream big, dream wild. There is nothing that is impossible in this journey of life; although not everyone will understand your course, your action your silence, your fear and pain or happiness. We aren’t getting out alive if we don’t hold our dreams close enough to make it a reality. With faith and hard work everything will turn out in your favour. Just be focus and determine to win.