Stakeholders have again called on the Federal government to take the issue of job creation seriously if it is keen on solving the nation’s rising insecurity situation. They submitted that since the youth constitute the bulk of the society, they become willing tools for insurgency and other societal vices if not gainfully employed. This submission was made at the public presentation of a book titled “Growing Delinquency” in Abuja at the weekend. One of the speakers at the public presentation and Chairman of the event, Alh Munzali Dantata insisted that parents must also do more in the raising up of children, adding that the book sound the alarm of the growing delinquencies in the nation. “All the problems we are facing today not only in this country but around the world is interrelated and they have to do with the changing times due to technology which is also in part responsible for climate change because of human intervention with machines which in turn causes global warming and that causes unemployment. Unemployment is now causing insecurity with youths becoming delinquent. The problems are interrelated. Once there are jobs created, that will also directly affect the issues of insecurity because people will be gainfully employed whether in business or other fields. “We are going through very trying times and facing a lot of challenges as a nation and that is what the book try’s to address purposely for the youths as well as the parents of the youths who are supposed to show them the way. From the title ‘Growing Delinquency’, the author give a wake up call that hope is not lost but then, there is the need for action to be taken at the right time so that direction is given to the youths who are supposed to be the leaders of tomorrow.” He said. Author of the book, Nuhu Danladi Cheshi while highlighting the importance of education in curbing the insecurity situation in the country said, “We are faced with a lot of challenges in Nigeria today and these are delinquent issues which would have been curbed. A well trained person will not go about bombing people, a well trained person will know how the treat the other person better and that is what education would address.”. Reviewing the 130 paged book, National Secretary of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), represented by the Chairman FCT Council, Emmanuel Ogbeche observed that the book was the writer’s contribution to the growing search for peace in the country.