An Ethiopian Airlines Freighter on yesterday landed at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos to deliver medical supplies from the Jack Ma Foundation. The flight landed at 3:20pm, hours after the closure of international airports by the Nigerian Government. The government had given exemption to flights on humanitarian aids, medical and relief flights. The director-general of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt Musa Nuhu, had listed the various exemptions to include “aircraft in state of emergency; overflights; alternate aerodromes identified in the flight plan (including those being used for extended diversion time operations); technical stop where passengers do not disembark; cargo flights and other safety-related operations. “All these exemptions are with the express permission of the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika.” On the basis of this, Ethiopian Airlines delivered the medical supplies and equipment such as masks, sanitisers which help in the global fight against the coronavirus (COVID-19). The items were donated to Africa by the Jack Ma Foundation owned by a Chinese Business mogul, Jack Ma. It was learnt that with the support of Ali Baba, an e-commerce giants, each of the 54 African countries would get 20,000 testing kits, 100,000 masks, and 1,000 medical use protective suits and face shields “We appreciate the donation of the Jack Ma Foundation and the generosity of Mr. Jack Ma. We admire our Prime Minister, H.E. Dr. Abiy Ahmed for his initiative and organisation of the entire coordination of the process,” ET General Manager in Nigeria, Firihiewot Mekonnen, said. She added, “As an indigenous and pioneer Pan African airline, Ethiopian Airlines has stood together with Africans at all times for the last seven decades. “Ethiopia has supported Africans in good and challenging times. In this unprecedented global pandemic, Ethiopian Airline will continue its commitment for African people to help them fight and win this invisible enemy. “Today, we are very happy to deliver these medical supplies to the Government and people of Nigeria. Ethiopian Airlines has always Stood by Nigeria in times of Good and Bad.”