Wife of former Senate President and Founder of The Wellbeing Foundation Africa, Mrs Toyin Saraki has congratulated former President Olusegun Obasanjo [GCON] on his 83rd Birthday, describing him as custodian of an unparalleled insight into the political landscape both in Nigeria and West Africa as a whole. Mrs Saraki in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP said, the ex president who was the first Nigerian leader to hand over power to a democratically-elected president, bears a critical, historic role in shaping the country’s political dynamics. According to her, Obasanjo’s steadfast commitment to political activism, and his ability to remain a voice of reason for an economically-prosperous Nigeria, are admired and respected by many leaders around the world. Serving as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria from 1999 to 2007, and Chairperson of the African Union from July 2004 to January 2006, President Obasanjo certainly is the custodian of an unparalleled insight into the political landscape both in Nigeria and West Africa as a whole. She further said; “At the 2017 Concordia Annual Summit, I was honored to be invited to engage at the Concordia Summit platform as President Obasanjo shared his insight into the challenges and opportunities facing West Africa, including issues spanning the role of the growing African population in economic development to navigating extremist threats from Boko Haram. Throughout the African continent, President Obasanjo provides tremendous value to the development and legitimacy of peace-building and conflict resolution efforts in the region. “It has been an unalloyed privilege for me to join President Obasanjo on Concordia’s Leadership Council, since 2019, out of my genuine admiration for the work that President Obasanjo and Concordia have committed to promoting positive social impact across the world, but particularly in Africa. “To echo the words of Concordia’s Co-Founders, Matthew A. Swift and Nicholas M. Logothetis: “President Obasanjo unwavering commitment to the people of Nigeria, and West Africa as a whole, is demonstrated by his unparalleled military and public service; his wisdom, humility, and presence will help guide growth and evolution,” she said. Mrs Toyin Saraki is a member of the Concordia Leadership Council.