Contrary to allegation of collusion to remove former Emir Sanusi from office, the presidency had intervened at many stages of the conflict to avoid escalation in the last two years, LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered yesterday. It was learnt that the effort collapsed because of the intransigence of the two sides to shift ground. A reliable presidency source who did not want his name in print told our correspondent that when the Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje administration made up its mind to remove Emir Sanusi as far back as 2017, the governor informed President Muhammadu Buhari of the decision. The source said Governor Ganduje however asked for advice and guidance but Buhari outrightly told him that it was inappropriate and requested that the plan be shelved. According to the source, the meeting was followed with a written letter to the governor dated November 17, 2017, in which the president’s advice was clearly stated. The president was said to have directed his chief of staff, Abba Kyari, to follow up for a peaceful resolution of the crisis of confidence between the two. This, the source said, led to the setting up of a committee made up of five state governors led by the govenor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi. The source stated that the committee did their best as calm returned even though occasional flare-ups continued and were aggravated by the tense situations under which the governor re-emerged for his second term in the 2019 general elections. It was further gathered that in the course of that period, Governor Fayemi, his Jigawa State counterpart, Abubakar Badaru and, to some extent, the Inspector General of Police made several visits to Kano to prevail on the governor to not remove the Emir in those tense moments in the interest of peace and security. The source said that the main grouse of the administration was that the Emir had failed to stay above the fray of partisan politics, especially as it related to the governor’s re-election. He added: “In reaction to the various suggestions by senior citizens including Generals Ibrahim Babangida, Wushishi and Abdulsalami Abubakar, among others, the chief of staff sought for permission and gave the green light for the commencement of work by the Abdulsalami Abubakar committee. “The committee members sat down with the president at the villa to discuss their mission. At this meeting, the president outlined the efforts he put into the resolution of the conflict in Kano and said he had had enough. The president gave assurances of his support and put at the committee’s disposal the use of the presidential aircraft, and then wished them the best of luck. But he did make clear that if the situation warranted it, we would not hesitate to clamp an emergency rule on the state. “Governor Ganduje gave conditions for peace, including the withdrawal of court cases by Emir Sanusi against the Kano State government. Sanusi allegedly accepted to withdraw some of the cases, but stood his ground on the others, including his refusal to withdraw a court case instituted by Bashir Tofa and his group who the state government alleged to be Sanusi’s proxy in the case. “The governor insisted that the newly-created emirates must be kept but acceded to the emir that four of the five kingmakers whose districts were excised from Kano be reinstated. The emir agreed not to appeal the decision to uphold the emirates by the courts. “It was clear all this while that the inflexibility to meet some of the conditions for peace by both have added complications that made peace almost impossible. For example, the former emir had wanted the Kano State Anti Corruption Commission to stop its case against him completely. “He stood firmly that the case he instituted against the Code of Conduct Bureau will not be withdrawn because, in his view he needed to pursue it to clear his name, a demand that Governor Ganduje rejected. The Abubabar committee’s report didn’t give any glimmer of hope for ending the crisis as a mediator’s success depends largely on the cooperation of the parties involved”. Despite these frustrations, the  source further explained that President Buhari didn’t give up on the efforts for peace. According to the  presidency official, when the chief of staff led a delegation to condole the former Emir over the death of Ambassador Sunusi, the late Dan Iyan Kano, and the former Emir’s uncle, the chief of staff, Abba Kyari, met separately with Governor Ganduje and Sanusi in a renewed effort to reconcile the two actors in the conflict. The source noted that having gone to this extent for peace, it was uncharitable and baseless to accuse President Buhari of ordering Ganduje to depose Sanusi. He continued: “The president holds Sanusi in the highest esteem and has nothing personal against him and, therefore, he couldn’t have told Ganduje to depose him. “Allegations that Abuja (referring indirectly to President Buhari) is complicit in the Emir’s alleged forceful removal from the palace and exile to Nasarawa are equally nonsensical. Chieftaincy law in northern Nigeria going back to 1919 makes for the deposition and confinement of emirs and chiefs. “Sarki Alu of Kano was removed by the colonial administration using this law and was walked to Lokoja on foot to start a life of exile. State governments have used the law to full effect dealing with Sultan Dasuki in Sokoto, who was removed and kept in Zing, Taraba State and Emir Jokolo of Gwandu, Kebbi State, who has been kept away from the state now for over two decades. Kano State did not need President Buhari’s authorisation for anyone to remove and exile emirs and chiefs”. Nothing Has Changed About Me, Says Deposed Emir Meanwhile, the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, has said that nothing has changed in his life apart from not being on the throne. Sanusi, who was speaking for the first time after his dethronement, said talking to family and friends on the matter was always difficult, adding that the incident was worth sharing. He said, “Maybe what I should do is share a story of my daughter when we were flown to Abuja and was about to go to Nasarawa and she met us at the airport and she came and was crying. “I said why are you crying? In our family we believe that God decides for who to be a king; he also decides the day you will be king and the day you will stop being a king. So let’s assume that God has fixed those days from June 8, 2014 to March 9, 2020. “I asked that if God had said on March 9, 2020, that today is the end of your father’s reign and you have two options, one is to take his life and he dies on the throne, the other option is, I  take the throne away but leaves him alive which one would you pick? And she said I will rather have you alive. I asked her so why are you crying? I will not spend one day beyond March 9 because that is the end of my term. “Somebody else is going to be in and I always said that it is either you die or you live. If you are given life and you don’t know how many more years and you don’t know what else you are going to do, it is just an opportunity to add more things to what you have”.