… As Ex. Gov sues EFCC Following the nod by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC to reopen the alleged N100 billion naira case of former Rivers state governor, Dr Peter Odili, the embattled governor has sued the Commission, seeking the maintaining of 2007 restriction order. The case comes on March, 30, 2020. Recall that some restraining order were obtained by both the representative of River state government and Dr. Peter Odili in 2007. The investigation began in 2006 before it was aborted by some high court based on a suit instituted by Odili and some officials of the State govt. The petitioner had alleged that Dr. Odili, then a governor of River state had conspired with officials of his government and the chairman, Rocksons Engineering Group of Companies to divert over N100 billion naira from the account of Rivers state, alleging that he used same for Power Project in Rivers. The petitioner also went further to say that part of the state fund was moved to the government house account, from where it was distributed to the then governor and his relatives and investigation commence. The account of the government house domiciled in zenith Bank  was immediately obtained and details of the account revealed that about N4 billion between 2004 and 2006 was moved in cash to Zenith Bank branch in Maitama in favour Odili’s ADC, Isaac Onyesom and one Emmanuel Nkata who was a staff in River State  liaison office Abuja. These funds were allegedly withdrawn cash for the former governor of River state. EFCC sources stated that Nkatah was arrested and he confirmed that the funds were withdrawn for the former governor through his ADC. Investigation was on when the ADC, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, ASP, suddenly retired from the Police and disappeared into thin air. The ADC, the principal suspect in the alleged fraud has been in hiding, he has refused to honour the invitation of the Commission. The Commission reliably gathered that it was because of the case that he prematurely retired from the police voluntarily. According to the Sources, among those who also benefited from the funds from River state was Ahmadu Ali, former chairman of PDP who received a manager’s cheque of N100 million from the same account on November 28, 2005. Between 2005 and 2006, the former governor, Odili allegedly paid one Prof. Ukandi Damanchi about N1.5 billion which was used to obtain a doctorate Degree and naming of a Hall after Peter Odili in Lincoln University, USA and so many others. From the same account, he allegedly moved N3 billion to an oil company for shares, N1.4 billion to a bottle water company, and about N1.8billion to a communication company which as of 2006, had no share as it was not a quoted company. The EFCC noted that when the investigation commenced, Odili quickly involved the State government to take over the shares but the State government was not comfortable and requested that the companies return their money. While investigation was going on to unravel the remaining beneficiaries and the funds that was moved to Rockson Group of Company, These and others made Peter Odili to approach the court where he obtained a perpetual order so that the investigation be stopped. The EFCC sources has however, noted that new intelligence have emerged against the third party which had link with some group of companies belonging to Dr. Odili. “Sometimes in 2018, information was received that some Companies belonging to a retired ASP: NUMAC Project Company Ltd and NUMAC Global Resources Ltd, had between 2004 and 2018 received over N5 billion into the account and the funds came in tranches of N500, N300 millions among others, which is suspicious. “The intelligence further explained that the funds are in the following accounts: GTB, Zenith, FBN, Access, Standard Chartered, FCMB and UBA. Turnover in all the accounts are over N10 billion. “These Companies and their accounts were thoroughly investigated and it was discovered that the inflow into these accounts are mostly cash. On few occasions, about N2 billion came in from River state government account before 2016 and 2017. ” These funds were trace to the following Companies: Pamo Group of companies Ltd, Pamo Clinic and Hospital and Pamo Educational Foundation. The above companies were found to have belonged to Dr. Peter Odili and his family. Based on the above, and in view that the above companies were not part of restraining order of the Federal High Court, the EFCC commenced further investigation. “It was further established that the funds were moved from the Banks in Abuja contrary to the cairns that the money formed part of security.”