…Court quashes ex-VP’s motion to stop president’s libel suit A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory has dismissed a motion brought by former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, seeking to stop the court from entertaining a N40million libel suit against him by President Muhammadu Buhari and his family. In the suit filed on January 22, 2019 by the 2nd plaintiff, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the plaintiffs are praying the court to order Atiku to pay N40million for alleged libelous claims published on December 27, 2018 to the effect that President Buhari and members of his family own substantial shares in telecoms giant, 9mobile, and Keystone Bank respectively. The court headed by Justice Binta Mohammed threw out Atiku’s motion seeking to stop Buhari’s libel suit on the ground it will be against the principle of fairing not to hear the libel suit. Specifically, Justice Mohammed ruled that it offends the provision of section 36 subsection 1 of the 1999 constitution (as amended), which borders on the principles of fair hearing, if President Buhari’s libel suit is not heard. Not satisfied, the judge granted the application by counsel to the plaintiffs, Abdulrasak Idowu Ahmed, seeking leave of the court to file their amended writ of summon, statement of claim and witness deposition. Accordingly, the judge adjourned the case to June 9, 2020 for hearing on the substantive suit. Lead counsel to the defendants, Chukwuma- Chukwu Ume (SAN), had filed a motion on February 21 asking the court to dismiss Buhari’s statement of defence, statement of claim and witness deposition on grounds that the plaintiffs did not get the leave of court to file same they were amended. But the plaintiffs argued that they had earlier sought the leave of court to allow them file their processes out of time and paid all the fines (penalties) for filing out of time. The plaintiffs insisted on Tuesday that the defendants’ motion cannot be heard because they are within time but the court refused, saying Atiku’s should move his motion. In the suit, the plaintiffs are seeking N40million damages from Atiku for alleged libel against President Muhammadu Buhari and his family. In their witness statement on oath made by Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the plaintiffs told the court that Atiku and his media aide, Phrank Shaibu, allegedly engaged in smear campaign of calumny against Buhari by willfully allowing and sponsoring the said purported defamatory and image-damaging statements to be published by some newspapers to members of the public. They plaintiffs are praying the court for a declaration that “the 1st Defendant on behalf and for the 2nd Defendant (Atiku) neglectfully, unlawfully and recklessly permitted and caused to be published in Newspapers defamatory and damaging statements against the 1st Plaintiff (President Buhari)”. They are also seeking the court to order “specific Damages against the Defendants jointly and severally in the sum of (N30,000,000.00) Thirty Million Naira as the total sum above listed as financial loss the Plaintiffs incurred due to the wrongful, neglectful and fraudulent acts of the Defendants which forced the Plaintiffs to spend to correct the wrong impression created in the minds of the members of the public due to the publication  caused and published by the Defendants”. The plaintiffs are also asking for “general damages in the sum of (N10,000,000,00) Ten Million Naira only jointly and severally against the Defendants for the embarrassment, pain and unnecessary financial loss suffered by the Plaintiffs most particularly the 1st Plaintiff who is a public figure, an honourable presidential candidate and reputable gentleman to the core”. 