She was recently recognised as one of the 20 most outstanding women across the globe. This politician and entrepreneur, is also a gender activist. Meet Chikas Kumle, our woman of substance this week Background I was born to the family of late Mr and Mrs Daniel Kumle. I had my primary and secondary education in Gindiri in Plateau State. I graduated from Girls High School, Gindiri in 2005 from where I moved to the University of Jos to study Geography and Planning. Later on I left for the National Open University of Nigeria where I had a B.sc in Peace studies and Conflict resolution. Growing up for me was fun and interesting. My dad was an administrator and my mum, a teacher. We were given the fundamentals that every African child needs which is good education and family support and we were really encouraged to live our dreams, I was given the support to dream big and aspire for greatness being the last of three girls. My family gave me all the support that I needed growing up. I will always appreciate them my parents for the solid foundation they laid in me.  Career I am still laying the foundation of where I am going as a politician, as an entrepreneur and a gender activist. I had from my early days been quite expressive, I was never muscled from expressing myself. So I grew up that way. When I see something that isn’t right, I speak out. The last eight to 10 years have really brought out that character in me. I started from the bottom which was to contest at the Plateau Youth Council for which I got elected to chair the Pankshin chapter of the council in 2017. For me, that gave me a better platform to explore politics beyond just reading news and voting. In 2019 I became a candidate of the Social democratic Party to represent Pankshin south constituency in Plateau State House of Assembly. It wasn’t a success but it was worth it and I remain grateful for all the experiences I have had from the youth council through to circular politics where I am fully engaged. I will remain in politics for as long as democracy is practiced. I am laying my structures for a firm foundation for where I am headed because leadership in this country is one thing we need to face.  Elevate 2020 This is an event that was held in Chicago USA in commemoration of the international women’s day. The event was to celebrate 20 women across the globe who have shown great commitment in service to their communities, their states or their country in forging the agenda of women. For me being so recognised is humbling and beyond just having Chikas Kumle awarded or recognised. It is about having women in Africa and women in Nigeria being so recognised. Our voice is being heard.  Young Women in politics The future of young women in politics is so bright, we had at no time had this number of young women actively involved in politics. Speaking from experience, I will tell you that there were times that women didn’t have the space to do what we are currently doing. Having to contest for election in my constituency being the youngest woman and the first to have gotten to the ballot, is one thing that tells of the general change that is happening. Young women now are having space in political conversations. Change is a permanent thing and as the change has begun, I believe that the future of young women in politics will be as bright as the promises of God which are so sure and certain. We don’t have the numbers yet in parliament and executive positions, to reflect that we are really being considered in the affairs and issues of governance. I am excited that I am in this political space and I will remain in it to bring in more young and efficient women  Challenges One of the major challenges I have faced  is people’s perception and mind set to why a young woman like me should be in this political space knowing how toxic and monetised this space is. But for me, I don’t blame them because it’s quite difficult for people  who are bound to cultural and traditional norms  to believe that as a woman one has  knowledge and understanding of issues as it relates to governance and proffering solutions to the basic needs of our people. So  whenever I’m faced with people who have this kind of mind-set, I immediately tell myself that this is a challenge. I get over it by reminding myself I am where I am to fulfill God’s purpose. To serve God and humanity. I grow through challenges and pressure because it drives me to be a better version of myself.  Mentoring To me this is having a clear track platform on where you have been and where you have gotten to that one can clearly guide another person into achieving all they have achieved. So mentoring for me is very important in the sense that if you want to achieve or get to the point that another person has been, then you must allow such a person to put you through and teach you. Mentoring is important, because it helps the mentee in avoiding some of the pit holes and mistakes that can be made. It shortens the time and reduces the difficulties that are encountered because they say experience is the best teacher. So when you have someone who is at the point you are trying to get to guiding you, this makes your journey easier. This requires a lot of discipline from the mentor to the mentee there is a need for both parties to be disciplined and be committed.  Philanthropy Offering yourself and all you are blessed with to bless others and to make an impact. More of like religion, you don’t compel people to do it don’t force people in to it. It is admired in people and I believe in it. If God blesses you with anything you need to extend that blessing to people who don’t have it. We however, practice this in different forms. What I probably see as service to others may be different for another person’s. But, the general belief is showing to the world and to God how much you appreciate all He has done for you. The best form is seeing that you lift others, impact lives. I practice this but these days I don’t make noise about it, because in politics this can be easily misinterpreted. Long before I ran for office it has been a part of me. The public display isn’t there since it is a personal thing to me.  Inspiration I’m inspired by people who have come from nothing to something. Deeply inspired by the human ability to conceive an idea and bring it to reality. Every day I am inspired by life itself. That human beings are able to wake up and go out to make a difference in the lives of others. The ability to contribute to lives of others, this gets me off the bed each day. For every day I have, it is a message to become more. I have gone through a lot in life and I haven’t been broken. I believe that if we are positive with goals, there would be multiple streams of inspiration. I am inspired by life itself.  Legacy I want to be remembered for being a woman that told herself there is nothing she cannot achieve or became afraid of, fearless and courageous about the potentials God had given her.