Dr Ibrahim Husseini Doko Ibrahim is the director-general of the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC). In this interview with NKECHI ISAAC, he talks about the council’s efforts in helping develop Lovastatin in collaboration with the academia for the control of cholesterol levels, saying the outcome is expected to save the country millions spent on importation of this product by pharmaceutical companies as well as provide jobs for the teeming unemployed youths. The excerpts. What is cholesterol and what are its effects on human beings? Cholesterol is a waxy substance found in the blood. The body needs cholesterol to build healthy cells, but high levels of cholesterol increases the risk of heart disease. It leads to deposition of fats in the blood vessels. Eventually, these deposits grow and make it difficult for enough blood to flow through the arteries. It is carried through blood, attached to proteins. This combination of proteins and cholesterol is called a lipoprotein. There are different types of cholesterol, based on what the lipoprotein carries. They are Low-Density Lipoprotein (LDL) and High Density Lipoprotein (HDL). LDL is usually referred to as bad cholesterol as it builds up in the walls of arteries, making them hard and narrow. The high-density lipoprotein (HDL) is generally known as “good”. High cholesterol level can be inherited, but it’s often the result of unhealthy lifestyle, which makes it preventable and treatable. A healthy diet, regular exercise and sometimes medication can help reduce high cholesterol level in human beings. What causes high cholesterol levels and what are its effects on human beings? Among the risk factors are poor diet, eating saturated fat found in animal products, and trans fats found in some commercially baked cookies and crackers and microwave popcorn can raise cholesterol level. Foods that are high in cholesterol, such as red meat and full-fat dairy products, also increase cholesterol. Obesity, having a body mass index (BMI) of 30 or greater puts you at risk of high cholesterol. Exercise helps HDL, or “good,” cholesterol. Cigarette smoking also damages the walls of blood vessels, making them more prone to accumulate fatty deposits. Smoking might also lower levels of HDL. Aging also, increase cholesterol level. The body chemistry changes as one ages and the risk of high cholesterol increases. Diabetes and high blood sugar contribute significantly to higher levels of dangerous cholesterol called very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and lower HDL cholesterol arteries. Development of atherosclerosis High cholesterol levels can cause accumulation of cholesterol and other deposits on the walls of arteries (atherosclerosis). These deposits can reduce blood flow through arteries leading to complications such as chest pain. If the arteries that supply heart with blood (coronary arteries) are affected, it leads to chest pain (angina) and other symptoms of coronary artery disease. Heart attack, if plaques tear or rupture, a blood clot can form at the plaque-rupture site, blocking the flow of blood or breaking free and plugging an artery downstream. If blood flow to part of heart stops, it will result in heart attack. Stroke, similar to a heart attack can also occur when a blood clot blocks blood flow to part of the brain. What efforts are being made to control Low Density Lipoprotein? Efforts have been made globally to find medications for the control of LDL through the development of lovastatin from natural sources. Compactin and lovastatin, natural products with a powerful inhibitory effect on HMG-CoA reductase, were discovered in the 1970s, and taken into clinical development as potential drugs for lowering LDL cholesterol. In 1982, some small-scale clinical investigations of lovastatin, a polyketide-derived natural product isolated from Aspergillus terreus, in very high-risk patients were undertaken, in which dramatic reductions in LDL cholesterol were observed, with very few adverse effects. Large-scale trials have confirmed the effectiveness of lovastatin and tolerability was observed to be excellent, and lovastatin was approved by the US FDA in 1987. It was the first statin approved by the FDA. In 2016, it was the 72nd most prescribed medication in the USA with more than 11 million prescriptions. How does lovastatin work to reduce cholesterol in human body? Lovastatin is an inhibitor of 3-hydoxy-3 methylglutaryl-coenzyme A and reduces (HMG-CoA reductase), an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate. Mevalonate is a required building block for cholesterol biosynthesis and lovastatin interferes with its production by acting as a reversible competitive inhibitor for HMG-CoA, which binds to the HMG-CoA reductase. Lovastatin is a prodrug, an inactive lactone in its native form, the gammalactone closed ring form in which it is administered, is hydrolysed in vivo to the b-hydroxy acid open ring form; which is the active form. Lovastatin is adequately available in some mushroom species. Why are mushrooms so important in statin production? Mushrooms are widespread in temperate and subtropical forests. Some of them have high concentrations of lovastatin up to 2.8 per cent on dry weight basis. As a result of these, they have been employed in lovastatin production in many countries. What are the contributions of your organization towards the development of lovastatin in the country? The council investigated a number of wild mushrooms to determine their properties and to come up with those with adequate potentials for use in lovastatin production. More than ten varieties were screened and we came up with the one with adequate potentials for lovastatin production in the country. The project was in furtherance of the capacity building and entrepreneurship development programmes earlier carried out by the council on mushroom development in Nigeria. It is basically value-addition to mushroom to produce secondary raw materials of nutraceutical values. The project was hinged on production of lovastatin as all statin drugs are imported into Nigeria and there is no local production. From the survey we conducted to determine the importation of statin drugs into Nigeria, it was observed that a lot of foreign exchange are expended on statins importation. The result justified the need for sourcing of local alternatives. Available data shows that Nigeria imported about 310,644 kg of statin drugs worth over hundred million naira in 2017. Based on these we embarked on the project to obtain baseline data on the status of Lovastatin usage in the pharmaceutical industry and to determine the optimal production of Lovastatin from lolly available wild mushrooms in Nigeria. Other objectives were to design alternative and viable technologies for mushroom production compatible with the local environment and to employ alternative raw materials and locally develop them into high value products. As I have already highlighted, the focus was to develop lovastatin, a secondary raw material produced from the mushrooms to serve the nutrition and pharmaceutical industries. The lovastatin has been developed and it is being upgraded with additives into supplements for treatment of cholesterol and reduction of cardio-vascular diseases. The council is currently promoting large scale cultivation of the identified wild mushroom from which lovastatin will be produced on a large scale in collaboration with our research partner, the International Centre for Ethno-Medicine and Drug Discovery (InterCEED) which is an arm of the Bio-resources Development Group (BDG) situated at Nsukka, Enugu State. Other collaborators on this project are University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) and Nnamdi Azikiwe University (NAU), Awka. The commercialization of the project, the process which commenced late last year (2019), would save the country huge foreign exchange expended on the importation of the drugs and also create jobs. The project was one of those the council showcased during the FMST EXPO 2020 that took place in Abuja in March, 2020 and attracted a lot of interests from the investing public and the academia. A number of investors are following all protocols to invest in the product. Before the end of this year, it is my hope that lovastatin will be on its way to the market. 