Following the report of appointment of Bashir Jamoh as the new director-general (DG) of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), to replace Dakuku Peterside, whose tenure expires on March 10, 2020, the minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi  said he is not aware of the alleged Peterside replacement. There were unofficial information yesterday that President Muhammadu Buhari had approved the appointment of Jamoh, an executive director of administration and finance in NIMASA, as the new DG of NIMASA. In a television programme yesterday monitored by LEADERSHIP, the minister, while reacting to the alleged sack of Peterside and his replacement by Jamoh, said: “I am not aware. As of yesterday when I spoke to the DG of NIMASA, he was in the office and they had a board meeting and he was present at the meeting. I am not aware that he has been removed. I spoke to him at about 3 pm to 4 pm. I should know if he has been sacked. If I am the minister of transportation, I should know. “Maybe we need to call him (Peterside) this morning to know whether he is in the office but the government does not take an arbitrary decision. If he were to be sacked, the minister of transportation would be told to formally intimate the DG of his sack and I am not aware that the president has directed me to intimate anybody of his sack. “His tenure expires on the 10th of this month. When it expires, you can then approach the president to either reappoint him or replace him. The president has the appointing authority. All the minister has by law is the recommendation authority.” Reacting to the alleged refusal of Peterside to attend National Assembly summons, he said: “I attend National assembly summons because they have the authority to summon a minister or the head of parastatals. I would be surprised if Peterside does not honour summons because he was once a member of the House of Representative.” Speaking on the speculation that his alleged sack might be due to the failure of the agency to audit its account for six years, the minister said: “I am not aware that that could be the reason. He has been DG for only four years because he came into office in 2016 and they cannot be punishing him for the offence committed by previous DGs. “I don’t think that those speculations are right. I just think they are mere speculations and we should wait until Tuesday next week when his tenure will officially expire. The president has the right to appoint whoever he wants to appoint and if he wants to extend his tenure, he will extend his tenure.”