President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday ordered complete shutdown of Lagos and Ogun States as well as Abuja, the nation’s capital, for a period of two weeks to stem the continuous spread of Coronavirus across the country. According to him, from today, March 30, 2020, all citizens in the restricted areas are to stay in their respective homes, just as travelling to and from other states is hereby postponed. In a live broadcast to Nigerians on the Covid-19 pandemic aired on national television and radio stations at 7:00pm yesterday, the president said although the measures put in place would bring untold hardship on Nigerians, they have become inevitable sacrifices the citizens must make to address the global pandemic which he said had become a matter of life and death. “We are fully aware that such measures will cause much hardship and inconvenience to many citizens. But this is a matter of life and death, if we look at the dreadful daily toll of deaths in Italy, France and Spain. However, we must all see this as our national and patriotic duty to control and contain the spread of this virus. I will therefore ask all of us affected by this order to put aside our personal comfort to safeguard ourselves and fellow human beings. This common enemy can only be controlled if we all come together and obey scientific and medical advice”, Buhari appealed. He pointed out that the government will use the containment period to identify, trace and isolate all individuals that have come into contact with confirmed cases. He added that the government will ensure the treatment of confirmed cases while restricting further spread to other states. Buhari, however, said commercial establishments such as food processing, distribution and retail companies; petroleum distribution and retail entities, power generation, transmission and distribution companies as well as private security companies are exempted. For telecommunications, broadcast, print and electronic media staff, the president said those who could prove they will be unable to work from home would also be exempted. The president also approved two months cash transfer for vulnerable Nigerians to cushion the effect of the total lockdown. “For the most vulnerable in our society, I have directed that the conditional cash transfers for the next two months be paid immediately. Our Internally displaced persons will also receive two months of food rations in the coming weeks”, he stated. Declaring a total shutdown in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun, Buhari said, “Based on the advice of the Federal Ministry of Health and the NCDC, I am directing the cessation of all movements in Lagos and the FCT for an initial period of 14 days with effect from 11pm on Monday, 30th March 2020. This restriction will also apply to Ogun State due to its close proximity to Lagos and the high traffic between the two States. “All citizens in these areas are to stay in their homes. Travel to or from other states should be postponed. All businesses and offices within these locations should be fully closed during this period. “The governors of Lagos and Ogun States as well as the Minister of the FCT have been notified. Furthermore, heads of security and intelligence agencies have also been briefed. “We will use this containment period to identify, trace and isolate all individuals that have come into contact with confirmed cases. We will ensure the treatment of confirmed cases while restricting further spread to other States. “This order does not apply to hospitals and all related medical establishments as well as organizations in health care related manufacturing and distribution. “Furthermore, commercial establishments  such as; food processing, distribution and retail companies; petroleum distribution and retail entities,power generation, transmission and distribution companies; and private security companies are also exempted. “Although these establishments are exempted, access will be restricted and monitored. Workers in telecommunication companies, broadcasters, print and electronic media staff who can prove they are unable to work from home are also exempted”. The president however noted that all seaports in Lagos shall remain operational in accordance with the guidelines he had earlier issued. “Vehicles and drivers conveying essential cargoes from these Ports to other parts of the country will be screened thoroughly before departure by the Ports Health Authority”. Furthermore, the president noted that all vehicles conveying food and other essential humanitarian items into Abuja, Lagos and Ogun from other parts of the country will also be screened thoroughly before they are allowed to enter the restricted areas. Accordingly, Buhari directed the minister of Health to redeploy all port health authority employees previously stationed in the Lagos and Abuja airports to key roads that serve as entry and exit points to the three restricted zones. He also ordered that movements of all passenger aircrafts, both commercial and private jets be suspended, adding however that special permits will be issued on whenever the need arose. Buhari further approved the deployment of relief materials to citizens living in suburbs and satellite towns to cushion the effect of the lockdown order on Nigerians. He said, “As we remain ready to enforce these measures, we should see this as our individual contribution in the war against COVID-19. Many other countries have taken far stricter measures in a bid to control the spread of the virus with positive results. “For residents of satellite and commuter towns and communities around Lagos and Abuja whose livelihoods will surely be affected by some of these restrictive measures, we shall deploy relief materials to ease their pains in the coming weeks”. The president further said even though schools were already shut down, he has instructed the ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development to work with state governments in developing a strategy on how to sustain the school feeding programme during the period without compromising government’s social distancing policies. He added that the minister will be contacting the affected states and agree on detailed next steps. Buhari also directed that a three months repayment moratorium for all TraderMoni, MarketMoni and FarmerMoni loans be implemented with immediate effect. He stated: “I have also directed that a similar moratorium be given to all Federal Government funded loans issued by the Bank of Industry, Bank of Agriculture and the Nigeria Export Import Bank. “For on-lending using capital from international and multilateral development partners, I have directed our development financial institutions to engage these development partners and negotiate concessions to ease the pains of the borrowers”. The president further called on all Nigerians to take personal responsibility to support those who are vulnerable within their communities by helping them with whatever they may need. He continued: “As we all pray for the best possible outcome, we shall continue planning for all eventualities. This is why I directed that all Federal Government Stadia, Pilgrims camps and other facilities be converted to isolation centers and makeshift hospitals. “My fellow Nigerians, as a Government, we will avail all necessary resources to support the response and recovery. We remain committed to do whatever it takes to confront COVID-19 in our country. We are very grateful to see the emerging support of the private sector and individuals to the response as well as our development partners. “At this point, I will ask that all contributions and donations be coordinated and centralized to ensure efficient and impactful spending. The Presidential Task Force remains the central coordinating body on the COVID-19 response”. The president assured Nigerians that government ministries, departments and agencies with a role to play in the outbreak response were working hard to bring this virus under control. He implored Nigerians again to strictly comply with the guidelines issued and also do your bit to support Government and the most vulnerable in your communities. “Every nation in the world is challenged at this time. But we have seen countries where citizens have come together to reduce the spread of the virus”, he said.  Confirmed Cases In Nigeria Now 111 Meanwhile, Nigeria has confirmed 14 new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country  to 111. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control  (NCDC), nine of the new cases were reported in Lagos and five in FCT. Osinbajo Worships Online Meanwhile, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, alongside his aides, yesterday joined the worship at Aso Villa Chapel online in compliance with social distancing rules as Nigeria continues to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). The VP’s media aide, Laolu Akande, who disclosed this, said it was in line with government’s directive against large congregational gatherings, Hde note that the vice president and his aides have been working under the precautionary directive of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “Today, we just finished Sunday worship at the Aso Villa Chapel via live streaming service (online)”, he stated.  PDP Faults Buhari’s Address To Nigerians Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said yesterday that President Muhammadu Buhari’s long awaited address on the COVID-19 pandemic came empty and failed to address the salient demands of the impact of the scourge on our nation. The party, in a statement by its national publicity secretary Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that outside the social distancing and isolation, which Nigerians had already imposed on themselves, Mr President had no new solutions to offer the nation. The PDP regretted that the address did not touch on the real necessities of majority of Nigerians who reside in the states where President Buhari had ordered a lockdown. The party stated: „It is unfortunate that Mr. President failed to respond to demands on hope for medications, direct social palliatives, cut in taxes as well as reduction in the pump price of fuel even with the cut in the price of petroleum and crude oil in the international market. „Our party notes as saddening that even in areas where Mr. President announced an ambitious intervention, such remained largely cosmetic as there are no clear palliative content but moratoriums on loans with no clear data for implementation. “Mr. President is reminded that already, the COVID-19 had affected the performance of those loans. Granting them moratoriums is therefore of no consequence to the capital and interest on them. „It is rather unfortunate that Nigerians had to wait this long for an address that came out empty and failed to respond to anxieties. “Moreover, Nigerians expected Mr. President to articulate an across-the-board and far-reaching strategy that would have captured the need of each state of the federation as they were today, instead of a parochial approach to a national anxiety. “President Buhari should therefore go back, listen to the nation, retool his policy framework and implementation strategy to properly address the fears as well as the needs of Nigerians, including health safety measures and the real remedies that meet the anxieties of our nation at this critical time“.  Sanusi, Dangote Test Negative Meanwhile, former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, and his wives have tested negative to coronavirus. Adam Sanusi, the son of the ex- monarch, who disclosed this in a statement yesterday, urged Nigerians to comply with the government’s directives in the fight against the virus. He said that being infected with coronavirus was not a death sentence, adding that “we have been inundated with calls asking about the health and safety of my father (Sanusi) especially given the number of visitors he received on arrival in Lagos, and a number of contacts he had who have either tested positive for COVID-19 or were in contact with persons who tested positive. Also, Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, announced yesterday that he tested negative to coronavirus. Dongote announced this on his twitter account, saying “As a global citizen and business leader, I took the COVID-19 test and the result came back NEGATIVE. “The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted modern society, affecting our collective health and well-being. CACOVID (Coalition Against COVID-19) is an initiative that I am leading with other private sector leaders and our common goal is to support ongoing Government initiatives with our resources in the fight against Covid-19. We are in this together and I am optimistic we will overcome”, he added.  Dangote Plans 600-bed Isolation Centre in Kano Relatedly, Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, has promised  to establish an isolation center at the Sani Abacha Stadium with 600 bedding capacity to provide a befitting accommodation for all those affected by the dreaded coronavirus. Dangote  said he was determined to establish the 600-bed isolation facility at the stadium to accommodate would-be victims of coronavirus in the state in the event of any unprecedented occurrence . Dangote who made the pronouncement through Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, during the inauguration of a fund raising committee set to provide succour to victims of coronavrus in the state said the isolation centre would be established to complement the two centres meant for quarantining victims of COVID 19  in case of any eventuality. Ganduje expressed confidence that so far no single  case  of  Corona virus was  recorded in the state, except nine suspected victims whose result were declared negative by medical experts in the state . The governor inaugurated the 38-member fund raising committee to garner resources and to assist those affected in terms of feeding and other essentials. He said, „It is indicative that so many people get what they feed themselves on daily basis. As they go out, they get what to eat for that day. Government finds it extremely necessary to help people in that direction, at least to cushion the effect of the situation at hand. “As government is taking all the necessary measures there are people that are most vulnerable, who need all the necessary support. That is why we are doing our best to avoid what could be seen and termed as Stomach Virus instead, hence the need for this quick intervention. „That is why we chose people who are honest, genuine and people with dexterity in resource management; people who can take all the pains to locate those needy ones in our nooks and crannies. “This committee will find out donations from organisations, on corporate social responsibility basis, from individuals in order to galvanize the strength and see how to take care of those people who need such support“. Ganduje asked all retired health workers in the state register with the state ministry of Health on voluntary basis as part of preparations against the COVID-19 pandemic. „I am also calling on people to Fast tomorrow, Monday 30th March, which is equivalent to 5th Sha‘aban, 1441 AH, to pray for Allah‘s mercy and forgiveness against the deadly pandemic. As we are all praying against this for the state, the country and the entire humanity, in our Mosques in five daily prayers and in our Friday Mosques, it is very important to always pray for Allah‘s protection,“ he noted.  Israel Evacuates 274 Nationals From Nigeria Apparently wary of the exploding cases of COVID-19 in the country, the Israeli government has evacuated 247 of its nationals form Nigeria. The Israelis were evacuated via the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja to Tel-Aviv, Israel. The flight, operated with the Air Peace’s Boeing 777-300, left Lagos with 65 passengers and airlifted 209 others from Abuja before departing the country. Although international flights are suspended as part of measures to forestall further importation of coronavirus, emergency flights such as this are allowed to operate at the MMIA and NAIA.  German Finance Minister Commits Suicide Meanwhile, Thomas Schaefer, the finance minister of Germany’s Hesse state, has committed suicide after becoming “deeply worried” over how to cope with the economic fallout from the coronavirus, state premier Volker Bouffier, said yesterday. Schaefer, 54, was found dead near a railway track on Saturday. The Wiesbaden prosecution’s office said they believe he died by suicide. “We are in shock, we are in disbelief and above all we are immensely sad,” Bouffier said in a recorded statement. Hesse is home to Germany’s financial capital Frankfurt, where major lenders like Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank have their headquarters. The European Central Bank is also located in Frankfurt. A visibly shaken Bouffier recalled that Schaefer, who was Hesse’s finance chief for 10 years, had been working “day and night” to help companies and workers deal with the economic impact of the pandemic. “Today we have to assume that he was deeply worried,” said Bouffier, a close ally of Chancellor Angela Merkel. “It’s precisely during this difficult time that we would have needed someone like him,” he added. 