The Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, has described the state of primary health care facilities within the FCT as deplorable. The minister stated this at the commissioning and official handing over of the newly constructed maternal and paediatric health center wing of the Waru Primary Health Center, FCT, by the Inner City Mission for Children and Women, yesterday in Abuja. He said the administration is not only aware of the deplorable state of primary health care facilities in the city but also the enormous money required to rehabilitate the facilities. The Inner City Mission for Children, is an arm of the Chris Oyakhilomen Foundation. It is a full-fledged faith based non governmental organisation, dedicated to breaking the cycle of poverty by delivering a sustainable solution to the problem of urban and rural child poverty, reaching out to indigent children living in forgotten places. Chairperson of the Foundation, Rev Tom Amenkhienan, noted that the Inner City intervention in providing a Paediatric and maternal healthcare facility for the Waru community was borne out of passion for indigent children, as mentored by their leader, Pastor Chris Oyakhilomen. “Since our first contact with Waru Community, through our evangelical initiatives, we took it upon ourselves to make a difference here. Since then, we have carried out diverse interventions to bring joy, and improve the quality of life of the people, including charity food drives in which free meals and food supplies were provided to thousands of families and individuals in the community,  medical outreaches where thousands of children were immunised against deadly childhood diseases, and much more. “We are constantly working  with our church here in the community, Christ Embassy (Waru), to identify critical need areas and organise these efforts for the benefit of the populace”. Further speaking, Ramatu commended the InnerCity Mission for their show of selflessness and passion to give back to the society. She assured that the FCT administration through its primary health care board will take charge of the facilities and do justice to it. The minister also said in a bid to improving primary health care centers and facilities this year 2020, the renovation of 12 primary health care facilities will be completed, 6 primary health care clinic will be upgraded to primary health care centers, and 6 more primary health care centers will be rehabilitated in the 6 area councils of the FCT. On his part, Sarki of waru community, Mr Ibrahim Sarki, appreciated the Inner City Mission and Christ Embassy in general for their kind gesture for constructing a fully equipped health centre for the community. He noted the burden of accessing healthcare in the community will now be a thing of the past. Ibrahim assured the Foundation of the willingness as a community, to ensure the security of the facility. “We are aware of the security challenges in the FCT, but we assure you that we will join hand with the honourable minister to ensure the security of the facility. “I was naked, but now you clothed me. Thank you,” he stated. 