Leading commercial bank, Sterling Bank PLC, has entered into partnership with Health Emergency Initiative (HEI), a non-governmental organisation (NGO), to provide emergency medical assistance to accident victims and patients in emergency wards in public health institutions. Under the partnership, HEI trained two cohorts of emergency medical responders to reduce fatalities and permanent disabilities caused by dearth of pre-hospital emergency care. Apart from bridging the first responder gap, the NGO is working tirelessly to close identified skill gaps among emergency workers while also assisting destitute patients in public hospitals with treatment not exceeding N20,000. Divisional head, Education & Health Sectors, Sterling Bank PLC, Mr Obinna Ukachukwu, who disclosed this at a press conference in Lagos recently, said the bank decided to partner with HEI as part of its commitment to improve quality of lives of the Nigerian people through its HEART strategy. He explained that the Bank is focusing investments on five sectors of the economy – Health, Education, Agriculture, Renewable Energy and Transportation in a bid to make impact, adding that Sterling Bank believes strongly in responsible business practices. Ukachukwu hinted that the Bank had facilitated training for certain stakeholders including members of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) on issues relating to timely response to accident victims, adding that the collaboration is also aimed at developing creative methods by which more members of the public would play a supportive role in getting accident victims to hospitals for treatment instead of taking photographs/videos for use on social media. He added that the Bank looks forward to a situation whereby members of the public, officers of the Nigeria Police, Lagos State Emergency Ambulance Services (LASAMBUS), Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) or and other stakeholders would get accident victims to hospital for treatment without bothering about funding for the treatment. The divisional head noted that how people react to accident victims could determine whether they suffer permanent disability or die. Also speaking, executive director of HEI, Mr Pascal Achunine, said the NGO is a community of compassionate people standing in the gap for vulnerable segment of the Nigerian society, in a bid to enable them obtain life-saving medical care in public hospitals. He said the mission is to provide emergency medical assistance and care to indigents in public hospitals. The executive director observed that the NGO also “advocates and provides funds for post-crash care in a bid to enhance emergency treatment of road traffic accident victims by standing in as the next-of-kin to provide funds for resuscitation and stabilisation of the accident victims in a timely manner.” Besides this, the NGO provides training to first responders in order to equip them with life-saving skills that can double the chances of survival of accident victims. The practical training is certified by the American Heart Association. Ms Yemi Caxton, who represented the Lagos State commissioner for Health, advocated the adoption of a crowdfunding mechanism and deployment of technology to enable HEI to sustain its operations. Director of Lagos State Ambulance Services (LASAMBUS), Dr Kola Korolo, appreciated HEI and enjoined other stakeholders to join hands with government to improve access to medicare. He said this will go a long way in improving efforts, aimed at providing quality healthcare for indigent people. He called for the setting up of an emergency health fund to support emergencies in the country. Assistant chief medical director, Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Professor Wasiu Adeyemo, echoed the need for an all-inclusive National Health Insurance Scheme. Public Education Officer with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ms Olabisi Sonusi, said she was very happy that critical stakeholders like Sterling Bank were coming on board to support HEI. She promised the continued support of FRSC to reduce road crashes and urged members of the public to call the commission’s toll-free number during emergencies, instead of taking photographs and posting on social media. 