In spite of the interim order issued by Justice Lewis Allagoa of a Kano Federal High Court asking the All Progressives Congress (APC) to maintain status quo pending hearing of the suit on the leadership crisis brought before him, the party’s national secretariat yesterday remained under lock and key. The embattled national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who was billed to be at the national secretariat yesterday, could not gain access to his office as officers of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) took over the party’s secretariat, denying both staff and visitors access to the complex. This is even as political horse-trading on the fate of the national chairman continued into the weekend, with talks about who takes over the affairs of the party dominating secret meetings held by blocs within the party. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that there was a mild as some members of staff of the national chairman were turned back at the main entrance of the party’s national secretarial located at Blantyre Street. On approaching the gate of the secretariat, Oshiomhole’s aides who drove in a black tinted land cruiser Toyota Jeep were denied access to the place. Even after the workers had lowered the glass of the vehicle’s windows to identify themselves, they were still stopped from gaining entrance into the secretariat. They were later asked to move away from the gate of the secretariat. A source who spoke to LEADERSHIP Weekend in confidence said that the national chairman and some members of the National Working Committee (NWC) had also met with the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Muhammed Adamu, for several hours ostensibly to get police cover to gain access to the secretariat. At 4:20pm, a team from the Department of State Services (DSS) riding on five power bikes drove into the secretariat. At about an hour later, some DSS operatives also came in two black Hilux Vans, but the mission of the two teams who later left in a single convoy at 6:00pm was not immediately clear. As at 6:20pm on Friday, the APC secretariat was still sealed. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that on March 4, 2020, Justice Danlami Senchi, of a High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had ordered Oshiomhole to vacate office as the national chairman of the party immediately pending the hearing and determination of the suit challenging his continuous stay in office. Some party members had approached the court to seek his removal as the party chairman. After listening to arguments from parties in the case, in a short ruling, Justice Senchi held that the first and second respondents wrongfully kept Oshiomhole as the national chairman of the party. He urged the APC to desist from acknowledging him as the chairman of the party. But less than 24 hours after the ruling of Justice Senchi, the Federal High Court with the same powers as that of the Abuja High Court stopped Oshiomhole’s removal from office. Specifically, Justice Lewis Allagoa of the Federal High Court in Kano asked parties involved to “maintain the status quo ante bellum (the situation before the current state)” pending the court’s final decision. The judge gave the ruling following an application by one Aliyu Muhammadu Rabiu praying the court to stop the APC and INEC from effecting Oshiomhole’s suspension. Meanwhile, director-general of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh Lukman, has weighed in on the leadership crisis of the party, calling on the National Executive Committee (NEC) to immediately name an acting national chairman and also fill five vacant positions in the NWC. Lukman’s suggestion came in the aftermath of Wednesday’s order of an FCT High Court suspending the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and Thursday order of a Federal High Court in Kano nullifying his suspension by his Ward 10 Etsako executive members. Lukman in a statement issued in Abuja yesterday said, “First, pending the settlement of all the cases around Comrade Oshiomhole’s membership, we need to invoke provisions of Article 17 (vi) which provides that in the event of a vacancy, “the relevant party organ shall appoint another person to act in his place pending ratification by the National Convention or Congress. “The relevant party organ in this case may have to be the National Executive Committee (NEC). Given all the vacancies about six so far, National Chairman, Deputy National Chairman (South), Deputy National Chairman (North), National Vice Chairman (North West), National Secretary and National Auditor, who convene the NEC? This is where the organising, consultation and negotiating capacity of our leaders will be tested. Combinations of majority of the remaining members of the NWC in consultation with President Buhari, Governors, other party leaders who are leading members of the National Caucus can resolve all these issues and convene the NEC to appoint an Acting National Chairman. “With the appointment of an Acting National Chairman, the next would be to seek to invoke provisions of Article 25 A(i) of the APC constitution, which stipulate that the “National Convention of the Party shall be held once in Two (2) years at a date, venue and time to be recommended by the National Working Committee and approved by the National Executive Committee subject to the giving of statutory notice to Independent National Electoral Commission and at least fourteen (14) days notice given to members eligible to attend.” Already, this is the second year since the last Convention in 2018 where Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC was elected. What this means is that with or without our current challenges we are actually due for a National Convention.” Lukman also chided the party’s NWC, accusing the body of constituting itself into an unaccountable assembly of people with thuggish temperament. He continued: “The business of leaders will not be to intimidate party members to accept their positions. Somehow, this is the locus of all our challenges. Whether we want to accept it or not, we today found ourselves with the embarrassing situation whereby almost all the structures of the party have been frozen at all levels. This is certainly not the making of President Buhari. The only possible structure that appears to be meeting is the National Working Committee NWC, which is an administrative organ. “Even the NWC we are told that it is not united, so much that it could take decision on January 14, 2020 and the announcement of its decision will only ‘coincidentally’ come on March 4, 2020 shortly after Justice Senchi issued the order for interlocutory injunction. “This is all because members of the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC have constituted themselves into an unaccountable assembly with a thuggish temperament, which seek to browbeat every member of the party especially aspiring candidates into submission. “Sadly, some accounts of the management of the 2019 election process around selection of candidates produced some discomforting reports of corrupt practices of members of the Comrade Oshiomhole-led NWC. These are accounts that suggested that the process of candidates’ selection within the party is turned to stock broking in which the main stock is the party’s nomination to contest any of the elective positions. “Interestingly, now all the issues around the current challenges are being reduced to contestation for 2023 almost in a way that suggests may be the ‘stocks’ for 2023 have already been sold and therefore anyone that is complaining is doing so based on that prism. It is simply a case of judging the dynamics and other standpoints based on the 2023 mindset that appeared to be informed by expectations of projected ‘stock broking’ transactions”. Praising President Muhammadu Buhari for not interfering in the current travails of the party, Lukman, however, suggested that the only way out of the challenges facing Oshiomhole was to go back to his ward and reconcile with his people. He stated: “As a layman, it is important to ask the question, assuming in all of these, Comrade Oshiomhole remained as the National Chairman and proceeds to organise primary elections for Edo, Ondo and Anambra, how advantageous will that be to APC? Let us also assume for the purpose of analysis that undisputed candidates emerge from the primaries in which no one within the party is contesting the results. “Whether those undisputed candidates include Governors Godwin Obaseki of Edo State and Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu SAN of Ondo State is immaterial. The Zamfara and Bayelsa judicial cloud would appear to have already gathered with any opposition party led by PDP just positioned to harvest what will come with such clouds. “Given such reality, it will be foolhardy for any upright thinking politician to aspire to contest on the platform of the party with Comrade Oshiomhole as the National Chairman. The only possible remedy will be if Comrade Oshiomhole is able to humble himself and go back to the root cause of the problem and resolve it.”  Only Appeal Court Can Vacate Oshoimhole’s Suspension – SANs Meanwhile, some senior lawyers in the country yesterday argued that depite the ruling of a Federal High Court sitting in Kano on Thursday which set aside the order issued by an FCT High Court suspending Adams Oshiomhole from the party, the embattled national chairman of the APC remained suspended in the eyes of law. The Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs) who spoke separately to LEADERSHIP Weekend on the conflicting order handed on the same subject matter by the two courts of the same coordinate jurisdiction said only the Court of Appeal can vacate the order of the FCT High Court. They argued that when two courts of the same coordinate jurisdiction grant conflicting order on a matter, the first order in time prevails. The members of the inner bar called on the National Judicial Council (NJC) to subject the judge of a Federal High Court sitting in Kano to corporal disciplinary measures except it was proved that he has no knowledge of the order made by the Abuja High Court. The learned silks insisted that the judiciary should not let go the judge that placed himself in the position of an appellate court judge when he was not one. Such disciplinary measure shall serve as a lesson to other judges. President Muhammadu Buhari’s former lawyer, Chief Mike Ahamba (SAN), maintained that the first order given by the Abuja court in time prevails. “Oshiomhole’s suspension remains in the eye of law until it is vacated by the Court of Appeal. NJC has to discipline the Kano judge that sat as appellate court judge on the matter except he is discovered to be without knowledge of the first order. This is the time for NJC to act decisively’’, he said. Also lending his voice, another learned silk, Ahmed Raji (SAN), pointed out that it is a curious development which must be carefully handled since both are courts of coordinate jurisdiction. He said, “No one is superior to the other and the parties in both matters are not the same and not in the same jurisdiction.  The courts are also not the same.  There is only one court of appeal that sits in divisions all over the country. “Any division of the court of appeal should quickly intervene to save the situation. Meanwhile, pending such intervention, the status quo before all the disputes should prevail’’. On his part, Lagos based lawyer, Ebun-olu Adegboruwa (SAN), urged the judiciary to tread with caution in respect of political matter because of the wrong impression that it is creating in the minds of the general public that when a litigant approaches a court of law, he can easily get an injunction in one day. He said, “Can you file an appeal and the appeal can be heard in one day? When we lawyers who come to court know that, ordinarily, it takes two weeks before you get your case assigned, and for an appeal to be heard, it can take up to two months in ordinary cases. “So, I believe that courts of coordinate jurisdiction issu­ing different and inconsistent orders in respect of the same subject matter are opening up the judiciary to ridicule and it should be avoided. “I have not seen the details of these orders but if it is true that one court restrained him and another reinstates him in respect of the same case, it is quite worrisome. Our judges must be very careful not to expose them­selves to undue public ridicule”. Also, an Abuja-based legal practitioner, Ambi Timobere, warned that if care was not taken, the judiciary will soon become a laughing stock among the three arms of government. “How can two courts of coordinate jurisdiction give conflicting orders?  I must confess that I am worried over the way and manner courts of coordinate jurisdiction give orders that seem to be in conflict with one another. This development is not only confusing but bizarre’’, he said. Another constitutional lawyer, Barr Elvis Asia, said, “My view is that it is wrong to suspend the APC national chairman via an interlocutory order. However, the only way to set aside any order of court is to appeal against it, which has been done. “The second decision of the Federal High Court in Kano cannot set aside an order of the Abuja court and no attempt was made by that court in that regard contrary to the false reports everywhere. “In fact, the Kano court simply said parties should maintain status quo. The question of setting aside the earlier order was not before it. The question then is: what was the status quo at the time of the Kano court order?” Meanwhile, a lawyer, Andrew Emwanta, has petitioned the National Judicial Council (NJC) against Justice Lewis Allagoa of the Federal High Court in Kano, accusing alleged misconduct as a presiding judge. According to a petition, the interim order by justice Allagoa was hurriedly granted in favour of the defendants in the suit, less than 24 hours after Oshiomhole was stopped, by an injunction from Justice Danlami Senchi, from parading himself as APC national chairman. The petitioner stated that justice Allagoa’s ruling has inflicted a transitional crisis in the national headquarters of the APC. According to the lawyer, Justice Allagoa should not have granted the order because the initial order granted by the high court in Abuja was well publicised.