The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy (CISLAC) has said it is training lawmakers from four local government legislative assemblies in Ogoniland of Rivers State, to prepare them on how to handle conflicts that may arise during the ongoing clean-up exercise in the area. CISLAC programme manager, Salaudeen Hashimu, disclosed this yesterday in Port Harcourt, while speaking to newsmen at the end of a workshop on peace-building, conflict sensitivity and mitigation, which was organized in collaboration with the Youth and Environment Advocacy Centre (YEAC) and Forum of Ogoni Councillors (FOC). Hashimu said: “The event today was to do a follow-up on the Forum of Ogoni Councillors. We are trying to equip them with the knowledge of conflict sensitivity, peace-building and mitigation in relation with ongoing Ogoni clean-up. “We have discovered clearly that there are some challenges that may be recipe for conflict if urgents steps are not taken to remediate them. The councillors can serve as gate-keepers who can de-escalate the situation.” Declaring the workshop open, CISLAC Executive Director, Auwal Ibrahim Musa, said elected councillors can form synergy in order to resolve conflicts. Ibrahim, who was represented by the Director of Legal, Mr. Adesina Oke, said: “We had similar event last year and the turn-up was very impressive. One of the most significant thing that we expect to have today is to also see what progress we have been able to make from our previous engagement. “As councillors, you can resolve conflict; you can build a synergy where you meet to discuss issues that could lead to conflict and how to resolve such issues. “As honourable members, you have a high responsibility because you have been entrusted. Every other person have a right but they came together and have the rights to you to represent them. How are you representing them?” In his remarks, the YEAC Executive Director, Fyneface Dumneme Fyneface, lauded CISLAc for always sponsoring and supporting issues that has to do with the development of the Niger Delta region. Fyneface said: “On September 12, 2019, we were here discussing peace with the honourable councillors from Ogoniland. CISLAC sponsored and supported that programme. And when we approached you again this year, you agreed to sponsor and support us.” 