Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, on Monday visited communities in Igabi and Giwa local government areas that suffered fatal attacks by bandits on Sunday. The governor condoled the people of Kerawa, Zariyawa, Hashimawa, Wazata and other communities in Igabi and Giwa local government areas that were attacked. El-Rufai assured the people that there will be no negotiations with bandits, affirming that the proper response to the criminals is a sustained offensive by security agencies. El-Rufai, who expressed his sadness at the loss of lives, commended the security agencies for tracing and neutralizing the bandits. In a statement signed by Commissioner Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, the Governor said: “The situation is tragic, sad and pathetic. In this village alone 41 corpses were buried, according to the Imam. In the other villages two or three were attacked. Bandits attacked these villages, needlessly killed people and properties were destroyed. The security agencies were able to attack them both from the ground and air and most of the bandits were wiped out. “I am very grateful to the Nigerian Air Force, the Nigerian Army, Civil Defence, Nigeria Police, as well as the SSS for been vigilant. It’s sad that we have lost many lives, but it would have been worse if the security agencies had not responded quickly. We came here to condole with the people and appeal to them to be patient and cooperate with the security agencies. “As people placed in government the responsibility to protect these people lies squarely on my shoulders and my colleagues.” The Governor, who insisted that the government will not negotiate with bandits, said: “In Kaduna State, we have zero tolerance for bandits. We don’t give them amnesty we don’t negotiate with them; we asked the security agencies to just wipe them out. This banditry should be declared an insurgency and they should be fought in the same way as the Boko Haram. There’s no room for any negotiation or treaty, no room for negotiation with any bandits. “We are hoping that this banditry will end because the security agencies are taking the war to the bandits. We are doing our best and will continue. Our people need to be patient and continue to pray for us. Only God is perfect, I know the security agencies are doing their best.” Malam El-Rufai was accompanied on the condolence tour by the GOC, One Division Nigerian Army, Maj-Gen Faruk Yahaya, Commissioner of Police, Umaru Muri, Director of State Services, Idris Koya, Secretary to the State Government, Balarabe Abbas Lawal and other senior officials. 