Imo State governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, has put machineries in place to consolidate his administration towards sustainable development. This is as the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state also moves to consolidate grounds. EMMANUEL MGBEAHURUIKE reports. Upon the restoration of democracy in the country in 1999, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) which formed the federal government with former military Head of State – Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as president, was quite ubiquitous in Imo State and the entire southeast. Populated by the political heavy weights in the state with a renowned accountant, Chief Achike Udenwa as governor, the party not only bestroded the state like a colossus, but tremendously aroused the political consciousness of the average Imo electorate who saw the need for active participation in the nation’s electoral process. Having driven the opposition into political oblivion, the party later commenced a comprehensive grassroots transformation which indeed imbued greater percentage of the people with a sense of belonging in governance. Curiously, the body of the once dreaded redoubtable rock of gibralta later began to crack – no thanks to persistent intra-party squabbles which mostly reared its ugly head at the twilight days of the preparations for the 2007 general elections. The bone of contention was the issue of who would succeed Chief Achike Udenwa as governor in line with the Charter of Equity which rotates the governorship seat among the three zones of Imo East (Owerri zone), Imo West (Orlu zone) and Imo North (Okigwe zone). Udenwa is from Orlu zone and Owerri zone having produced the late Chief Evan Enwerem as governor, all agreed in unison that the exalted office should go to Imo North (Okigwe zone). With an unquenchable interest in the gubernatorial race, a two time senator from the zone (Imo North) and a major financier of the party, Ifeanyi Godwin Araraume was to engage the party in a fierce running battle which the major pillars of the party resisted – a situation that eventually paved the way for ex-governor Ikedi Ohakim of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA) to clinch power on the platter of Gold. Ohakim was allegedly foisted on the party by Udenwa and his teeming political disciples who for inexplicable reasons vowed never to have anything to do with the Araraume governorship project. Ohakim who later defected to the PDP had his second term ambition aborted in 2011 when Owelle Rochas Anayo Okorocha emerged like a dark horse in the governorship ring on the platform of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA). Relying heavily on his past goodwill to the people of the state mainly through his Rochas Foundation College which offers scholarship to bright but indigent students, Okorocha who hails from Ogboko, in the Ideato South council area of the state with the backing of the electorate effectively dislodged Ohakim from the Olympian height of power. Invariably, Okorocha ostensibly guided by intuition and visions later dumped the APGA that brought him to power and embraced a nascent political configuration – the All Progressives Congress (APC). Undaunted by the initial outcry that trailed his action, the businessman turned politician remained resolute and single handed solidified and entrenched the party in the political psyche of the people. As the Alpha and Omega in the broom wielding party, the former governor, now senator for Imo West (Orlu) made incursions in other states of the South East where the APC was previously dreaded and despised as an anathema. Until, the commencement of preparations for the 2019 general elections, Okorocha operated the party like an Army general in a war front whose words and orders were unchallengeable by his troop. In an irony of fate, the crises that rocked the PDP and which ultimately sang its numc dimitis in 2011 was to equally consume the APC last year following Okorocha’s insistence on imposing his son-in-law Uche Nwosu on the people as his successor. The fierce resistance by the party hierarchy to this inevitably polarized the party into 2 diametrically opposed antagonistic camps – thus giving birth to a coalition led by Senator Hope Uzodinma, now governor of the state. Although he ran for the senatorial election on the platform of the APC, Okorocha was to move Uche Nwosu and his die-hard supporters to the fledging Action Alliance (AA) where he (Nwosu) eventually picked party’s governorship ticket and ran for the election, just as Uzodinma who was the party’s favourite equally faced the gubernatorial competition. Chief Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP who was declared winner by INEC was to face a legal battle waged by the aggrieved parties and which finally came to an end on Tuesday 14th January 2019 when the Supreme Court in a unanimous judgment voided the election of Chief Ihedioha and declared Uzodinma the winner of the 9th March 2019 governorship election in the state. The crash of Ihedioha and the ascendancy of Uzodinma to power has since opened a new chapter in the political colouration of the state. Investigation by LEADERSHIP revealed that the APC which, during and after the election was a house divided against itself has since reconciled their differences and is now one political family. To be sure, Senator Okorocha who was a principal rabid opponent of Uzodinma during the election not only congratulated the latter on his victory at the Supreme Court, but also witnessed his swearing-in at the Hero’s Square in Owerri along with his teeming supporters who chanted solidarity songs for Uzodinma. Chief Chidi Ibeh – a close associate of Okorocha and a former commissioner of Information said “as you can see, the state has been calm since the Supreme Court ruling and the people are happy. The victory of Senator Uzodinma is a good thing to the APC. We are now one family and there is no division again in our party. I can assure you that with Senator Hope Uzodinma, Imo will witness an unprecedented development and transformation because Uzodinma has the capacity to deliver”. In the same vein, Chief Romanus Egbuladike (Sir White) – a chieftain of the APC and close ally of Okorocha said “yes, there is definitely going to be a re-alignment. As you know Owelle (Okorocha) and his men all witnessed the inauguration of the governor and it shows that all the APC members are now one and there are no more factions. Hope is my governor and I have to give him 100 percent support even though I did not work for him”. It is alleged by a source that both Senator Ifeanyi Araraume and Uche Nwosu had already collapsed their structures into that of the APC while a good number of members of the state House of Assembly have initiated measures to defect to the APC. Already, the private residences of Okorocha, Uzodinma and Araraume have virtually become a political pilgrimage as politicians seeking one favour or the other from the new government troop there daily. What however appears to be a cog in the wheel of the rapprochement venture is the modality for sharing of principal offices. The Uzodinma camp having demonstrated absolute loyalty and support to their principal when it mattered most are said to insist on having upper hands – a position which Okorocha and Araraume  are not in a hurry to acquiesce. Aside this, an unseen hand from Abuja is reportedly leading the reconciliation mission among the warring parties. This, according to an insider  is  to paper the cracked  halls and  to avoid  exposing  the new government  to public hate, contempt  and disdain, moreso as not a few indigenes want  Uzodinma to distance  himself from Okorocha and Araraume. Some of those desperate to be part of the Uzodinma government are reportedly reaching out to powerful traditional rulers, contractors and business moguls to have the ears  of the governor  to realize their dream. The governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma in his quest to consolidate his administration has put machinery in place by naming commissioners in the state. This many perceive as the right step in the right direction as expectedly his core loyalists made the bulk of the list. With the naming of the commissioners the stage is said for governance as the governor has released the road map of his administration to the nominees. However, the governor sounded a note of warning to the various commissioner nominees indicating that his administration will not tolerate corruption of any  kind as anyone found culpable will be handed over to the EFCC. Senator Uzodinma, warned  political appointees to shun all forms of corruption and administrative ineptitude, saying that those who breach his mantra of zero tolerance to corruption will be handed over to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for prosecution. “You must buy into my vision of zero tolerance to corruption, live by it and any of you found guilty of corruption, will have himself or herself to blame”. The governor gave the warning when he declared open a 3-day retreat which had the theme, “Re-Engineering Imo towards sustainable development – a collective action” organized for his Exco members and other top government officials of the state held in Owerri. Senator Uzodinma regretted that the state had continued to retard in growth and in development as a result of bad leaders, who he said suffered from poverty of visions. He said that his famous recovery, rehabilitation and reconstruction must be pursued with vigour. “You have been chosen purely on your individual merits amidst thousands of others who are equally qualified to serve the state and therefore I will not hesitate to remove any of you found guilty of non-performance”. The governor, who equally frowned at the rots going on in the state’s civil service charged those who shamelessly promoted the ghost workers syndrome in government establishment to desist forthwith or be prepared to face the music, if caught. “There should be sacrifice, prudent management of our lean resources and all sources of financial leakages must be stopped because it is no longer going to be business as usual”. The governor however charged his appointees to shun corruption, embrace the 3R mantra of his administration, namely: Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Recovery, and to work assiduously to achieve results or be ready to be shown the way out. “Let me make it abundantly clear that my government has zero tolerance for corruption. Anyone of you involved in corrupt practice will not only be removed from office, but will be handed over to the relevant security agencies for prosecution. I am aware that some government officials are already tinkering with the idea of circumventing due process in the conduct of government business. Let me reiterate that anyone caught will be a sure candidate for the EFCC,” the governor said. The governor reminded the commissioners designate, special advisers and senior special assistants that they were appointed on merit as “Team New Imo” and apostles of shared prosperity. He urged them to shun corruption and show commitment to duty and loyalty to Imo people and his government. Governor Uzodimma admonished them to jettison their personal relationships with him as time now is for governance, not friendship, stating that they were selected from among so many qualified persons on their individual merit. “You must consider yourself really privileged to have made the list of the New Imo Team. I painstakingly chose each and everyone of you on merit based on your commendable pedigree and commitment to our struggle…. To retain the membership will depend on tenacious commitment to duty, result – driven performance, manifest honesty and undiluted and undeletable loyalty to Imo people and my administration.” The Imo chief executive who reiterated that he was focused on anchoring healthy policies aimed at eradicating poverty, enhancing productivity, providing quality education, security of lives and property, among other dividends of democracy, called for sacrifices and maximum dedication”. Governor Uzodimma disclosed that the retreat intended to properly align the appointees with the policy objectives of his government so that they can hit the ground running as members of one team. While tasking the New Imo Team on commitment to duty, the governor said: “You are automatically the apostles of the shared prosperity agenda which is the mainstay of the vision of my administration.” He noted that Imo State has lost so much ground as a result of selfish and inept leadership of the past. Governor Uzodimma stated, “Truth to tell, Imo State has not been very fortunate with visionary leadership for many years now. I intend to break that jinx with our well mapped out manifesto which is anchored on the 3Rs of this administration, which are Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Recovery. These are lucidly outlined in my maiden broadcast of January 20, where I outlined the policy/manifesto of my administration to include, economy, bureaucracy, education, good governance and security.” 