Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, and Chief Promoter, Olokun Festival Foundation (OFF), Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams has said, this year’s edition of the Eledumare Festival will promote the nation’s cultural tourism. The monarch who spoke at the unveiling of the Festival programmes, he said, apart from expressing gratitude to the almighty God who has helped the people to sustain the ideas of the Olokun festival foundation for the past 18 years , they would be making a case for cultural rebirth and transformation this year. He said, ‘’Eledumare Festival is one of the festivals we celebrate annually as part of the festivals in the annual calendar of the foundation. This year event is the 9th edition and it promises to be exciting. “For 21 days, we shall be engaging the public in our various activities. Some of the activities organized for each of the 21 day programme includes Taekwando competition, Fashion show, Table Tennis competition, Ayo Olopon, Beach soccer, a special football game, and Harvest of Praise. ‘’Also, we shall be visiting motherless babies home, the blind Peoples home, old peoples home, the Widows, Nike Arts Gallery, and other notable places. And for this festival alone, there will be photo exhibition, Yoruba Quiz competition, cultural display and festival float, which heralds the grand finale’’. “As we move from one state to another to celebrate these festivals, we are also using the platform to pass a strong message of hope, using the festivals to sell the tourism potentials of our race to all the Southwest and the world. ‘’I am delighted to tell you today that till this present moment, we are part of the Osun Osogbo Festival’s success story. We are also part of the Lisabi Festival’s success story, and we will continue to join the traditional institutions in the southwest to reclaim the lost glory of the Yoruba race. ‘’It is my belief, though, that we owe the Yoruba nation the sacred duty to contribute our efforts to ensure that the Yoruba race remains the leading race among all races. It is sad that foreign culture had been entrenched in all facets of our lives. And sadly too, this had done more harm to us than good. But we need to change this narrative.’’ 