A wide gap was recently noticed during the ward congresses conducted by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), particularly in the southern zone of Taraba State, writes JOHN MKOM. The southern zone of the state has governor Darius Ishaku as the seating governor of Taraba State, the Senate Deputy Minority Leader Sen. Emmanuel Bwacha, two members of house of representatives and seven members of the state House of Assembly. LEADERSHIP Sunday reliably gathered that the sharp division during the party’s congresses was between the Sen. Bwacha’s group and the group behind Governor Darius Ishaku. The two are believed to be fighting strongly to decide who owns the party and subsequently produce the next leadership of the party after the tenure of the current PDP state chairman Victor Bala Kona who is due to vacate the office come April 26th 2020. Governor Ishaku is believed to be enjoying the support of the state executive of PDP, while Sen. Bwacha is heavily being supported by a member of the house of representative and six other members of the state House of Assembly from the southern zone. It was gathered that Victor Bala Kona who is due to vacate the office soon is also having his eagle eyes on a serious political position come 2023, a development that makes him more comfortable to align with Governor Ishaku to produce a favorable executive so as to have a soft landing during primaries that would produce candidates for the 2023 general elections. LEADERSHIP Sunday check during the wards congresses revealed that the two members of the Taraba State House of Assembly Hon. Mark Bako Useni, member representing Takum II and his counterpart Hon. Ajiya Samson, member representing Takum I, were conspicuously absent during the wards Congresses. Takum is the home local government of Governor Darius Ishaku. In Donga local government area of southern Taraba, Hon. Douglas Ndatse, who is the majority leader of the state House of Assembly and one of the foot soldiers of the governor, was fully on ground to monitor the congress activities while Sen. Bwacha who is also from Donga local government, was seen working around to take note of irregularities without being in charge of the congress as usual. The two members of the state House of Assembly from Wukari, Hon. Pius Sabo representing Wukari I and Hon. Josiah John Aji Wukari II, were vehemently ignored and denied access to the committee that came to conduct the congress within the Wukari local government area. It was also on record that the PDP in the state earlier conspicuously conducted the wards congresses without the knowledge of the  Bwacha group, the group protested to the national headquarters of the party, it took intervention of the national chairman of the party who ordered for fresh congresses in the state. “After the official complaints by the Bwacha’s group, Governor Ishaku was able to call both parties together for a meeting in Abuja, where it was resolved that all the party members should come back and conduct all inclusive wards congresses in the state,” a source told LEADERSHIP in confidence. Sen. Emmanuel Bwacha when contacted for comment on the process of the congress, confirmed to LEADERSHIP Sunday that there was parallel PDP congresses in Taraba State. Bwacha who spoke through mobile phone said there were issues of parallel conduct of congresses in Taraba, but the party is handling it internally. “Yes, there were issues, we had parallel congresses but you know, they are family issues therefore we are handling it internally,” Bwacha stated. The former speaker Taraba State House of Assembly and member representing Takum II Hon. Mark Bako Useni, while commenting on the congress confirmed that he was absent at the venue of the meeting that produced the ward leaders of the PDP within Takum local government area. Useni said it would take a process to undergo before the list of PDP ward leaders will be accepted. “It is not my personal responsibility to confirm if the list that was produced by the congress committee is authentic, there were procedures on how to conduct congresses and that must be followed to know if there were congresses or not that shall be done at appropriate time. For now, I might have nothing much to say,” Useni stated. The Publicity Secretary of PDP Taraba State chapter, Alhaji Ininwa Bakari while speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday, said the state chairman of the party Hon. Victor Bala Kona has brought sanity in the party and deliberate actions to stop imposition of party leadership on the locals, a development he said so many party stewards were not comfortable with. Bakari said the era when party elites were allowed to seat in their comfort zones to write names of elected positions is far gone in the state chapter of PDP. He said there were official complaints by some aggrieved members of the party earlier when the first ward congresses were conducted. “The governor invited all of them from both parties in Abuja and resolved all the issues, another meeting was held here in Jalingo where it was resolved that new congresses should be conducted. “We went into the congress and the party chairman insisted that every party member has a voice on who should be elected at the ward level, that was why in areas where they could not reach consensus we went into elections” “Whoever is aggrieved has to go to the appeal panel which is already on ground in the state.” Efforts to talk to the PDP appeal panel that was sent to receive petition cases on the recent concluded congresses failed, as the appeal committee were not found at the state party secretariat nor at the usual places where the party is known to conduct its affairs. With the curent situation of the party in the state, it is obvious that some of the high profile members of the party have already filed their official complaints to the national secretariat of the party and are waiting for resolutions before the local government congresses come March 29.