UMAR MOHAMMED captures the intrigues around the prolonged legal tussle for the governorship and other elective positions in Zamfara State, which was recently put to rest by the Supreme Court. The long and winding legal tussle over the governorship, National Assembly and the House of Assembly seats in Zamfara State came to an end last week. The Supreme Court dismissed the application for judicial review filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state led by former governor Abdullaziz Yari against Senator Kabiru Marafa and 179 others. In a lead judgment delivered by Justice Inyang Okoro, the apex court held that the application was a vexatious, frivolous and gross abuse of court process. The court awarded the cost of N2m to be paid by the applicant to the 1st to 140th respondents. Justice Okoro further held that the apex court lacks the jurisdiction to entertain an application seeking a review of its own judgment as the finality of the judgment of the Supreme Court is sealed and cannot be reviewed under any guise. But in a dissenting ruling, Justice Centus Nweze, disagreed with other members of the panel as he upheld the application of the APC. Nweze insisted that it was better to admit an error instead of justifying an error that fails to represent justice. He added that the Supreme Court could reverse itself. Justice Nweze further insisted that the judgment of the court favors the PDP who was not a party to the suit in the first place and ordered the setting aside the earlier judgment of the court. The tussle had raised lots of dust, amid an intense battle between the incumbent governor, Bello Mattawalle of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and his predecessor, Abdullaziz Yari of the All Progressives Congress (APC). But the legal tussle was a fallout of the crisis within the APC between factions loyal to Yari and Senator Kabiru Marafa. Yari and Marafa had in the build up to the 2019 general elections in the state been locked in a battle for who controls the matter culminating in different primaries. Yari the outgoing governor was bent on installing his successor and heading to the Senate while Marafa, a serving senator at the time, was aspiring to emerge governor. The crisis was further deepened over the conflicting signal of the national body of the party on the pattern of primaries to be adopted. The party had earlier insisted on direct primaries which were resisted by governors, who preferred the delegate system. After much debate, the party later gave the green light for state chapters to adopt either the direct or delegate system. At this point, Yari had fallen out with the Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). However the crisis stalled the primary as supporters of Yari and Marafa clashed over the exercise on different occasions. Marafa had subsequently warned that the party would not be able to present candidates for 2019 if the leadership of the APC did not call Yari to order. As events unfolded, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) decided not to accept the list of candidates of APC in Zamfara State because the party’s inability to conduct primary election before deadline. INEC also rejected the appeal of the leadership of the party which argued that it had the right to present candidates. Oshiomhole had challenged the action of the commission, saying it was incorrect to state that primaries did not hold in Zamfara State. While he admitted that there was violence when the NWC of the party went to Zamfara for the exercise, Oshiomhole said the primaries took place but there was no voting. He had accused INEC of been  unfair to the APC, saying the PDP in Kano state did not conduct primary yet the commission did not take any action against the party. After the bid to make INEC changed its stance did not achieve the desired result, some supporters of the APC headed to the court. A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja upheld the decision of INEC. But Zamfara State High Court issued conflicting orders relating to the participation of the Zamfara state APC in the election. While the Abuja High Court barred APC in the state from fielding candidates, the Zamfara State High Court ruled that the party should field candidates. Nevertheless, INEC relisted the APC on the ballot following the judgement of the court of appeal which set aside the ruling of the Abuja High court. The commission said, “In the case of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State, the Federal High Court, Abuja and the Zamfara State High Court issued conflicting orders relating to the participation of the APC in the two strands of elections scheduled for 23rd February and 9th March 2019. “While the former ruled that the APC, having failed to conduct party primaries cannot field candidates in the said election, the latter decided that it can field candidates having conducted valid party primaries. “However, the Court of Appeal, Abuja Judicial Division on 21st February 2019 set aside the judgment of the Federal High Court, Abuja for ‘lack or want of jurisdiction on the part of the lower court.’ This in effect means that the Zamfara State High Court’s decision that the APC can field candidates for the National Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly elections is the only valid and subsisting order.” So the party contested and won in Zamfara but that was not the end of the story.  Legal Fireworks Last week’s verdict was an offshoot of previous appeals seeking review on the apex court verdict, a pattern that emerged after the 2019 elections. The Supreme Court had in its judgement delivered on March 24, 2019, issued a consequential order that next in highest votes be declared as winner of the 2019 election in Zamfara State as the votes scored by the APC were wasted in light of the fact that had no candidates in the polls. The Supreme Court verdict had thrown the supporters of the APC in Yari’s camp into disarray and confusion as it affected all positions contested for in the state by the APC, including governorship, National Assembly and State Assembly. Not satisfied with the outcome of an earlier verdict which sacked his faction of the APC, Yari had filed an application for the review of the judgement. Meanwhile, INEC responded to the Supreme Court consequential order and declared the candidates of PDP as winners of the governorship and National Assembly, as well as the State Assembly with exception of one state constituency of Dansadau where a candidate of National Rescue Movement (NRM) won. Declaration of the PDP as the winner generated serious legal debate on the pages of newspapers and social media on either support or against the Supreme Court judgement. Soon after inauguration of Matawalle as governor, the former governor started clamouring for the review of the judgement having lost his seat at the Senate. He eventually filed a fresh application seeking for review of the Supreme Court judgement by the court itself. That was the second time the application by the APC for a review came before the apex court. When the matter first came up on July 29, 2019, the apex court rejected the application. A five-man panel of the court, led by Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour, in a ruling early on Monday, struck out the application marked: SC/377/2019 filed by the APC, seeking a review of the judgment. The court rejected an effort by the counsel to the APC, Robert Clarke (SAN), to take a second look at the decision given earlier this year. The decision was handed down by the apex court on July 29, 2019. Reacting to the ruling, the lead counsel to the appellant, Robert Clarke, said the decision of the court was based on technicalities, stressing that the merits of his application were not looked into. He added that he would tighten the loose ends that the judgment pointed out and submit his application again. Counsel to Marafa lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome, said the application seeking for review of the Zamfara  was ded on arrival. The call for review of the Supreme Court judgement had generated concern within and outside the judiciary with prominent condemnation coming from immediate past president of the Court of Appeal, Justice Zainab Adamu Bulkachuwa, who described recent moves by some senior lawyers to get the Supreme Court to review its judgements as unconstitutional. Justice Bulkachuwa described the development as unfortunate, insisting that “it is a threat to the judiciary as a whole.” The eminent jurist said asking the “Supreme Court to review its judgements was unconstitutional. It’s not the law.” She challenged those that disagree with her on the issue to point to the section of any law that back up their action. The review matter had created serious anxiety in the state as people remained divided with high hope of victory. At least in all the hearings, the Zamfara politicians across the board flooded Abuja, to demonstrate support for their camps. After, series of hearing of the application, where Counsel to Yari’s APC, Chief Robert Clarke and that of Marafa’s counsel, Chief Mike Ozekhome submitted their briefs, the apex court, shocked everyone in court by refusing to disclose the adjourned date instantly but rather kept the disputing parties in suspense by reserving the judgement  date to itself. Surprisingly, the apex court, released a terse notice that, the Zamfara APC review case was billed for ruling on Friday 27, 2020. Though, the coronavirus crisis hampered mass movement of people from the state. However, the message was all over the social media on the expected outcome of the ruling. To the disappointment of the supporters of the APC in the former governor’s faction, the Supreme Court dismissed the application out rightly. Reacting, a lecturer in the History department of the Federal University, Gusau, Anas Sani Anka said, “I will not bother myself in talking too much about the review application filed by the Yari faction of the APC before the Supreme Court because I have raised it time and time again that, the issue regarding Zamfara verdict of May 24 2019 is a “done deal”. He emphasised that, the position of Justice Amina Augie regarding the finality of the Supreme Court would hardly change because the Supreme Court is not an extension of Yari’s factional APC but rather a creation of law. “Again, I was happy that there was dissenting judgment which upheld the position of Yari regarding the erroneous consequential order because it defines the beauty of democracy but notwithstanding my position which seems to be the majority stand has been vindicated and at least the matter of whether Yari has a case to be considered in the review application or not has been laid to rest”, he added. He nonetheless added, “My intellectual warning to Governor Matawalle is to exercise a political restraint for now in welcoming the APC defectors into his ruling party or in the alternative hand over the whole defection matter to the Mallaha led State Working Committee of the PDP to handle. “The governor should be more concern with the strategies of reviving Zamfara state and also secure it for some interested investors,” he said. Also commenting on the issue, chairman Northern Youths Assembly, (NYA) Manir Haidara lauded the firmness of the judiciary. He described the act of review as being very serious to the judicial system, as any attempt to review supreme court ruling would create confusion  and crisis in the judiciary. “The rejection of the application for review clearly indicates the independence of judiciary, in spite  of the influence of the ruling APC, but judiciary refused to succumb”, he added. He added, “On the other hand, as members of the civil society organisations, we would continue to track the activities of the governor and his team and challenge them meritoriously where we think they erred so that positive things can be done for the transformation of Zamfara.” Haidara however, said with the dismissal of the case, the government should now focus on the educational and agricultural development and harnes other areas of the economy to move the state forward. Reacting to the Supreme Court  ruling, Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle said that the dismissal of APC application for review was victory to the entire people of Zamfara State. In a state wide broadcast, Matawalle said he owed his victory to the love and resilience of the people in the state as the 10 month continuous challenge to his victory in court lasted. He further extended a hand of fellowship to his opponents, saying that it is time to shun political bitterness and join hands with the government to move the state forward. The governor who dedicated the victory to the good people of Zamfara State said the verdict has indeed strengthened his administration’s resolve and commitment to deliver good governance to the people. He however added that all acts or statements capable of sabotaging the peace and security efforts in the state would not be condoned. Matawalle also hailed the Supreme Court justices and the judiciary as a whole, ”for being the champions and guardians of our democracy,” adding that their ”doggedness in ensuring justice and fair play has succeeded in putting to shame many of Nigeria’s enemies of democracy and good governance.” The governor said “As we all know, the essence of politics is to serve the people. If those in the opposition truly share this perspective, it is time for them to shun political bitterness and join hands with the government to move the State forward. “As we open a new chapter in our journey to move Zamfara State forward, we shall maintain zero tolerance to all acts of mischief capable of derailing our administration from its mission. All acts or statements capable of sabotaging our peace and security efforts would not be condoned.” He added that, “Allah, in His infinite wisdom, has granted us yet another resounding victory. The Supreme Court has again lived to its good reputation by giving a historic verdict that finally put to rest the quest by these fair-weather politicians to return our dear State back to the dark years of the past. ”I dedicate this victory to the good people of Zamfara State who prayed day and night for this victory and all the victories we have had. This victory is therefore for all true sons and daughters of Zamfara State who desire its progress. ”Today’s verdict has indeed strengthened our resolve and commitment to deliver good governance to our people. We shall continue with our current efforts of securing Zamfara State and transforming it in all facets of human life. “I appeal to our people to remain calm. As peace-loving, I appeal to you not to resort to any act inimical to peace and tranquility of the State. Conversely, We should all thank Almighty Allah for this victory by rededicating ourselves to obedience to His injunctions at all times.” The governor, who noted that it is time to face the various issues of development of the state with a greater vigour, added this is not a time for settling political scores but for renewal of determination to do right to all manner of people of the state. He recalled that during his inaugural address of 29th May 2019, he called on all citizens of Zamfara State, irrespective of their political leanings, to accept his victory as an act of Almighty Allah and join hands with his administration to build a secure, peaceful, and prosperous Zamfara State. While adding that he set out to have an all-inclusive administration, he stressed his surprise that “some elements within the political circle decided right from day one to do all they could to frustrate our administration. “These unscrupulous politicians resorted to all manner of intrigues ranging from inflammatory statements capable of further degenerating the already fragile security situation to court litigations capable of distracting our administration from our mission of people-oriented governance,” he said. Also, speaking on the Supreme Court outcome, former governor, Abdul Aziz Yari said they have now accepted the verdict. He urged APC supporters to take the apex court’s verdict in good faith and remain calm and law abiding. Supporters of the PDP and the APC faction of Sen Kabir Mafara have been in joyful mode while some of the key figures in the Yari’s faction either fled the state or went into hiding to avoid attack or molestation. The task before the governor and the state is herculean to say the least. While he has been dealing with the arm banditry since he took over office he now has to deal with the coronavirus pandemic for which he has initiated a lockdown in the state. But besides these are the challenges of improving the quality of education, providing infrastructure and ensuring improvement in human capital index in the state which requires a lot of work in a state that ranks not too favourably on indexes of development in the country. Many pundits believe that he cannot afford to be distracted. 