In line with the army’s policy of keeping its troops physically fit and combat ready at the 82 Division of the Nigerian army, Chief of Army Staff COAS, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai in Calabar declared activities marking the 2020 inter-Brigade sports competition open. Addressing the 245 soldiers involved in the competition at the UJ. Esuene in Calabar, COAS who is being represented at the event by the General Officer Commanding GOC 82 Division, Nigeria Army,Maj. Gen. Lasisi Adegboye, charged participants not to engaged themselves in acts that will mare the success of the competition, but abide by the rules of the game. “In view of the aforesaid, participants are to display high level of competitive spirit in a healthy environment. “The officials are hereby urged to uphold the best practices and to be guided always by existing guidelines”. The GOC advised. The army boss urged the panel of judges to ensure that prompt attention is given to protest for transparency so that they can guide against biased out comes. “On that note,I have the singular honor to declare the 82 Division Inter-Brigade Sports competition 2020 open”. The army boss said. In his remarks, the Commander, 13 Brigade, Lt Gen.Thamos Olatoye, charged the participants who are drawn from 5 formations and other establishments under the command of Headquarters 82 Division to take the competition serious. The the 5 competing teams for the competition includes, team A, made up of 13 Brigade/Amphibious training school Calabar, Team B, 14 brigade Ohafia/ Nigeria Army Language School, whereas teach C made up of 34 Artillery Brigade Owerri/302 Artillery and General Support Regiment Onitsha,team D, made up of 44 Engineering Brigade/ 54Signal Support Brigade Enugu while the last team is made up of 82 Division Garrison Enugu/ 103 Battalion/82 Records office Abakalike. The ceremony which began with football match between soldiers of the 13 Brigade versus soldiers of 14 Brigade Ohafia,Abia State, ended up with 13 Brigade defeating their 14 brigade counter with 1 goal to zero.