At a stakeholders forum on local barite development organised in Abuja recently, the federal government unveiled its strategy towards boosting barite production in the country, part of which is to ban importation of the commodity in the long run. ABAH ADAH reports: Barite, whose abundance in Nigeria is of no doubt, is one of the most essential industrial minerals, whose 80 to 90 per cent usage is for oil drilling mud weighting agent. Thus, the petroleum sector of the oil rich Nigeria consumes a lot. However, International Oil Companies (IOCs) in the country have been depending largely on imported barite in carrying out their activities. According to the practice now, barite is  imported together with other chemicals used in drilling as ‘mud’ by the IOCs through ‘mud contracts’ given out to oil servicing companies. In his address at the Stakeholders Forum on Local Barite Development in Nigeria recently held in Abuja, courtesy of the World Bank assisted Mineral Sector Support for Diversification (MINDIVER) project of the ministry, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite, disclosed that as part of the strategy towards boosting the production and processing of barite locally in line with the economic diversification agenda of the federal government, importation of barite may be banned in the long run. The Minister noted that the ban is to be effected once the local market is satisfied, while export of barite to other countries where oil and gas drilling activities are taking place will commence. “To meet our overarching objective, we have mapped out a development strategy towards creating a sustainable industry in Nigeria to support, regulate and monitor stakeholders along the Barite value chain. “This process will assist local companies with proven reserves that meet the industry standards to develop capacity and close the demand/supply gap that exists in the country currently in the short term. “The long term plan is to place a ban on the importation of Barite once the local market is satisfied and, export Barite to other African countries where oil and gas drilling activities are taking place. This will create job opportunites and boost the nation’s revenue base,” he said. Adegbite noted that in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s vision for a more diversified, inclusive, and sustainable economy, the federal government initiated bold mining sector reforms that would deliver the objectives of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) in restoring growth, investing in our people and building a globally competitive economy. He said determined to achieve the objective, the ministry facilitated the development of an industrial mineral roadmap aimed at optimsing Nigeria’s industrial minerals to meet the standards of the manufacturing, industrial, and construction industry and to reduce import dependency. According to him, the road map delineated seven key minerals for quick development of which barite is one. Worried that the country has barite in commercial quantity and still imports the commodity, the Minister said, “From our recent demand/gap analysis shows that out of the total value of Nigeria’s industrial minerals imports in 2016, barite represented 3.6 %.   The country spends millions of hard earned dollars every year importing barite, a mineral we are abundantly endowed with in the northern part of the country. With each import of barite we are shipping thousands of jobs from our country to other countries.” The Minister who noted that barite is produced in the country, said the excuses have been that it is of low quality. “So there is need to produce barite that would meet international standards,” he cautioned. Earlier in his welcome address, the Minister of State, Dr Uchechukwu Ogah who expressed the hope that the workshop will go a long way towards addressing issues impeding the successful local production of the industrial mineral, even as it is abundant in the country. Presenting an overview of barite development in Nigeria, a consultant on Barite development, Dolapo Lagunju, said the expected consumption of barite in 2020 in the country is about 270, 000 metric tonnes worth about US$96 million. On his part, the President, Association of Miners and Processors of Barite (AMAPOB), Chief Stephen Alao, said the problem of the barite sub-sector has largely been policy inconsistency of government and the focus on importation of the product over the years. He said Nigeria has the commodity in large quantity and high quality that beats international standards. Few months ago, when the Minister, Arc. Adegbite met with a delegation of Nigerian barite miners, under the aegis of AMAPOB, led by Alao, who complained that the importation of the mineral alongside other chemicals as mud had kept them out of business. Responding to this then, Adegbite, who promised to take up the miners’ request with President Muhammadu Buhari, said the government could unbundle barite from the mud contracts through an Executive Order or a relevant legislation so that the mineral could be priced and acquired as a separate item instead of importing the mineral as a component of drilling mud with other chemicals used in oil exploration. How far that has gone is what is not clear at the moment. He also insisted then that the miners would have to prove that they had the capacity to match the international price of barite and supply the demand of the IOCs. This is not the first attempt at stopping the importation of barite into the country. Between 2003  and 2014, Nigeria had banned  imports of barite (and bentonite) in an effort to stimulate development and use of domestic barite resources, which was met with some success, although not to be for too long as supply shortages did not entice the local producers to the oilfield service majors who claimed that local production struggled to meet API specifications as well as desired volumes. A report submitted to the government in 2013 by the Committee on Waiver of the Ban on Import of Barite and Bentonite revealed that Nigeria had a shortfall of 31,318.65 tonnes of barite, against domestic demand requirements of 70,590 tonnes. The committee put the domestic production level of barite at 39,181.35 tonnes. According to  reports, Nigerian barite imports in 2015 totalled 17,406 tonnes, mainly sourced from China, the USA, the UK, and the Netherlands. This figure slightly exceeded the import total of 2002, while with the exception of 13,678 tonnes imported in 2012, the period 2003-2014 saw negligible import volumes as the ban was in place.