An indigenous energy firm, Blue Seal Group, at the weekend laid a multimillion dollar foundation for local production of chemicals that will be used to advance petroleum products production across the downstream value chain and enhance production processes in the manufacturing sector as well as the agriculture industry. The plant located at the Lagos Free Zone, will support chemical demands for production and servicing of the multibillion dollar Dangote refineries and petrochemical industries in Lagos state. The managing director and chief executive officer of the company, Deji Adetula, said the company said the company is a wholly indigenous firm that provides professional and bespoke chemical solutions across various industries and has fully ventured into Specialty Chemical manufacturing space including oilfield chemicals, downstream chemicals, heavy industries and middle chemicals. Adetula, said chemicals to be produced will help in expanding exploration in Nigeria’s mining sector. The plant will help boost barite exploration, bentonite, caustic and calcium chloride, and chemical productions like emulsion breakers, water clarifiers, scale inhibitors, paraffin inhibitors, corrosion inhibitors among others. He explained that the idea of establishing the plant is to reduce huge foreign exchange in chemical importation, in which the company in particular spend $5 million annually to import chemicals to service the oil and manufacturing sectors. According to World Bank, Nigeria in 2019 alone imported chemicals to the tune of $1.4 billion. He said the country stands to benefit from the investment as the plant when it begins operations in the next 36 months will help improve access to industrial chemicals to boost local production, support current administrations campaign for indigenous production of goods and services, create secondary industry and indirect jobs for suppliers of raw materials and services for the factory. Also, he envisaged that the facility will generate over 1500 jobs when fully operational, significantly reduce dependence on import and help in stimulating the economy. Adetula, though lamented difficulty in accessing intervention funds established by federal government, nevertheless he said the company has approached the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), to possibly access the Local Content Fund. The managing director said the company has brazed the trail as pioneer indigenous Water and Process Treatment Technology Company, Energy Services, Construction and Agro-Allied establishment, and has given employment to many skilled young Nigerian graduates. The company, he said, commenced its business as a trading company specialising in the supply of Chemical products and services before graduating into a full-fledged Engineering Solutions Company Organisation. “We now manufacture the products and customising its services to clients across the West African Region,” Adetula said. The company’s range of products and services cuts across Water and Process Treatment Applications in Industrial and Institutional, Power and Steel, Fertiliser and Cement, Oil and Gas etc. “We have constantly maintained a leadership position in Water and Process Treatment Technology, providing our clients with efficient, cost-effective technology and a level of personal involvement that ensures you get the solution that’s just right for your operation and your organization,” Adetula said adding, “To match your escalating needs, we do a lot of upfront work to pinpoint potential weak spots and address comprehensive system requirements. Discovering new ways to run systems better and more economically is a dynamic process- that’s why a big part of what we offer is constant vigilance and a sharp focus on strategies for fine-tuning your system to maintain the highest level of efficiency.”