The Industrial Training Fund, (ITF), has trained 700 youths across the country in Information and Communication Technology, ICT under its Infotech Skills Empowerment Programme (ISEP). The programme, which lasted for three months, saw the beneficiaries go through Advanced Computer Networking (CCNA); Computer Networking Certification (N+); and Computer Hardware Maintenance and Repair (A+). Speaking at graduation ceremony of the Infotech Skills Empowerment Programme (ISEP) in Abuja on Thursday, the director-general/chief executive of the industrial training fund, (ITF), Sir Joseph Ntung Ari, said “Nigeria, as the biggest economy in Africa and with one of the largest population of youths in the world, is well positioned to develop a robust ICT sector to fast-tract her economic development. It is in realization of this that the Industrial Training Fund initiated and launched the InfoTech Skills Empowerment Programme (ISEP) with the training and Certification of 700 Nigeria youths across the six geo-political Zones. “The trainees passing out today, are basically degree holders carefully selected and equipped with a three-month intensive specialized ICT Skills. “The trainees, sequel to the training, were enrolled for international ICT certification examination in the following Trades: Advanced Computer Networking (CCNA); Computer Networking Certification (N+); and Computer Hardware Maintenance and Repair (A+). It is with great pleasure to announce that over 80% of the enrolled Trainees passed the certification examination. This huge success is largely due to the quality of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) strategy put in place by the ITF during the course of the training.” He also explained that “The InfoTech Skills Empowerment Programme is one of the many skills training programmes that the ITF has so far deployed to train thousands of youths, women and the physically challenged in line with its mandate. “The implementation of the InfoTech Skills Training Programme became necessary due to the discovery of gaps in knowledge and skills in the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector of the Nigerian economy. “The programme has also become imperative in view of the overwhelming evidence of the yet-to-be- tapped potential economic benefits derivable from ICT. He further stated that “in Nigeria, the impact of the ICT sector on the Gross Domestic Product, as declared by the federal government, grew by 14.60 percent as compared to the oil and gas sector GDP of 8.8percent, in 2019.” Also speaking, the special guest of honour, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, pledged the ministry’s commitment and support of ITF. Represented by the director human resources of the ministry, Samuel Alabi, the minister tasked the beneficiaries to pit to good use all the things they have learnt. 