Dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, has been relocated from Loko town in Nasarawa State to Awe, the headquarters of Awe local government area of the state. This is even as his legal team has vowed to approach the court with a suit challenging his removal, saying the action of the state government was illegal and unconstitutional. Kano State government had on Monday announced the dethronement of Sanusi and his subsequent replacement with Aminu Ado Bayero as the 15th Emir of Kano. It said Sanusi who was banished to Loko town in Nasarawa state was deposed on grounds of allegations of “total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the governor”. The dethroned monarch, in company of Emirs of Lafia, Keffi and Nasarawa, arrived his new abode at about 3:20pm yesterday. But hours after arriving Loko where he was originally billed to take asylum, Sanusi was taken out to Awe town. Although there was no official statement from Nasarawa State government in respect of why the dethroned Emir was moved to Awe, a source told our correspondent that the decision to relocate him was reached after the state governor, Abdullahi Sule, and royal fathers in the state unanimously agreed that Loko town was not habitable for a former traditional ruler like Sanusi. LEADERSHIP gathered that unlike Loko, Awe has basic amenities such as pipe born water, electricity that is connected to the national grid and all GSM networks. „Loko has no light, access road, pipe borne water and no network. You know such a revered personality cannot stay there“, the source who did not want his name in print said. Before Sanusi was taken to Awe, Governor Sule was said to have summoned an emergency meeting with first class traditional rulers in the state. The governor summoned the meeting to address issues of accommodation and the upkeep of the deposed Emir of Kano. The Emirs at the emergency meeting include the Emir of Lafia, Justice Sidi Dauda Bage (rtd); Emir of Keffi, Alhaji Shehu Chindo Yamusa III, the Emir of Nasarawa among others. For the short period he stayed in Loko town, the dethroned monarch stayed at the residence of the Chief Imam of Loko under tight security. The traditional ruler of Loko, Alhaji Abubakar Ahmed Sabo, who earlier confirmed Sanusi’s relocation to journalists in a telephone chat yesterday said, “He has been relocated from my domain. The Emir of Kano left my domain around 1:40pm. I don’t know where they have taken him to. They came with a helicopter and took him away. He has left“. It became clearer later in the day that Sanusi II was conveyed in a Police Chopper from Loko to Government House Lafia where he joined a waiting convoy and was driven by road to Awe. From Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, to Awe is 92 kilometers. In Awe, the dethroned Emir, was taken to the personal residence of the chairman of Awe local government, Alhaji Umar Abubakar Danakano. Meanwhile, the legal team of the deposed Emir of Kano, Sanusi II, has described removal by the state as illegal and unconstitutional. At press conference yesterday at his chamber, Sanusi’s lead counsel, Abubakar Balarabe Mahmoud (SAN), said although the legal team has not spoken with the Emir on whether to challenge his removal from office or not, they were poised to take action on the infringement of the fundamental rights of their client. “This action is, in our view, illegal and unconstitutional.  The Kano State Emirate Council law which was recently enacted by the Government of Kano State does not give the State Executive Council or the governor of Kano State the powers to unilaterally remove the Emir.“ According to Mahmoud, the reason given in the letter of deposition of the Emir dated March 19, 2020 was alleged ‘. The ex-emir was also alleged to have ‘refused to attend official programmes and meetings organized by the Government’, As far as we are aware, there has not been any notice of such disrespect ever given to the Emir or querry issued to him for refusal to attend official functions“ He said his client was never given any opportunity to defend himself allegations bordering on disrespect to lawful instructions from the authorities. He pointed out that section 13 of the Kano Emirates Council Law 2019 cited in the letter of deposition empowers the governor to depose an Emir only after due inquiry and in consultation with state council of chiefs. “Muhammadu Sanusi II was the Chairman of the Council and if such meeting was summoned, he would have been aware.  He would have informed us.  In our view the action was patently illegal and unconstitutional and a clear abuse of power“, he added. The legal luminary noted however that while the decision to challenge Sanusi’s removal was solely that of the deposed Emir, no such instruction has been given to the legal team. He said, „Since the deposition was announced, I was at the palace yesterday afternoon in the company of one of my colleagues to consult with the Emir. We met him in good spirit in company of his family and a few associates. “He said to us that he was waiting for the deposition letter from the Government House and was informed that the Commissioner of Police was on his way along with certain government officials. While waiting, there was commotion in the private wing of the palace as some unauthorized persons tried to gain entry into the family section. “This led to some scuffle and teargas was fired by the security operatives.  Normalcy was restored after the unauthorized persons along with armed security operatives retreated from the inner part of the palace. I subsequently, along with my colleagues, was able to meet with the Commissioner of Police and other security operatives and with the permission of the Emir, they were led to one of his sitting rooms where the deposition letter was served on him by an agent of the state government. The Emir accepted the letter and decided to acknowledge it personally after writing some Quranic Verses in the Arabic script along with his signature. „This was handed over to the government official. In the letter of deposition, it was stated that the Emir was to be removed to Nassarawa State. We requested to know if he was under arrest and if so, we needed to see the warrant. The Commissioner of Police informed us that he was not under arrest.  We informed the Commissioner of Police that it was illegal and violation of his constitutional rights to move him to Nassarawa State against his wish. The Emir informed the Commissioner of Police that his friends had sent an aircraft to fly him and his family to Lagos and requested that they should be provided with necessary security to the airport so that he could leave. The Commissioner refused, saying that was not the instruction. “They were willing to allow the family to leave for Lagos but he was to be flown to Abuja then taken to Nassarawa State.  It was clear to us that both the Emir and ourselves were helpless and the police and other security agents were willing to take any measure and use force to achieve their objective”. Narrating further, the lawyer said, ”In order not to jeopardize the Emir’s safety or the safety of any member of his family or indeed other persons around, the Emir decided to cooperate and proceed in the vehicles provided by the operatives. “We accompanied the Commissioner of Police to the Nigerian Airforce base in Kano where the Emir was put in a private aircraft and they departed at about 6.40pm. The family subsequently boarded the aircraft arranged by his friends and departed for Lagos about 15 minutes later. „We have not spoken to the Emir since yesterday but we understand they are at their destination somewhere in a remote part of Nassarawa State after driving for nearly seven hours in the night and arrived at about 200 am this morning. We understand the choice of location to detain HH Muhammadu Sanusi II was intended to cause maximum trauma and distress.  This again is illegal and unconstitutional. “According to instructions we received from the Emir through his Chief of Staff, we are directed to take legal action to challenge the legality of the Emirs detention and banishment.  We are of the firm view that this action is illegal and unconstitutional. “Section 35 of our constitution guarantees every citizen the right to personal liberty.  The bases of the denial of personal liberty are set out clearly in this Section of the Constitution.  None applies to the case of the Emir.  The archaic practice of banishment of deposed Emirs is a colonial practice that has no basis under Nigerian law or the constitution.  We are totally perplexed at the resort to this practice in present day Nigeria by its political leaders”. Mahmoud continued: “The illegality of this practice was pronounced by the Nigerian Court of Appeal in Attorney General Kebbi State v. HRH Alhaji Al Mustapha Jakolo and ors 2013 LPELR 22349/CA where the Court pronounced it as illegal and unconstitutional and gross violation of the rights of the Emir. „This is what the court said in that case: ‘The banishment and deportation from Kebbi State by the Governor of Kebbi State….of the first respondent to Lafia in Nassarawa State and later to Obi also in Nassarawa State is most unconstitutional and illegal’. “We call on the authorities, in particular the Inspector General, the Director General of Department State Services and Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice to ensure the immediate release of HH Muhammadu Sanusi II so that he can be reunited with his family. “We are concerned about the personal safety and security of HH Muhammdu Sanusi II and wish to call on all well-meaning Nigerians and the International Community to bring their influence to bear to ensure that HH Muhammadu Sanusi regains his liberty immediately and to guaranty his safety and security. The legal team of the ex-emir are working both in Kano and Abuja and unless he is released immediately, we will be taking appropriate legal action”. Deposed Monarch Rallies Support For New Emir Of Kano Maeanwhile, the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, yesterday urged the people of Kano to give his successor, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, the support he needs on the throne as the new Emir of Kano. “Any person who succeeds me should be accepted by the people of Kano so he can end well. God does not make a mistake; whatever he gives is the best, and today don’t be disturbed. Whatever thing that God started, it is the end we hope for and may God help this to end well”, he stated in a video posted on his facebook page. Yielding to superior decision, the embattled Sanusi stated in the video that went viral on social media the throne was ephemeral. He said, “The throne of an emir is not permanent; every king and leader should know this. If it were a permanent throne, I wouldn’t have been the emir of Kano. “Before I came, someone was the emir and before him someone else was there. Therefore, it is nothing that would shock anybody. Whenever God says your time on the throne is over, if you don’t leave with your legs, people will carry your body out of the palace. “Therefore, I thank God that brings to me a peaceful end without any rancour or chaos. We thank the prophets, Imams, those who have been behind us all this years. We call on the entire Umah to remain in peace. “We thank the entire Muslims who have been supporting us year by year, the entire people of Kano and may god help them to continue to live in people. May god give us a good leader and give our land back to us. We leave you people with sweetheart and thanks.” Kaduna Govt Offers Sanusi Board Appointment Meanwhile, barely 24 hours after he was removed, Kaduna State government yesterday appointed dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, into the board of the Kaduna Investment Promotion Agency (KADIPA). A statement from Sir Kashim Ibrahim House to this effect noted that “the appointment is part of the reconstitution of the board of KADIPA, which is statutorily chaired by the Deputy Governor, and has as internal members other senior officials of the Kaduna State Government.” The statement which was signed by Mr Muyiwa Adekeye, special adviser on media and communication to the state governor said, “Kaduna State hopes to benefit from the profile, experience, intellect and networks of His Highness, Muhammad Sanusi, who before becoming Emir, had built a solid reputation in global financial circles. “Malam Nasir El-Rufai said that Kaduna State is honoured to be able to call on the services of a man of such calibre to drive its development,’’ the statement added. The statement explained that the government carefully chose the external members to further reinforce the investment credentials of the state. According to the statement, deputy governor of Kaduna State, Dr Hadiza Balarabe, will chair the board, “while His Highness Muhammadu Sanusi II will be      Vice-Chairman. Other members of the board include Malam Balarabe Abbas Lawal, secretary to the state government; Mr Jimi Lawal, senior adviser and counselor, and Aisha Dikko, the Attorney General of Kaduna State. The KADIPA board also includes the Head of Service, Hajiya Bariatu Yusuf Mohammed, Commissioner of Business, Innovation and Technology, Idris Nyam, Commissioner of Housing and Urban Development, Fausat Ibikunle and Commissioner, Planning and Budget Commission, Thomas Gyang. Other board members are the Director-General of Kaduna Geographic Information System(KADGIS), Altine Jibrin, Muhammad Hafiz Bayero, the Managing Director of Kaduna Market Development and Management Company, Farida Dankaka and Umma Aboki, the Executive Secretary of KADIPA. “The governor also said that he is confident that the new board, which contains the most senior officers of the state will further propel KADIPA to greater success in attracting investments to Kaduna State.”