British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson has announced a record £210million to find a coronavirus vaccine. He called on world leaders to collaborate to speed up vaccine development for coronavirus. By his action, the United Kingdom has become the biggest contributor to the international coalition to find a vaccine, with the £210 million funding announced. Britain is also funding to accelerate production of rapid tests and treatments for the virus, bringing the total amount of UK aid spent fighting coronavirus to £544million. The race to find a vaccine for coronavirus will be boosted by £210 million of new UK aid funding, the prime minister announced, following a virtual summit of G20 leaders. His approval of the fund was contained in a statement the British High Commission in Nigeria issued yesterday. The statement asserted that till date, “this is the largest single contribution by any country to the key international fund to find a coronavirus vaccine. It will ensure British scientists and researchers continue to lead the global fight against the virus. “The prime minister is calling on governments to work together to create a vaccine as quickly as possible and make it available to anyone who needs it, the statement indicated. The UK, along with many other countries, is channelling funding to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) which is supporting the development of vaccines that will be available throughout the world. Future vaccines will be made available at the lowest possible price to the NHS and other countries’ healthcare systems. sCEPI has announced that it requires $2 billion additional funding from international governments to develop the crucial vaccine. If all G20 governments pledged $100 million funding this shortfall would be met instantly. The UK has already gone beyond its share by committing £250 million to CEPI to date, and the UK is asking all governments to contribute to this important international goal. In the video call between G20 leaders, the first gathering of this group since the coronavirus outbreak, it discussed international efforts to protect the global economy from the long-term effects of the virus.