A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Kingsley Wenenda Wali, has described the minister of Transportation, Rt Hon Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and Senator Magnus Ngei Abe as the biggest victims of the crisis rocking the party in the state. Wali, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt, Rivers State yesterday, described the APC crisis as a big scam, saying that it is never about Amaechi or Abe, who is the immediate past Senator representing Rivers South-East district in the National Assembly. He said: “I have consistently held the view that the Rivers APC crisis is a big scam, with His Excellency, Rt Hon Chibuike Amaechi and Senator Magnus Abe, the biggest victims. “It was never about them, but the greed of the new relevant men around them. They truly don’t care about Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, nor do they give two flying Fs about Magnus Ngei Abe. They live in the mortal fear of what their fate will be if peace returns in the house Amaechi built. “They are the ones who replaced Abe in the front seat in Amaechi’s car and the new lieutenants of Abe, after Victor Giadom left the second in command seat. Pedestrian as this may seem, but it is actually the main factor sustaining the fire in the Amaechi Peoples Confluence in Rivers State. “Yes, Senator Abe has an ambition to be governor & this is his inalienable right. Also, Amaechi has a right to say who his preferred candidate is or will be and no amount of sophistry can deny him that. So, we must not dwell on their choices, but the malicious grandstanding of their supporters. “The system never changed its modus operandi, therefore all that partook in the ways & means of the Confluence, are estopped from querying the statute books of the Confluence.” Wali, who is also the Convener of Unity House Foundation (UHF), a good governance advocacy group, stated that every big politicians in Rivers State is interested in the crisis within the APC.  He said: The tragedy of the crisis in APC is to the best of judgement, not fully appreciated by the Rivers people and Nigerians at large. If we insist that it is an Amaechi vs Magnus issue, then we reject the lessons of Awolowo versus Akintola also known as Pepsi/Coca-Cola war.  “As I’m writing, it is actually all coming back. Nigeria fiddled, while Western Nigeria burned. In the case of Rivers APC, Nigeria is fiddling with the destiny of the South-South, pretending not to see that a dangerous stage is being set for the final conflict. God Forbid.  “Every active politician is interested in the Rivers APC crisis, but largely, in a most diabolical way. They’ve all taken sides, with the sole purpose of ensuring that the sun does not rise. Should I dismiss the allegations of external sponsorship? Not about to take a bit on that.”