Members of the Brotherhood Bishops of the Cross and Star yesterday converged on the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for a national peace march over the worrisome insecurity in the country. Addressing a press conference before the peace march, the group’s spokesperson, Mr. Edet Archibong, said that the march was part of a weeklong programme of the organisation with theme: “Abuja 2020″. Archibong said: “With the menace of insurgency, kidnapping, armed robbery, inter-tribal wars and a host of other security concerns, most Nigerians are calling for peace which will come from the eradication of these societal challenges. “The Abuja Evangelical Peace March is aimed at seeking the face of God to instill peace in the entire Nigeria and to draw the attention of Nigerians to the fact that, the giver of peace is physically in Nigeria. “Though God is present with us here, we have to identify him and present our problems before Him to obtain the needed solution. “The way out is to practise the teachings on love brought by the Holy Spirit personified, Leader Olumba Olumba Obu and to surrender all thrones and dominions, for the owner of the world and giver of peace has arrived,” he said. He further said that for Nigeria to move forward, religious and ethnic bigotry, ethnic sentiments and discrimination should be done away with. “We should love one another irrespective of religion, ethnicity, social status or gender. “If we have love for one another, there will be no stealing, no kidnapping, no defrauding, no killing, no embezzlement of funds and no favouritism, in fact, all vices will disappear,” he added. In remarks, the Archbishop of Brotherhood, Prof. David Irefin, said that the crusade was about giving peace to Nigeria, starting from Abuja to other parts of the country. “We are here in Abuja to tell the whole world that’s all security challenges in Nigeria, Olumba Olumbab has said it’s time to give Nigerians peace in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,” he said. It was recall that the peace March is slated for Saturday 14 March, 2020, with the estimated number of over five thousand participants from Africa, Europe, North America, the Caribbean, South America and Asia will be in Insecurity. 