The Ondo state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has announced the closure of all schools across the state as part of measures to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. Akeredolu, in a state broadcast on Thursday, said “the measure is to harvest our children into the safety net for proper monitoring and care.” The governor who use the medium to also denied any cases of Coronavirus death in the state , noted that the “situation as at today is that a suspected case is under intense observation and comprehensive test.” He said, “There is no doubt that this global pandemic poses a real challenge to all nations, yet if we all collaborate effectively, we will overcome it successfully. “One major advantage that our state has is the experience and expertise we have developed over the years from our fight against Lassa fever and other infections. “We believe this will place us in good stead at this critical period. It is therefore important for members of the public to remain calm, avoid panic and spreading of inaccurate information.” The governor, however, called on the residents of the state to obey and observe the simple, time tested and internationally accepted precautionary measures to fight this debilitating virus. According to him, “We urge us all to fully embrace the hand washing exercise at every interval of our daily activities. We must avoid hand shaking and unnecessary social embrace. “We must reduce or where possible, postpone, until further notice, ceremonies and other social gatherings. We urge us to avoid staying in overcrowded areas and avoid any unnecessary travels outside the state. “It is important we engage in improved self and family hygiene as well as mobilise our community service providers including traders, drivers, butchers, bank workers, health workers to make use of face mask to cover the mouth and the nose when engaging in their daily activities. “To ensure that all measures stated earlier are totally successful, we hereby task our community leaders, political leaders, traditional rulers, religious  leaders, heads of educational institutions, Nigerian medical association, association of general medical practitioners and other health workers, leaders of traders association, women groups, youth groups, transport unions and others to urgently commence a deliberate and comprehensive mobilization of their members to observe these precautionary measures. “Please let us take these measures seriously so as to wage the war against corona virus together and win.” 