Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi on Monday inaugurated, a task force saddled with the responsibility of enforcing compliance to the prohibition of public gatherings of more than 20 persons in the state. The government said the move was to forestall the spread of the pandemic coronavirus disease in the state Members of the committees include: 16 council chairmen, Nigeria Army, Department of State Services, Police, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Federal Road Safety Corps, market men and women, Ekiti State environmental inspectors and other ethnic nationalities. Represented by the Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Gbenga Agbeyo, the governor while inaugurating the committee, said the government was not particularly happy about the way the order banning congregation of more than 20 people was being flouted. This is just as the Ekiti State Police Command warned residents against flouting governments’ order on public gathering, saying any group of people found violating the directive will be arrested. This was contained in a statement signed by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu , an Assistant Superintendent of Police and made available to journalists in Ado Ekiti . The statement reads, “This is to inform the general public that in line with the directives of both the Federal and the State Government that all public gatherings that exceed 20 people are banned till further notice as a measure to fight and curtail the outbreak of the deadly disease known as Coronavirus, the Nigeria Police Force, Ekiti State Command, hereby urge all and sundry to abide by the directive. “Henceforth, all public gatherings, be it political gatherings, social gatherings, religious gatherings, night clubs, bars, e.t.c that exceed 20 people are prohibited. “Any group of persons who violates the new order shall be arrested and prosecuted. “The Commissioner of Police, Ekiti State Command, CP Amba Asuquo, therefore urges everybody to be law abiding citizens for the benefit of all and our society, as the command will always prioritize the safety of lives and properties of the citizenry”. In her remarks, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade revealed that 37 persons, apart from the driver of the dead American, who had been tested positive to CODIV-19, are experiencing self -isolation in Ekiti. “Medical history had shown that people coming from highly endemic countries like China, England , Italy and America, were the ones importing the disease to Nigeria. “In Italy, about 793 persons died in a day and 600 the subsequent day. Today, over 5,000 have died in that country. We pray this doesn’t happen in Ekiti and that is why we must take precautions. “The governor as a way of containing the infection banned burials, weddings, political and family meetings, church services and other congregations that are more than 20, but sad enough some people are still flouting the order”. 