With ten years down the line for the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), HENRY TYOHEMBA takes a look at the journey so far and the possibility of achieving the target before 2030. Five years has gone by since Nigeria signed off to adopt the SDGs to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change, while also ensuring that no one is left behind. In January 2016, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by world leaders in September 2015 officially came into force to replace the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and Nigeria was among the 193 countries that signed to it. The SDGs which focuses on no Poverty, zero Hunger, good Health and Well-being, quality Education, gender Equality, clean Water and Sanitation, affordable and Clean Energy, decent Work and economic Growth, industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure, reducing Inequality, sustainable Cities and Communities, responsible Consumption and production, climate Action, life below Water, life On Land, peace, Justice, and strong partnerships for the Goals still has a long way to go according to experts. More worrisome is the fact that with just ten years down the line, Nigeria is still battling with the social needs ranging from education, health, social protection and job opportunities, among others. The SDGs which consists of 17 thought provoking goals came with a greater hope to address the issue of over 10 million out of school children, high rate of child mortality, insecurity and other critical areas. However, five years gone by, a Nigerian child still cannot get access to quality education, Nigeria is still struggling with under-5 mortality amongst other issues. Analysts believe that the prospects of Nigeria attaining the objectives outlined in the Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) is bleak and needs to be addressed now. Moreover, from the current National Demographic Health Survey (NDHS) 2018 report, Nigeria still needs a whopping $350billion US Dollars (over N126 trillion) to meet the targets. Experts are therefore, concerned that Nigeria may fail, just as it happened in the Millennium Development Goals(MDGs) which elapsed in 2015 if proper measures are not taken. In the latest survey presented at a two-day Media Dialogue on Data-Driven Reporting and Dissemination of Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey in Port-Harcourt at the weekend, organised by United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in collaboration with Child Rights Information Bureau (CRIB) of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, the experts also identified poor governance systems, rising unemployment indices, low per capita income of households including endemic corruption as factors that may also crumble the objectives in the SDGs. In one of such, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, Maureen Zubie-Okolo, said Nigeria is not measuring up to expectations in the SDGs. Zubie-Okolo who was concerned specifically with goal 4 which encompasses inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all, said 36percent of females in Nigeria have no access to education as against 27percent in men, adding that at a time where concerns have heightened over out of school children population in the country, only 18 percent of female children and 19 percent of males aged 6 and above have attended primary school, with only 11 percent of both sexes having managed to complete primary education. She further lamented that a careful look NDHS report shows that childhood mortality is generally higher among children of less educated and poorer mothers, hence the need to invest in educating and empowering these women. “The under-5 mortality is still high in Nigeria and we need to develop strategies to tackle this menace by improving the services provided to women during and after pregnancy,”she said. Zubie-Okolo added that there is need for governments at all levels to increase investment in children and women health-care delivery, as infant mortality rate as well as under 5 mortality rate stands at 67 deaths and 132 deaths per 1000 annual live birth respectively. To Professor Davis Omotola, another development expert, goal 16 of the SDGs which emphasizes the need for promoting peaceful and inclusive societies was still elusive in Nigeria owing to tribalism and ethnic sentiments. Omotola who was also concerned about the poverty rate in Nigeria, attributed it to the increase in production of children than cannot match with the income generation, saying that Nigeria may not be able to beat the global timeline of the SDGs which is 2030. Delivering on the topic, “Nigeria’s progress towards the SDGs, why Nigeria may not meet the target,” he said Nigeria needs a large chunk of money to achieve the SDG goals and expressed fears that such might not be forth coming for the actualisation of the goals. To address the challenges, the report recommended that Nigeria must address the challenges of data and appropriate disaggregated data. Speaking on universal health coverage, Omotola said less than 50 percent of the population have health insurance certificate, a phenomenon that leaves most of the citizens to their fate when illnesses befall them. “In today’s world, data is life and for us who analyse the development indices, from data coming from the relevant agencies we see bleak figures, especially as the country faces so many challenges most of which bother on children, their development and in relation to the SDGs goals,” he said. Others have also raised alarm over the prevailing health issues which has continued to affect growth of Nigeria. UNICEF Chief Field Officer of Port Harcourt, Guy Yogo, said that available data shows that more children in Nigeria today are left behind in the nation’s development plans thereby undermining the child right act. “We have a vision to mobilise resources to promote children’s rights. Our momentum is geared towards the acceleration of the sustainable development goals (SDGs). We will change the narratives by speaking on the situation of children and putting forth an accurate narrative about our journey, and move to ensure that we achieve our goals. “Data available from the Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS), indicates that we still have a lot of health challenges that needs to be surmounted. However, we are very hopeful we can make it. For example, under-five mortality is still very high at 132 deaths per 1,000 live births. Also, maternal mortality rate is still high. It is inexplicable that in the 21st century women still lose their lives from child birth”. To him, reducing the trend will require serious awareness to build coalition about the vision of Nigeria and social demands from communities to improve their rights. “Quality dialogue between policy makers, civil society organizations, communities, children, men, and women will not be possible without the collaboration of the media. We need to accelerate efforts and raise awareness because SDG 2030 is just around the corner”. The Head of Child Rights Information Bureau, Federal Ministry of Information, Olumide Osanyinpeju, in his remark said “The need to use data figures accurately in the advocacy reports of Development Partners like UNICEF and other Agencies is paramount to the government of the Federation, to guide against contentious issues. “It has become very urgent and important not only to the Government of Nigeria, but also to key Partners and Stakeholders. Against this backdrop, this Media Dialogue is not only timely but also on point. “Both Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey (MICS) and Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) are survey initiatives designed to assist countries, Nigeria inclusive, in filling data gaps for monitoring human development in general and the situation of children and women in particular. “These surveys have been instrumental in strengthening national statistics capacities, highlighting and filling gaps in quality data, monitoring and tracking progress toward national and international development goals like the SDGs and, in identifying emerging issues and disparities among groups in societies. “Collecting quality data is necessary, but not sufficient. Data must also be disseminated in a user- friendly way to ensure that they are understood and used. Data also informs policy decisions and enhances advocacy and public awareness on priority development issues.” 