Nigeria’s leading telecommunication company, 9mobile, over the weekend set the ancient city of Kano agog as it showered residents with mouth-watering gifts and fun-filled entertainment amidst the expansion of its 4G-LTE service in the commercial city. Both young and old had their fill of the fun as everyone shared the joy of the new experience of superior 4G-LTE quality accompanied by comedy by MC Alfalaila, jokes by On Air Personality, Chiboy of Wazobia FM, dance competition, raffle draws as well as light refreshments courtesy of 9mobile. There were also games including table tennis, snooker and several board games for adults while children also enjoyed themselves thoroughly on the bouncy castle. Some lucky customers also went home with gifts like generator set, sewing machines, refrigerators, standing fans, camp gases, electric kettles and many more in the raffle draws held during the funfair. The crowd could not contain their joy as musician, Classic, performed several of his numbers and they happily sang along. The excitement level went a notch higher when the peoples’ favourite, Umar Shariff, took the stage. There were ecstatic shouts as the crowd converged at the foot of the stage to drink in his performance. Winner of the star prize – a generator – Fatimah Bello, who could not contain her joy, exclaimed: “I feel so happy. It was a surprise. I started using 9mobile about five years ago, and I decided to attend the funfair when a friend told me about it.  I just came to enjoy myself. I never thought I would win. I say a big thank you to 9mobile. I’m so happy.” Commenting on the 4G-LTE deployment, director, Network Operations, 9mobile, Abdulmutallib Muhammed, said it demonstrated the telco’s commitment to continue offering superior quality services to its customers. “We are leaders in the data space with our low latency rate for high-speed connectivity and planned redundancy to minimise downtime impact. Now, with the 9mobile 4G LTE, millions of our customers will be able to make clear and crisp calls as well as have access to faster internet for browsing and online experience at all times. It’s bye to buffering. Our data is one of the most affordable and best in terms of speed because quality service is our number one objective. We are enabling our customers to do more and get more,” he said. Muhammed further highlighted the uniqueness of 9mobile’s 4G LTE, noting that it was born 4G-LTE ready and that customers don’t need a SIM swap to enjoy it. “Our SIMs are already LTE enabled and apart from bringing 4G to these new cities, 9mobile 4G internet comes with one of the best speed levels in the market. We setup our network purposely with backup systems to ensure uninterrupted service. We do all these because we are a customer-centric brand that wants the best for our customers,” he said. 9mobile has added 10 new cities and towns across Nigeria to its 4G network and upgraded LTE services in existing six towns, increasing the number of locations that now enjoy superior quality service with the mass deployment of 4G technology to 16.