Dangote Cement Plc said that it is planning an inaugural issuance of bond under its N300 billion shelf registration programme. The Company, the largest cement producer in Sub-Saharan Africa with an installed capacity of 45.6 million metric tons annually across its operations in 10 African Countries, has gotten approvals from its board of directors to access the capital markets for medium-term debt funding. This was disclosed in a notification which was sent by the Company to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and signed by the deputy company secretary, Edward Imoedemhe. The multinational firm intends to issue its maiden series of bonds subjects to obtaining regulatory approvals and favourable market conditions. The management of Dangote Cement disclosed that the proceeds of the series one bond would be used to refinance existing short-term debt that was previously used for cement expansion projects, saying that the raised funds from this exercise will also be used as additional working capital as well as for general corporate purposes. The book-building for the Series one bonds is expected to commence following its approval by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC). Series one bonds are non-marketable bonds which are designed to offer low-risk investments. Their non-marketable feature means that they cannot be bought or sold in the secondary markets. The two types of interest that a series one bond earns are an interest rate that is fixed for the life of the bond and an inflation rate. Meanwhile, in June 2018, Dangote Cement applied to raise a N150 billion fresh capital through the issuance of commercial paper. The funds from the commercial paper were to be deployed towards capital expenditure, working capital and general corporate purpose. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Dangote Cement recorded Pan-African sales volume of 9.6Mt higher than 9.4Mt in 2018. According to the Company’s full year report, Dangote Cement Plant, Mtwara, Tanzania, recorded an increase of 94 percent increase in volume within the review period. Dangote Cement Plant, Pout, Senegal put up a remarkable performance with sales up more than 100 percent of rated capacity. The board has proposed a final dividend of N16 per share subject to ratification by the shareholders at the coming annual general meeting (AGM). Speaking on the result, group chief executive officer, Dangote Cement, Joe Makoju, said, “Dangote Cement maintained strong financial performance despite a low growth environment, pricing pressure and increasing competition in key markets. The Nigerian operations maintained volume and revenue performance in a challenging environment. affected by the border closure in the second half of 2019. Looking ahead, I expect an increase in volumes in 2020 as we commence clinker exports via shipping from Nigeria.” 