With the enormity and severity of the looming catastrophe which the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic portends, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) urged business owners to review their strategies in line with unfolding developments. The president of LCCI, Toki Mabogunje in a release to LEADERSHP said that the impact of the pandemic has both global and national implications. According to Mobogunje, at the domestic level, LCCI observes the pandemic has led to weakening oil prices, induced by the pandemic, leading to the downward review of the 2020 budget; disruptions in business and economic activities as companies and businesses shut down operations. He said following lockdowns and mobility restrictions; aviation, hospitality, SMEs, manufacturing sectors are among some of the worst hit in the current situation; and worsening fiscal and external position of the country in the light of lower receipts from oil exports. Also, depreciation of the naira exchange rate across various market windows; and adverse impact on Nigeria’s trade, as the major trading partners in Asia and Europe are grappling with the challenge of lockdowns. The president of LCCI advised businesses to review their strategies in line with unfolding developments and give consideration to adoption of a flexible business model to ensure tight control on costs and non-revenue generating segments of the business. He also charged them to review supply chain and focus on import substitution and backward integration as much as possible; leveraging technology in existing business processes for efficiency and cost effectiveness; and broaden the scope of remote working for employees. Meanwhile, the LCCI commended the efforts and steadfastness of the federal government, the Lagos state government, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the Ministries of Health and other state governments and agencies in containing this pandemic. It said that “We applaud the initiative of the private sector coalition led by Alhaji Aliko Dangote, the initiative of the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association with the Lagos State government, the Intervention funds being raised by the CBN with the partnership of certain Nigerian corporations to fight the pandemic and donations by international organisations such as that received from the Jack Ma Foundation, the founder of Alibaba.” The chamber noted that the pandemic is a tragedy of global proportions and should be brought under control and eliminated as early as possible, noting that the corona virus pandemic is not just a threat to our economic and social lives, it is a threat to collective humanity. “We invite other private sector actors to complement the current efforts of the government and the various private sector coalitions to ensure effective containment of the pandemic. “On the policy front, we acknowledge the stimulus package proposed by the Central Bank of Nigeria, the economic stimulus bill introduced by the House of Representatives and the pledge by the Finance Minister. “But what is paramount at this time are the quick wins to safeguard public health, security and food security. We need to invoke appropriate Executive Orders to make this happen. “There should be seamless access to medical and food supplies, especially by the vulnerable groups.  We should explore the option of cash transfers to the vulnerable groups to mitigate the pains associated with the current and imminent lockdowns in many parts of the country. “There should be immediate import duties and tax waivers for medical equipment, pharmaceutical products, food processing, raw materials and intermediate products and other essential items.  All customs bottlenecks to these sectors should be removed without delay. “The central bank should prevail on the banks to give concessions on pending private sector credit liabilities with the deposit money banks over the period of this economic crisis. The Nigerian customs service, the terminal operators and other agencies of government should extend similar concessions to port users at this time,” said Mobogunje.