The management of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Ekiti State has dismissed the claim that a corps member deployed to the state has contracted the dreaded coronavirus. This came as the Senator Biodun Olujimi urged Ekiti state government to step up efforts at identifying those that had contact with the corona virus victim said to have died in the state in order to curtail the spread of the viral disease in the state. NYSC in a statement in Ado Ekiti said there was no truth in the report it described as fake news. The statement reads: “The attention of the management has been drawn to a fake and unsubstantiated news making the rounds that a corps member presently in NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, Ise-Orun/Emure-Ekiti, Ekiti State has tested positive to Corona virus and has been moved to the State Isolation Centre situated at Oba Adenuyigbe Hospital, Anilosun, Ado-Ekiti. “The said report which was written with malicious intent to deceive the public and paint the scheme black, to mislead Nigerians is very unfortunate. “With every sense of responsibility,  I wish to state that the NYSC is a scheme committed to the development and unity of this great Nation and cannot engage in any act that will be detrimental to the country. “Accordingly, we will appreciate if the general public try to make enquiries on any matter about the scheme before publicizing falsehood”. The NYSC, however, expressed its avowed commitment to the welfare and well- being of its host communities and the corps members. Commenting on the development, Senator Olujimi who is representing Ekiti South Senatorial District at the National Assembly, expressed grief over the death of one of those who tested positive for the virus. She who applauded the state government for its timely response to identify the case, urged it to be more proactive in its response. An incidence of the viral disease was recorded in state and confirmed by the state government when a Nigerian male, 38 years old, of Ekiti origin, tested positive to theCovid-19. According to the Government, the confirmed case was suspected to have been infected while driving an American Caucasian, male, 27 years old, who was visiting Nigeria from Richmond, Virginia, USA in the company of his caregiver, a Nigerian female Age 31, of Ekiti origin. Senator Olujimi said the government must step up the identification of person that had contact with the suspected victim because of the homogeneity of the state which could help spread of deadly virus. She urged the government to also fortify the isolation centre with necessary kits and equipment and also provide needed manpower to combat the dreaded virus. While allaying the fears of the residents of the state over the pandemic, she urged the people to continue to take self -preventive measures by washing their hands with soap and water, covering their mouth when coughing or sneezing. She also advised the people to take further precaution by reducing social engagement in crowded places and to alert the authorities of any suspected case by calling the 112 Emergency number. 