The Adamawa State government has been assured that the State will benefit from the next tranche of the Agro- Processing , Productivity, Enhancement, Livelihood, Improvement  Support Programme (APPEALS) which is to cover 12 more states after the initial 6 Pilot states. The APPEALS project is part of the programmes initiated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to transform the agricultural sector for food sufficiency and economic transformation. The minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono gave the assurance when he received on a courtesy visit to his office yesterday, the governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri. The minister said that Adamawa State is strategic and viable especially in its livestock and other agricultural potentials. Nanono also solicited the cooperation of the State Government in embracing the Agricultural Mechanisation programme of the Ministry which he said was at the front burner and would commence soon.  According to him, the programme which is being practiced in countries such as Brazil, Ghana and Mozambique with huge successes recorded will equally succeed in Nigeria. He explained that the mechanisation programme will be private sector driven and assured that the implementation process will be seamless as plans were marshaled out to include, processing and service centres, administrative offices, workshops and storage facilities, assuring that investors will have value for their money. The Minister therefore appealed to the governor to mobilise and sensitise the farmers particularly, those at the Local Government Areas to take advantage and invest in the programme when it is implemented. The minister also informed that Adamawa State will benefit from the Livestock, Productivity, and Resilience Support (L-PRES) Project. The project, he explained is focused on how to improve our indigenous cattle and boost them genetically like what obtains in Brazil. He said that the livestock value chain has huge financial benefits such as in diary and other produce and stated that the ministry will take advantage and explore it. On his part, the Adamawa State governor, Umaru Fintiri said that he was in the ministry to specifically seek the inclusion of the state in the APPEALS programme and other agricultural programmes of the ministry that will improve on the socio-economic wellbeing of the people having suffered devastation from the Boko Haram insurgency and other criminalities in the state. He promised to set in motion plans for the smooth take off of the mechanisation programme when launched.