A recent report by a commission convened by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the United Nations Children’s Funds (UNICEF), and The Lancet (an English-based weekly peer-reviewed general medical journal), ranked Nigeria 174 out 180 countries for performance on child flourishing. The ranking, according to the report, was based on factors including measures of child survival and well-being such as health, education, nutrition, equity, and income gaps. This study is not far-fetched from existing reports, including the Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS-2018). According to the NDHS-2018, which was launched in 2019, childhood mortality in Nigeria remains high. Every year, an estimated one million Nigerian children die before their fifth birthday. It showed that infant mortality rate was 67 deaths per 1,000 live births for the 5-year period preceding the survey while under-5 mortality was 132 deaths per 1,000 live births. This implies that more than 1 in 8 children in Nigeria die before their 5th birthday, thus identifying Nigeria as one of five countries in the world with the highest number of under-five deaths. It, however, noted that Information on infant and child mortality was relevant to a demographic assessment of a country’s population and is an important indicator of the country’s socioeconomic development and quality of life, adding that information can also help identify children who may be at higher risk of death and lead to strategies to reduce this risk. The NDHS also noted that Information on child health and survival can help policymakers and programme managers assess the efficacy of current strategies, formulate appropriate interventions to prevent deaths from childhood illnesses, and improve the health of children in the country. Therefore, in a bid to broaden journalists knowledge on data information and effective analysis of the survey, the UNICEF, in collaboration with the Child Rights Information Bureau, Federal Ministry of Information, recently organised a two-day media dialogue on the NDHS, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and Data Solution Journalism, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. In her presentation titled, “The NDHS: Discussion on Data Trends” at the event, monitoring and valuation specialist, Maureen Zubie-Okolo, while discussing the trends, however, said that under-5 mortality rate has decreased since 2008 from 157 deaths per 1,000 live births to 132 deaths per 1,000 live births. She said that similarly that there has been a slight reduction in infant mortality from 75 to 67 deaths per 1,000 live births, but that there has been no noticeable change in the neonatal mortality rate over the same period. “Childhood mortality has declined. Infant mortality rate is reduced from 75 deaths per 1,000 live births (2013) to 67 deaths per 1,000 live births (2018), and under-5 mortality reduced from 157 deaths per 1,000 live births to 132 deaths per 1,000 live births,” her presentation highlighted. Analysing the data further, Zubie-Okolo, identified effective breastfeeding as crucial to a child’s health and development, indicating that exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months prevents infections such like diarrhoea and respiratory illnesses and provides all of the nutrients an infant requires for optimal growth and development. Commending the UNICEF for the focus on evidence generation and dissemination, the  Deputy Director/Head, Child Rights Information Bureau, Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, Olumide Osanyinpeju, in his opening remarks, noted that  data collection and dissemination are essential elements to both policy making and evaluation function. According him, the need to use data figures accurately in the advocacy reports of development partners like the UNICEF and other agencies is paramount to the federal government.