Many underwriting firms are currently selling off their real estate properties in a bid to increase their capital base to meet up with the December 31, 2020 deadline given by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). NAICOM had in May 2019 increased the capital levels for insurance and reinsurance companies operating in the market. Life Insurance business was increased from N2billion to N8billion; General Insurance Business from N3billion to N10billion; Composite Insurance Business from N5billion to N18billion; and Reinsurance companies from N10billion to N20billion with a deadline for the exercise initially set for June 2020, before it was moved to December. Industry experts said the rise in property assets sale in the insurance industry by insurance and reinsurance companies in the country was aimed at recapitalising to a new capital threshold.LEADERSHIP Sunday learnt that real estate investment is not admissible as capital in the ongoing recapitalisation exercise, thereby, forcing insurers who were seriously exposed to real estate investment to lay off some of their respective properties. However, investigation showed that most of them are now facing a stumbling block as some of those properties put for sale could not find buyers due to the glut in the real estate market. While the likes of Cornerstone Insurance Plc has found a buyer for its property that has yielded the company billions of naira in their recapitalisation drive, the same cannot be said of others who are still searching for suitable buyers. Niger Insurance and AXA Mansard Insurance were allegedly looking for buyers to their real estate investment. Underwriters are now facing the race against time with those heavily exposed to real estate investment struggling to get buyers, thereby, sourcing for funding elsewhere to meet the recapitalisation deadline. Speaking on this development, the group managing director/CEO, Cornerstone Insurance Plc,Ganiyu Musa, said his company had wanted to keep its property for long term but was forced to lay off its office building after it was discovered that real estate investment was not admissible in the ongoing exercise in the insurance industry. He said, “Of course, our original intention was to hold it for the long term but shortly after we completed it, NAICOM then came up with the recapitalisation programme and unfortunately, one of the provisions of the exercise is that investment properties would not be allowed as an admissible asset. “So, we are now in a situation where we have invested about N4billion of our funds and the regulator is saying, ‘Oh sorry! This N4 billion will not count.’ We took the big decision to sell the property which we did at a very handsome price. “And just in one swoop, it resolved many issues. We now have a significant amount of liquidity, we don’t have the headache of recapitalisation and we have done what the regulator wants, which is to convert any property to cash.” Similarly, the acting commissioner for insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, said, there were companies today that were in distress not because they did not have the assets to match their liabilities, but the structure of the assets was ineffective. “So, is it that we do not recognise the nature of our business? It is amazing, as some people still say we do not know why NAICOM should restrict our investments in property.The industry mobilised FMDQ to appeal to us to loosen the provision of the law. “It must not be done that way, because the fund belongs to people.We have companies that have put so much in properties, but we all know the state of the property market presently. We should ask ourselves how easily we can realise funds from these properties”. Meanwhile the regulator has said that it would provide an orderly exit for undercapitalised companies. Speaking at the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) 2020 Business Outlook, in Lagos, last week,  the acting commissioner for insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, disclosed that NAICOM would issue a guidance note on recapitalisation by this month’s end. He noted that recapitalisation was necessary, because stabilisation of the industry, would help to stabilise other sectors. “Recapitalisation will not lead to more branches in foreign countries that are as big as a local government in Nigeria. Moreover, the funds realised from this exercise will be used to underwrite big businesses, pay claims and support the economy,”he explained. He further stated that NAICOM would ensure efficiency , transparency and orderliness, to ensure an enabling environment, palliative and level playing field to all. Following the ongoing recapitalisation in the industry, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), is planning a palliative mechanism for underwriters, who could not recapitalise before the December 31st, 2020 deadline. The palliative, known as regulatory forbearance, would enable the undercapitalised firms form a consortium, by pooling all their resources together to form a strong single entity.  VAT Increase Pushes Up Insurers’ Operating Cost The implementation of 7.5 per cent Value Added Tax (VAT) is pushing up the operating cost of insurance companies in the current year, LEADERSHIP  has Sunday learnt. Nigerians, before now, were paying five per cent on every good purchased or services rendered. However, the VAT rate was further increased by 2.5 per cent in the 2020 Finance Act passed into law by the national assembly and accented to, by President Muhammadu Buhari, in a move to increase government revenue through tax. The Act took effect on the 1st of February, 2020 as companies were battling increased operating expenses with the new VAT rate. Most companies, especially, underwriting firms, according to findings, are already renovating their office premises, replacing old appliances and office fittings with new ones, while some are purchasing new technologies to serve their customers better. And with implementation of the new VAT rate commencing, expenses have soared as they have to pay increased Value Added Tax on every purchase. Most office purchases that might suffer this increase include; AC, Plasma TV, Information Technologies, computers, purchase of new official vehicles, furniture, among others. Speaking on this development in an interview with LEADERSHIP, the managing director/CEO, Anchor Insurance Company Limited, Mr. Ebose Augustine said, though, the 2020 Finance Act reduced and cancelled some controversial taxes insurance companies were earlier subjected to, increase in VAT will push up the operating cost of underwriting companies as well as other business outfits in the country. “For every purchase made, you have to pay the 7.5 VAT. This means additional financial responsibility for companies, hence, increasing the operating cost of firms. For instance, if I am purchasing a new technology, office fittings such as AC, Plasma TV, computer, among others, I will have to pay more VAT. “It is a new responsibility that each company will now need to budget for and bear,” he pointed out. He said, though, the extra 2.5 per cent increase to the previous 5 per cent VAT rate might look insignificant, it is indeed huge, because it translates to 50 per cent hike, which demands extra financial commitment. Similarly, the chief financial officer, LASACO Assurance Plc, Mr. Akinwale Sofile, said, Section 15 of the former Income Tax Act was not favourable to the insurance industry, adding that, operators have been fighting to review the Act since 2007 but to no avail. But with the 2020 Finance Bill, that has been taken care of, he said. According to him, “another aspect of the finance bill which is contentious is the issue of Value Added Tax (VAT). The increase in VAT to 7.5 per cent has its implication on our business”.