There are moves to reconcile aggrieved members of Lagos Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).This is not the first time such a committee would be set up to bring about truce in the party. ADEWALE AJAYI in this piece looks at the possibility of Governor Seyi Makinde’s reconciliation committee to broker peace in the party. Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has always been in the news for playing the role of a major opposition party to the party in power in the state, the All Progressives Congress APC. But many a time the Party has been in the news for the imbroglio within the party. Most often the crisis has been battle of supremacy between the factions within it. It became a recurring decimal that crisis became synonymous with the party. The last general elections also left a crack in the wall of the party. Prior to the election the governorship candidate Jimi Agbaje was accused of sidelining the party leadership in preparation and implementation of his electioneering campaign. After the election when the party lost to the APC candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, tongues started wagging again,and there were accusations and counter accusations that, money given to the party governorship candidate was not used for the purpose it was meant for. Also that the money handed over to him for the National Assembly candidates was also siphoned, and failure to provide funds meant for logistic purpose during the election contributed to the defeat of the party candidates at the polls. Leading the campaign of calumny against the party flagbearer was the chairman, then Doctor Adegbola Dominic. Also the leadership of Dominic came under serious attack, with Segun Adewale a one time senatorial candidate of the party, challenging his authority to assume the chairmanship position after the defection of its elected chairman, Hon Adegoke Salvador to the APC. Adewale armed with a court injunction says since the party chairman has resigned his position, then the mantle  of leadership falls on him,he maintained that the court injunction vested him with such power. Members of the party who were disenchanted about the development in the party,stated that since Dr.Dominic is not qualified to lead the party,there was the need to have a congress and elect party executives capable of moving the party forward,pending having the new executive, everything was at a lull within the party at that time. Dominic who never wanted to abdicate his position went to court to challenge the plan to have the new executive stating that,that can only come to be after the expiration of his tenure as the chairman of the party. The plan of Elders of the party was endorsed by the National Working Committee of the party and they had a Congress in November 2019,which produced a state executive led by Engineer Adedeji Doherty, but the choice of Doherty was not acceptable to Chief Olabode George, who is the leader of the party in the state, more so Dr Adegbola is said to be his stooge. The party governorship candidate Agbaje felt scandalised about the accusation leveled against him. He said he never kept any money meant to prosecute the election, neither did he siphon money meant for National Assembly candidates. He debunked the allegation that he is a mole working for the interest of the APC. The crisis rocking the party,further polarised the party members and put them at a cross roads. In order to reposition the party for greater challenges,a reconciliation committee was set up headed by Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde. The committee was in Lagos last week to meet with aggrieved members of the party,and the meeting was held at Bode George office on Lugard road,Ikoyi. Present at the meeting were former Lagos State deputy governor, Senator Kofoworola Buknor-Akerele; Dr. Remi Akitoye, Dr. Adegbola Dominic, Babatunde Gbadamosi who defected to Action  Democratic Party (ADP) to contest the governorship position in the 2019 general elections,among others. The meeting which was held behind closed doors lasted for more than three hours. Coming out of the meeting, Governor Makinde expressed satisfaction with the outcome which he said amounted to putting the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos on notice of surprises awaiting it come 2023. Also present at the meeting were the former Minister of Transportation, Chief Ebenezer Babatope ,former Governor of Delta State,Chief James Ibori. Makinde noted  that with  the move to reconcile aggrieved party members in Lagos State, the  APC, should be ready to vacate sit of governance in the state. Governor Makinde  while briefing the press after the meeting described the meeting as “mission accomplished.” “As you can see it was mission  accomplished. My father (Bode George) and I were able to resolve some of the issues. You must be frontal on how issues are addressed but we have made some good progress.” When  asked  why the PDP chairman in Lagos State, Doherty, was absent at the meeting, Makinde said: “You see, you don’t jump the gun, it is one step at a time. We have come here to meet the stakeholders  with my father and leader here to move the party forward. I can give you the assurance that, the unity of the PDP in Lagos State is sacrosanct  right now. “We are also putting the APC on notice that they need to prepare for what is coming in Lagos,” Governor Makinde said. Commenting on the outcome of the meeting, Chief George said the reconciliation committee spoke brilliantly and solutions that would be worked upon proffered, to move the party forward. He explained that the PDP leadership would need the kind of wisdom applied by biblical Solomon, in respect of the two women claiming ownership of same baby to resolve the matter on ground. Chief George was however, hopeful  that the crisis rocking the Lagos PDP chapter would be resolved based on the fact that the party was blessed with leaders and not emperors. “We have the solution that we have all agreed on. Unless you want to deceive yourself, there will always be issues, but it will take the grace of the Almighty for you to be able to resolve whatever differences we have. And we spoke brilliantly, they spoke and we proffered solutions we would come out and accept,so that we can work together,” he said. Sounding optimistic about the reconciliation move  George  sad “It would work. Yes they erred, that’s why they went to him (Secondus) to come and talk to calm all the frayed nerves, now because in the end, is there anybody that is infalible? That is the beauty of politics, we don’t have emperor in our party, we have leaders who consult and whatever is suggested here would be implemented.” Gbadamosi, in his own remark, dismissed the  rumours making rounds that his returning  to PDP was  blocked by certain forces in the party. “I think it is important to avoid the activities of rumour mongers. There would always be people out there who would always try to steer up and forment trouble. “Engineer Doherty is a very good brother and a very good friend of mine, and he invited me to the party. Chief Bode George also invited me.  In fact, I came to see Chief Bode George and discussed with him. He welcomed me with open arms and said do the needful and I interpreted that to mean I needed to return home,” Gbadamosi said. However,faulting the meeting and describing it as inconsequential,Chief Willie Akinlude,a chieftain of the party said,Oyo State Governor did not come to Lagos for a reconciliation meeting rather he came to have a parley with Chief George because if it were to be a reconciliation meeting,the party stakeholders ought to be in attendance. He added that,if he was serious about reconciling the party,he needs to have a parley with members of other group,after that he should call a general meeting that involves people from both sides. “That was not a reconciliation meeting. Governor  Makinde only came to Lagos to have a parley with Chief Bode George. “Makinde is not doing the right thing because,if it were to be a reconciliation meeting, you would find the party stakeholders there. Did you see Engineer Deji Doherty at the meeting? Neither did you see Dr. Abimbola Ogunkelu not Jimi Agbaje,ditto Tunji Shelle, I was not there also.” Giving a way out of the conundrum,Chief Akinlude said,”as he has started,he should try and parley with the other group,after that he needs to call a general meeting that will involve all stakeholders and carry everybody along,” he submitted. The hope of Lagos PDP lies in how it manages the crisis rocking it, if its members are committed to the advancement of the party, there is the need for compromise, but a situation where an individual or a group of people sees themselves as infallible and that,they should always have their way at all times,then the party is doomed. There is the need to watch out for moles within the party, because where such people abound in an establishment, success can never be recorded. What matters to them is doing the bid of their master, which is inimical to the growth and advancement of the party. The message of Makinde to the ruling party in the state, APC, is that it should be ready to quit power in 2023, because the PDP is being repositioned and will be quantified on how successful he was in his assignment of reconciling the party members, or his threat should be taken as a mere rhetoric. 