Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum has visited Maiduguri Zonal Office of the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) where he inspected 10,522 kilograms of cannabis seized by the Command before destruction. The Governor while commending efforts of the NDLEA officials and other security agencies in the fight against consumption of illicit drugs, assured his administration’s determination to support the agency in all ramifications. Zulum insisted that, considering the challenges facing the state, his administration would do everything possible to eradicate drug abuse and other social vices amongst teaming youths in the state, adding that, there can only be safe and crime free society when the desired collaborative efforts exist between government, NDLEA and the governed. He noted that with collaboration at all levels, social problems such as Boko Haram and poverty which is the root cause of insurgency can be eliminated out of the state. The governor said :” I want to commend the efforts of the NDLEA officials and other security agencies in the fight against consumption of illicit drugs, and I assured you that this administration is determined to support the agency in all ramifications. “Considering the challenges facing the state, this administration would do everything possible to eradicate drug abuse and other social vices amongst teaming youths in the state, this is because, there can only be safe and crime free society when the desired collaborative efforts exist between government, NDLEA and the governed. “Therefore, with collaboration at all levels, social problems such as Boko Haram and poverty which is the root causes of insurgency can be eliminated out of the state.” Zulum noted. Earlier, the Commandant of the NDLEA, Mr. Icha Joseph who recieved the governor and his entourage said, the drugs were seized by his team at Mai Dokiri, adjacent Borno State Environmental Protection Agency (BOSEPA) office complex in Maiduguri metropolis. He told the governor that the suspects are already in the custody of the Command, while some have been declared wanted. The Commandant however expressed gratitude to the government and the people of the state for their untiring efforts to rid the state of illicit drugs. End