As part of measures to contain the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic amongst the internally displaced persons (IDPs), the Borno State government has restricted movement of visitors to all the camps for  the next four weeks. The chairperson of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Hajiya Yabawa Kolo, announced the restriction yesterday during a meeting with 51 camp managers in Maiduguri, the state capital. Kolo said that the measure was part of the government’s modalities to strengthen prevention of the virus from coming into the state. She said that the restriction was necessary following announcement of some suspected cases of the virus in neighbouring Republics of Chad and Cameroon. She explained that despite closure of the borders by the neighbouring countries, there were still influx of IDPs into the state. She also directed camp managers from Gamboru-Ngala, Damasak, Kalabalge, Banki, Bama and Monguno not to accept IDPs from any neighbouring country into the camps. The SEMA Boss said that “we know we have a lot of threat around us following sighting of suspected cases of the virus in Cameroon and Chad and we have some border towns very close to these countries. “We do not want to go to the issue of response because even in developed countries, it was difficult for them to contain this pandemic. So, at our own level, we are positioning ourselves to see how best we can stop the virus from transmitting in the state. “In addition at the border points, Ministry of Health, SEMA and UNHCR, will ensure that the surveillance committee are provided with all the necessary support toward ensuring that whoever is coming in and out is properly screened of their health and their travel history,” she said. The SEMA chairperson said that the agency was partnering with INTERSOS, CCCM, IOM, UNHCR, NEMA, WHO and the Ministry of Health to implement government’s strategy of enhancing protection. She said that the agency would also train the camp managers to educate the IDPs on preventive modalities against coronavirus. On food distribution in the IDPs camp, Kolo said the agency had adopted house-to-house food distribution to discourage overcrowding.  Also speaking, project manager, INTERSOS, Gerard Van-Mourik, said the agency had commenced early morning hand-washing mobilisation drive in Monguno, Ngala, Bama and Damasak IDPs camps to promote good hygiene practices. Van-Mourik said that the agency had started relocating the IDPs in crowded areas in Ngala and Monguno. “We are relocating over 12,000 residents who are living in too crowded extension to a more conducive extension,” he said.