Chief Audu Ogbe is the new chairman of National Working Committee (NWC) of the apex northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF). In this report, ISAIAH BENJAMIN writes on the expectations from the new leadership. The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) last week got a new set of leadership with a former Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbe, emerging as the chairman of the group’s National Working Committee (NWC). The membership of the Forum is drawn from the 19 northern states and its headquarters is situated in Kaduna being the headquarters of the defunct northern region. Will Chief Ogbe from Benue State, a minority among the northern states get the required support from all the other states that pride themselves as ‘Core North’ when certain decisions are to be taken? Perhaps, all factors have been put into consideration before he was picked as the most preferred candidate to be saddled with that responsibility of a chairman of an influential group like ACF. Although when the list of the new leadership of the Forum was ratified by its General Assembly, Chief Ogbe was not in attendance and has not said anything since he was pronounced the new ACF NWC chairman. Silence, it is often said, could mean consent but in some cases, it could also mean otherwise. ACF is not only a pressure group but also a platform to foster unity in northern Nigeria and beyond. One of the major challenges of the Forum as identified by the outgone Secretary-General, Mr. Anthony Sani, during his report to the General Assembly. is paucity of funds needed for the running affairs of the Forum for optimal performance. He informed the congress that the lack of funds limited the frequency of meetings of both the NWC and the National Executive Council (NEC) from monthly to bi-monthly, same as the number of meetings of Standing and Ad-hoc Committees as well as of sub-committees. He equally informed Assembly that due to the dearth of sources of funds, the outgone leadership prior to the coming on board of the Chief Ogbe’s leadership could only authorised the audit of the Forum’s accounts for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 respectively, stressing that the audit of accounts for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019 could be made when the financial position of the Forum improves. It is, therefore, apparent that the new ACF leadership under Chief Ogbe will contend with the same challenge of finances as the previous leadership of the Forum. Another challenge for the new leadership is the urgent need to see to the immediate registration of the Forum. In the same report by the outgone Secretary-General, he stated that “it is pertinent for me to inform you (General Assembly) that the Forum applied for registration with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) which was declined because of some misinformation arising from mistaken identity.” He, however, said the outgone leadership had already responded to clarify the position of the Forum in that regard and was still waiting for decision of the relevant authorities before their tenure expired. It is, therefore, expected that the new leadership will swing into action to see to the immediate registration of the Forum. The new Chief Ogbe-led NWC will also need to understand the vision of ACF as an umbrella body for all Northerners irrespective of religion, tribe and political persuasions and key into the objectives of the Forum. Because the NWC comprises completely new members, some of whom have never been part of the ACF, they will need proper induction to understand the workings of the Forum in order to meaningfully contribute to the realisation of its objectives. They will also need to connect with the Forum’s major stakeholders, patrons, Northern state governors, traditional rulers and other prominent northerners so as to devise means of getting the founding fathers and members to come back and participate in the Forum’s activities. Again, the NWC will need to strengthen relationship with other socio-cultural organisations in the county in order to sustain the unity and corporate existence of Nigeria as a united country and also divorce itself from partisan politics, but get involved in politics for the benefits of the North. Also the zoning policy of ACF was alleged to have been jettisoned in the leadership selection process, as positions that were to shift to the North-west were retained in the North-east zone despite the fact that the North-west zoned elected competent persons to the positions. More so the Selection Committee’s list was again alleged to have been manipulated to satisfy the wishes of the ACF leadership which led to a serious uproar from the zones during the joint meeting of the BoT and NEC held on March 10, 2020, especially from Kano, Taraba, Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto, and Kogi states on the selection of unknown persons to the ACF family.  The new ACF chairman, therefore, need to reach out to the aggrieved states and douse the tension. The NEC also need to reactivate the standing committees like one on Security, Education, Agriculture and Planning & Research in order to provide meaningful suggestions on the way forward for the North. As it stands today, ACF, according to some schools of thought, is seen to speak only when an issue affects some parts of the North and keep silent when it affects other parts of the North, a narrative that certainly need to be corrected going forward, such that all should be given a sense of belonging regardless of their religion, tribe or ethnicity. They opined that criminality of any kind in any part of the North and Nigeria as a whole should be condemned without fear or favour. There is no doubt that a lot is being expected from the new leadership of ACF under Chief Ogbe. It is expected that he alongside other NWC and NEC members will bring their wealth of experience in both public and private sectors to bear on changing the tides for the better of ACF. According to a popular cliché ‘to whom much is given, much is equally being expected’, whether or not Chief Ogbe and his team will live up to expectations and the confidence reposed in them by the General Assembly, only time will tell. 