Barely 24 hours after the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) assured Nigerians that there was enough petrol to last the country for 60 days, fuel queues yesterday surfaced in Abuja, Lagos and some states of the federation. Except for a few major ones, independent oil marketers in the country shut down their filling stations and hoarded the product. In the FCT, fuel stations along the Kubwa – Zuba axis were locked and refused to dispense products. The development compelled the national president of the Independent Petroleum Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Elder Chinedu Okoronkwo, to direct his members nationwide to open their filling stations for service. In a statement he issued yesterday, National Operations Controller of IPMAN, Mr Mike Osatuyi, reminded marketers that restriction on CONID-19 did not apply to food processing, distribution, retail companies and petroleum distribution and retailing petroleum stations nationwide Osatuyi recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari in his broadcast to the nation on Sunday empahsised that petroleum distribution and retailing were not included. He said,  ”All members of the association should work with other stakeholders in the downstream sector in ensuring seamless operation in loading in both private depots and NNPC depots nationwide. The Federal Government has assured security for our staff and members who are serving the country at this trying moment”. Osatuyi enjoined all IPMAN staff and members to wear their identification card or their filling station company identification card in for proper screening on the road and highway. “The National Executive Committee of IPMAN commended members nationwide and advise them to sell petrol at N125 approved price. IPMAN also stands with all Nigerians and the Federal Government in this trying period”, he stated. Osatuyi commended the management of NNPC under the leadership of Mallam Mele Kyari, the Group Managing Director for assuring marketers of sufficient and prompt petroleum distribution The NNPC GMD, Kyari, had on Sunday urged Nigerians not to engage in panic buying of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), as the country had adequate stock of the products to last for over 60-days. Kyari assured that the NNPC had the support of all stakeholders to ensure adequate supply of petroleum products in the country. He said, “There is absolutely no scarcity anywhere; our supply is robust, we have fuel that will last this country even for 60-days if assuming we do not import any. But following President Buhari’s broadcast in which he announced shutdown of FCT, Lagos and Ogun States, residents of Abuja resorted to panic buying of food stuff and other essential household items to last them for the 14 days. Some of the residents lined up in the banks, especially at the ATM points to withdraw cash, while some motorists queued at the filling stations to buy fuel. At Utako market, it was like carnival as many residents swamped the markets to purchase what they would need for the lockdown period. Even though some of the shops were closed, our reporter who visited the some of the observed that sellers of food items had a field day as they kept entertaining many customers. One of the residents, Mariam Yusuf, told LEADERSHIP that she had to buy foodstuff yesterday since the government had already said all businesses and movements would be restricted as from 11:00pm. “I have to come out to buy the food stuff I need in the family because of President Muhammadu Buhari’s announcement that from tomorrow, all movements and business activities would be restricted. So, I have to buy the much food stuff I need so as to be on the safer side.” At the premises of Zenith Bank in EFAB Plaza in Area 11, there was crowd in the banking hall, with customers lining in a long queue to do their banking transactions. A customer, who gave his name as Emma Onoja, told LEADERSHIP that he had no choice than to cue up because might not have the same opportunity to engage in the banking business today because of the planned lockdown, which involves restriction of movements and close of businesses. Onoja said that even though the government had said that banks would be open for business, he was in doubt that it would be possible following the restriction of movements. “I have to conduct this banking transaction today because by tomorrow there won’t be any movement and for most people it is not going to be easy for them. Banks may be open, but how do you access it when movements are not allowed”, he tstaed At the Oando filling station in Jabi district, there was also a long queue as motorists lined up to buy fuel. It was gathered that many filling stations in town were not selling fuel, as they remained under lock and key. At the Oando Filling Station only two points were open to motorists to buy fuel. One of the motorists, Tunde Bolaji told our reporter that the filling station was the third he had visited in search fuel to buy. “My brother, I don’t know what is happening in this country. Can you imagine that this is the third filling station I have visited today to buy fuel without success?  I don’t know if government is going to stop the supply of fuel, which must have caused this scarcity.” In Lagos, residents also rushed to the markets and shops to purchase essential commodities. The last minute shopping was compounded by vehicular traffic and congestion on the ever busy Lagos roads. At some markets and supermarkets in Lagos on Monday, many residents struggled to stock up their homes with essentials to last the two-week period they are expected to stay at home with their families. Traders selling food stuff, vegetables and fruits in Mile 23, Ketu Sura on the Island and Ipodo market in Ikeja considered the busiest in the state enjoyed huge patronage. The buyers and sellers in the market, e majority seen using face masks and hand gloves, lamented the hardship the outbreak of coronavirus has unleashed on them. One of the market women who gave her name simply as Mrs Abayomi told LEADERSHIP that although the lockdown of Lagos was necessary because of the increasing number of people infected by the deadly disease, “the people will suffer from the decision. “I came here with the little money I have to buy foodstuff that my family will eat. Government is telling us to go and stay inside our house with no work and no money. How will the people cope? Prices of foodstuff have gone up. To me, the way the government is handling the situation will likely expose the people to untold hardship. They must also have to check activities of criminals this period. “A bag of rice is now N31,000 from N27,000. A measure of rice, which used to be N300, now cost about N650. A measure of garri which used to go for N150 is now N250 price, while a bag now goes for N9,000, against the usual N5,000”, she lamented.