… Sets Up Awareness Committee The Rivers State government has denied reports on social media that there is an outbreak of Coronavirus in the state. Social media space had been awashed with report of a Nigerian who returned from Houston Texas on February 22, 2020, who got admitted at Prime Medical Services, Port Harcourt, after showing symptoms of the dreaded virus. The report said the patient was on Thursday evening referred to the Accident and Emergency Department of the University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital (UPTH). However, the authorities of Prime Medical Services, in a statement made available to newsmen denied ever admitting any patient with Coronavirus symptom or referring anyone to the UPTH. But, addressing newsmen in his office in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State Commissioner for Health, Professor Princewill Chike, said there is no such case in any hospital in the state. Meanwhile, the Rivers State Executive Council has set up a committee to create awareness for the prevention of coronavirus in the state. State Commissioner of Information and Communication, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim told journalists that the State Executive Council meeting presided over by Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike Thursday, approved the 5-Member Executive Council committee. Nsirim said: “The State Executive Council reviewed the global pandemic and set up a 5-Member committee to carry out an aggressive awareness campaign on the prevention of coronavirus. “Members of the committee are the Commissioner for Information and Communication, Paulinus Nsirim (Chairman), Commissioner for Health, Prof Chike Princewill (Member), Commissioner for Environment,  Dr Igbiks Tamuno (Member), Commissioner for Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, Barrister Olisa Tasie-Amadi (Member) and Commissioner for Youth Affairs, Ohia Prince (Member). “This committee is to ensure that citizens of the State in the 23 Local Government areas get adequate information that will stop them from contracting the virus. “We also use this opportunity to inform members of the public that they need to practice elementary hygiene. They should use hand sanitizers to prevent contracting the virus.” 