Faced with growing calls for a new date due to global coronavirus pandemic, the organisers of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games have postponed the twin events till next year. The event, earlier scheduled for 24th July, this year, will now hold “not later than summer 2021.” “I proposed to postpone for a year and (IOC) president Thomas Bach responded with 100 per cent agreement,” Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, said. The event will still be called Tokyo 2020 despite taking place in 2021. Also yesterday, India’s Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, ordered all the 1.3 billion people in the country to stay at home for three weeks starting from today. It is described as the biggest and most severe action taken anywhere to stop the spread of the coronavirus. In a joint statement, the organisers of Tokyo 2020 and the IOC, said: “The unprecedented and unpredictable spread of the outbreak has seen the situation in the rest of the world deteriorating. “On Monday, the director-general of the World Health Organisation (WHO), Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said that the COVID-19 pandemic is “accelerating”. “There are more than 375,000 cases now recorded worldwide and in nearly every country, and their number is growing by the hour. “In the present circumstances and based on the information provided by the WHO today (Tuesday), the IOC president and the prime minister of Japan have concluded that the Games of the XXXII Olympiad in Tokyo must be rescheduled to a date beyond 2020 but not later than summer 2021, to safeguard the health of the athletes, everybody involved in the Olympic Games and the international community,” the statement noted. While the Games is the biggest sporting event to be affected by the pandemic, there has been a huge impact on a host of other major tournaments and sports: The IOC had given itself a deadline of four weeks to consider delaying the Games but there had been mounting pressure from a host of Olympic committees and athletes demanding a quicker decision. Canada became the first major country to withdraw from both events on Sunday, while USA Track and Field, athletics’ US governing body, had also called for a postponement. The International Paralympic Committee president, Andrew Parsons, said thatthe postponementwas “the only logical option.” He added: “The health and wellbeing of human life must always be our number-one priority and staging a sporting event of any kind during this pandemic is simply not possible. “Sport is not the most important thing right now, preserving human life is. It is essential, therefore, that all steps are taken to try to limit the spread of this disease. “By taking this decision now, everyone involved in the Paralympic movement, including all Para-athletes, can fully focus on their own health and wellbeing and staying safe during this unprecedented and difficult time.” The Olympics have never been delayed in their 124-year modern history, though they were cancelled altogether in 1916, 1940 and 1944 during World War One and World War Two. Major Cold War boycotts disrupted the Moscow and Los Angeles summer Games in 1980 and 1984. The Tokyo 2020-IOC statement continued: “The leaders agreed that the Olympic Games in Tokyo could stand as a beacon of hope to the world during these troubled times and that the Olympic flame could become the light at the end of the tunnel in which the world finds itself at present. “Therefore, it was agreed that the Olympic flame will stay in Japan. It was also agreed that the Games will keep the name Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020.” British Olympic Association chief executive Andy Anson said: “It would have been unthinkable for us to continue to prepare for an Olympic Games at a time the nation and the world no less is enduring great hardship. A postponement is the right decision.” British Paralympics Association chief executive Mike Sharrock said: “Stemming this global public health crisis and doing everything possible to safeguard the health and wellbeing of people should clearly take priority in these unprecedented times. “We welcome the clarity this now gives Paralympic athletes throughout the world who have had their training and qualification plans severely disrupted.” On 22nd January, Olympic qualifying events in boxing and women’s football that were due to be held in Wuhan, China – the centre of the coronavirus outbreak – became the first to be moved or postponed. There are almost 400,000 recorded cases of the virus worldwide, with the number of deaths approaching 17,000. While announcing the lockdown of India, Prime Minister Modi said: “There will be a total ban of coming out of your homes,” the, announced on television Tuesday night, giving Indians less than four hours’ notice before the order took effect at 12:01 a.m. “Every state, every district, every lane, every village will be under lockdown,” Mr. Modi said. The breadth and depth of such a challenge is staggering in a country where hundreds of millions of citizens are destitute and countless millions live in packed urban areas with poor sanitation and weak public health care. Though India’s number of reported coronavirus infections remains relatively low – around 500 – the fear is that, should the virus hit as it has in the United States, Europe or China, the consequences would lead to a disaster far bigger than anywhere else. The nationwide lockdown followed a series of decrees that had been steadily growing more stringent, and some people had been expecting Mr. Modi to announce something even more severe, like a nationwide state of emergency and declaration of martial law. Hours before Modi’s televised address, the long straight boulevards of New Delhi, the capital, resembled deserted racetracks. All the stores in the center of town were shut, but in the poorer neighborhoods just outside of the city, it was a different story. People were still out, jostling with one another in narrow lanes and still crowding into bus shelters, sleeping eight to a room in shabby tenements, and showing the impossibility of maintaining social distance. Long lines of migrant workers streamed out of recently closed railway stations, with thousands of men, almost none wearing masks, marching close together to far-off villages, potentially spreading the virus deep into the countryside. As midnight approached in New Delhi, lone figures walked down the edges of the main roads, carrying bulging plastic sacks of food – the last of the shopping before the decree took effect. NECO Postpones National Common Entrance Examination Back home, the National Examination Council (NECO) has postponed the National Common Entrance Examination (NCEE) for federal government colleges and unity schools scheduled to hold next Saturday. The decision by the council was in compliance to measures being taken by the federal and state governments to curtail the spread of Coronavirus in the country. Rational fear, anxiety and apprehension heightened among Nigerians yesterday as the number of persons infected with coronavirus rose to 44 from the 40 cases reported on Monday. In a statement he issued yesterday, the Council’s Head of Information and Public Relations, Mallam Azeez Sani, appealed to the NCEE candidates to bear with the council for any inconvenience the postponement might have caused them. Noting that a new date for the exam will be announced in due course, he however said that the registration for the examination continues. LEADERSHIP recalls that the Niger state government had imposed curfew on the state as part of measure to curb the spread of coronavirus. It was learnt that the council, with over 300 staff at the headquarters in Minna, may have shut down its office to protect its workers who often travel for examination monitoring, marking and accreditation from being exposed to the virus. Meanwhile, there is palpable fear among prominent Nigerians following the number of high profile persons said to have reportedly come in contact with infected persons Among the new cases confirmed yesterday, two are from Lagos and Ogun States. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), on its twitter handle, said, „One case is a returning traveller. The second case is contact of a previously confirmed case”. The other two cases are one from the FCT and another one from Bauchi State who, according to the NCDC have travel history to Germany and the UK respectively. „As at 06:25 pm on 24th March, there are 44 confirmed cases of #COVID19 in Nigeria. Two have been discharged with one death“, NCDC added. Nigerians are not just disturbed only by the increasing number of the victims, but the drastic measures announced by the federal and state governments, which point to a total lockdown of the country. One of their major concerns is the looming hunger in the land, as the stringent measures put in place to avoid spread of the virus seem to be denying the citizens access to necessities and means of livelihood. Besides, since the Nigerian economy is largely driven by the informal sector where most of the people earn their daily incomes, there are concerns that a total lockdown would cripple business activities in the country. JAMB Suspends Operation Also, the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) yesterday suspended services requiring physical contacts in its offices and centres nationwide for two weeks as part of measures to prevent the spread of the dreaded coronavirus. The board also suspended all services requiring biometric verification indefinitely. This was disclosed in statement signed by JAMB’s head of media and information, Dr Fabian Benjamin. He said, “This is to inform all candidates and members of the general public that, in line with professional advice of government on safety of all persons in relation to the Covid -19 pandemic, the board has temporarily suspended all activities requiring physical contacts in its offices and centres nationwide. All services requiring biometric verification are suspended till further notice. “This situation will be reviewed regularly and as soon as the circumstance permits, all suspended services would be resolved without delay. Meanwhile, the board has upgraded its ticketing online services which are available to attend to enquiries, complaints and to handle some services. “Candidates can access the services on the board’s website www.jamb.org.ng and also through candidates’ profile. Enquiries and complaints can be lodged on support.jamb.gov.ng. The general public is assured of prompt and adequate services online”. NAS Shuts Down, Lawmakers Demand Decisive Action Meanwhile, the National Assembly yesterday been shut down for two weeks following the rapid spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the nation‘s capital city. The Senate is likely to resume on April 7, 2020 if there is no national emergency. The resolution to shut down the legislature was reached during a closed session at the upper chamber. President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, announced the development after the meeting which lasted for about 40 minutes. Giving details of what transpired during the closed door session, Lawan said lawmakers unanimously agreed that the National Assembly adjourn plenary for a period of two weeks due to the coronavirus pandemic which has led to most countries shutting down activities so as to curtail the spread of the disease. He, however, assured that the Senate will reconvene to attend to matters of national importance that require urgent legislative intervention within the period the National Assembly will be on recess. He stated: “The Senate in particular, and the National Assembly in general, further resolved to adjourn sitting for two weeks, from today, due to the pandemic of Coronavirus ravaging the entire world  and the entire world, and therefore, the Senate resumes on the 7th of April. “However, the Senate will be on hand in case of emergency in any national issue that requires its attention”. The Senate President further advised Nigerians to observe all preventive measures recommended by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). While calling on the federal government to immediately set aside a special intervention fund to curtail the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria, the Senate president advocated for the release of financial assistance to states for the same purpose. “As at now the only way out of the pandemic is for the population to observe recommended measures/advices by the National Centre or Disease Control (NCDC). The federal government should devote special funds to fight the COVID-19 virus threatening Nigeria. Also, the Federal Government should give financial and other resource assistance to the states in the fight against the virus,” he said. Lawan added that, “the Senate committee on Health and Private Healthcare and Communicable Diseases will continue to engage the Federal Ministry of Health and Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Meanwhile, the Senate before adjourning plenary on Tuesday held a minute silence in honour of Senator Rose Oko, who until her death represented Cross River North Senatorial district in the National Assembly. The lawmaker died on Monday in a medical facility while undergoing treatment in the United Kingdom. At the Green Chamber, the Speaker of the House of the Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, announced that the importance of the management of the possible socio-economic consequences of the raging coronavirus was the reason behind the drastic steps taken by the House, including adjourning plenary for fourteen days. Gbajabiamila explained that being a new disease that has taken the world by surprise with emerging socio-economic consequences, the House could not afford to pretend that Nigeria would be insulated from global reactions. In a press statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker explained why the House took it upon itself to explore all alternatives. He said, “We gather here today in uncertain times for our country and indeed for the whole of humanity. We are affronted by a new and deadly disease that threatens to forever alter the nature of our lives. We do not know how this virus and the disease it delivers have come to be. “We do not yet have a cure for this disease or a vaccine to protect against the virus. What we do know is that over the last six months, hundreds of thousands of people have been infected all over the world, thousands have died, and the world economy is experiencing a contraction, unlike anything we have seen in recent history. “It now falls to us, the government of the people to act quickly and decisively to forestall the worst consequences of a nightmare that has been made real. Before now, all the efforts of the government have been focused on preventing an outbreak in the country by enforcing a robust screening regime at our ports of entry. “It is now clear that the time has come for us to develop and implement a more robust strategy, one that prepares us for the possibility of a significant outbreak with all the calamity that entails. We are glad that the government is now doing exactly this. “We have never experienced a time like this. And we’re not alone. From the United States and North America to Europe and Asia, all the countries of the world are reacting to the challenge of the moment by adopting aggressive approaches to managing the outbreak of the disease and radical interventions to protect their people from the additional ravages of a global economy that no longer adheres to the old expectations that have underpinned our planning, our projections, and expectations. “We owe it to our people to be just as aggressive and just as radical if doing so is what it will take to save our nation and prevent the tragedies of death, destitution, and devastation that threaten us all”. While disclosing that the House will adjourn for 14 days in the first instance, the Speaker emphasized that it is not a holiday, but an act of necessity in furtherance of the social distancing and isolation guidelines that have proven to be effective in preventing secondary transmission of the Covid – 19 disease. He said: “The leadership of the House will continue to observe developments and respond as the circumstances demand. If it becomes necessary, we may reconvene to act on emergency legislation and possible amendment of the Appropriation Act, 2020. “The Clerk of the National Assembly will maintain essential personnel to ensure full compliance with sanitation, health and safety requirements in the National Assembly. „All activities of the House of Representatives are suspended for the duration, whether those activities are scheduled to occur within the National Assembly or outside of it. Members are enjoined to show faithful leadership by restricting all nonessential movements and observing self-isolation and social distancing according to the guidelines of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC)”. Also, in response to the outbreak and rapid spread of coronavirus in the country, the House of Representatives has directed the Federal Ministry of Education to immediately make available hostels in the now-vacated federal government colleges across the country for use as emergency care centres and isolation units by the ministry and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). This directive is to come in place „if it becomes necessary to do so to manage high number of people requiring treatment from the Covid 19 disease.“ The House mandated the ministry and the NCDC to immediately develop contingency plans for the establishment of emergency care facilities at the federal government colleges which should include cost estimates for the provision of equipment, material, medicines and other such requirements as may become necessary The decision forms part of the resolutions contained in a motion of urgent national importance on the need for the federal government to adopt emergency measures to protect the people and economy of Nigeria from the potentially site consequences of coronavirus among the population, sponsored by Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, yesterday. In his debate, Gbajabiamila noted that Covid-19 disease caused by the novel coronavirus has emerged as the most significant threat to the physical, mental and economic wellbeing of the people and nations of the world. He said the alarming levels of spread and severity of the disease have caused the World Health Organisation (WHO) to rightly classify the outbreak of Covid-19 as a pandemic, as the spread of the disease has now reached every corner of the world with 341,000 recorded infections and 14,700 deaths globally. He said these numbers continue to increase rapidly, almost on an hourly basis, even as he noted that the novelty of „the disease combined with its rapid spread has caught the world almost unawares and there is, for the most part, no preexisting framework for managing the short, medium and long term consequences of the pandemic. “As such we are left to adopt and implement emergency measures on the fly and in the expectation that our efforts may help to avert the worst consequences of this new threat. The existing healthcare framework and facilities in the country are not sufficiently robust to provide an effective and lifesaving response in the likely event of a large scale outbreak of the Covid-19 disease within our shores. “We do not have enough hospital beds, Intensive Care Units, respirators, testing kits, thermal disinfection equipment and personal protective equipment (PPE). We are also short on the numbers of medical personnel required to manage a significant national outbreak of the disease”. In adopting the motion, the House also asked the Federal Ministry of Health and the NCDC to rapidly scale up testing capabilities through the establishment of nationwide resting centres so that government can begin to determine the actual numbers of Nigerians who are already carriers of the disease. It further directed the Federal Ministry of Health to work with the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN) and other such stakeholders to develop plans for the deployment of a corps of doctors and medical professionals to these emergency care centres as the need arises. It urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as part of its policy measures in response to coronavirus to act urgently to fully fund the establishment and operations of these emergency health centres across the country. Furthermore, the green chamber equally resolved to invite the Governor and senior management of the CBN to brief the leadership of the House on the details of the apex bank‘s policy measures in response to the Covid–19 outbreak, including the procedure and requirements for the disbursement of earmarked intervention funds under the emergency policy measure. FG Alerts On False App, Immigration Enforces Border Closure Directive The federal government has alerted Nigerians to the existence of it described as android-based malicious and fraudulent coronavirus Ransomware application, which claims to provide update on the virus and infections near the user. A statement issued in Abuja yesterday, the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said the Ransomware blocks access to users‘ personal data and accounts and threatens deletion, unless users pay $100 in Bitcoin within 48 hours. He said the Ransomware App, detected on the website, www.coronavirusapp.site, prompts users to download an android app purportedly for coronavirus map tracking and heat map visuals. Mohammed said the development confirms warnings against cyber criminals seeking to exploit the growing spread of the virus for nefarious gains. He called on the general public not to download the Ransomware app and to seek updates on the pandemic only from the appropriate authorities. Meanwhile, the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Immigration Service, Muhammad Babandede, has directed total compliance with the federal government directive on International flights restriction into Nigeria and subsequent Closure of the Land Border to safeguard the lives and well-being of Nigerians and Non-Nigerians in view of the continuous spread of coronavirus. Babandede’s directive came at the instance of the land border closure directive and the need to enforce total lockdown of airport, seaport and land border frontiers to curtail and contain the spread of the virus. The NIS said coronavirus can be reduced by the control of human mobility across the borders and within for those that must have travelled who needs to observe an isolation period on return to the country. NSE Suspends Trading Floor, Moves Stockbrokers To E-platform Meanwhile, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has said it will be temporarily closing down all its trading floors under a 30-day emergency response plan to the continuing spread of Coronavirus. It stated that stockbrokers will, however, continue to trade using their remote platforms, noting that the plan will also see NSE’s staff working through various digital platforms. Chief executive officer of the NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema, in a circular, said the remote working plan was in response to significant growth in new cases. He noted: “Over three weeks ago, we activated precautionary health measures across our offices where we screened visitors with thermometers, provided sanitises and minimise access into our premises. “Further to this and with the significant growth in new cases, effective March 24, 2020, we have activated a 30-day remote working plan for our employees excluding essential staff. In order to give our dealing members enough notice, effective March 25, 2020 all our trading floors will be temporarily closed, although remote trading will continue and NSE staff will be available through all our digital platforms to provide support.” Onyema explained that during this 30-day remote working plan, remote trading will continue and NSE staff will be available through all its digital platforms to provide support. He explained that all physical meetings within and outside NSE’s office premises have been suspended until further notice, while the Exchange has instructed its employees to leverage technological tools to conduct meetings virtually. According to him, in line with the Exchange’s robust business continuity management framework, it had put in place measures to ensure its operations and trading activities continue seamlessly throughout this period. He continued: “As an exchange, we will ensure that all relevant information continues to flow into the market to ensure the pricing of risk assets remains transparent and reliable across asset classes to allow investors to value their portfolios and make informed investment decisions under these volatile conditions. “Dealing members are encouraged to continue to trade remotely via our electronic platforms such as FIX protocol and XNET, and reach out to their compliance officer if any support is required.” He also added that issuers who have any business to conduct with the Exchange can reach out to their Relationship manager for guidance, saying “you should continue to submit all regulatory filings via Issuers’ Portal (X-Issuer). “As the Exchange embraces social distancing as prescribed by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), we have further engaged with the federal government on issues of Annual General Meetings, maturing financial instruments, financial reporting, to mention a few and appropriate updates will be provided in due course”, he added. Hunger Looms As States, FCT Close Markets, Malls There is growing concern over impending hunger in the land as more states and the federal capital territory yesterday ordered the closure of all markets and stores. Some of the states however exempted markets selling food, water, drugs and other essential life – saving products with effect. Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who briefed journalists after meetings with critical stakeholders in the state in Lagos House, Marina, ordered eateries to henceforth shutdown in-house service and resume takeaways. Sanwo-Olu also said some of the schools closed down may be converted to temporary markets for selling of basic items including food items so that residents can access to them. The governor explained that the orders was in line with efforts of the state government to deepen the containment of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic, warning that law enforcement will be going about to enforce strict compliance to the directives. Earlier, the national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu said the party will back the governor if there was need for him to order total lockdown of the state. The former governor who had a meeting with Governor Sanwo-Olu at State House, Marina, said the leadership of the party was happy with the manner the governor was handling the situation, saying the governor has the full backing of the party. Tinubu said, „If the government decides there is need for total lockdown, I am in support of it. He has our support. We have reviewed it with him and he‘s also reviewing it with his cabinet. “I congratulate the government of Lagos State for what has been done so far about regular information on the mysterious disease. Nigeria needs a lot of education in this challenging period. We are facing mysterious enemy in Covard-19. “We need to observe that social distancing. It’s a new culture that we have to abide with. You must respect the governor‘s directive for the workers to stay at home particularly our students and market women. “We must obey the government. We thank religious leaders who have asked their followers to follow the governor directives, both Muslims and Christians alike.“ Also, Kogi State coronavirus task force, otherwise known as Squadron, yesterday closed down markets in the state until further notice. A statement by the state commissioner for Information and Communication, Hon Kingsley Fanwo, noted that the COVID-19 Squadron team under the leadership of the deputy governor, Chief Edward Onoja, went round some parts of the state yesterday to enforce the directives of the governor aimed at keeping people at home to ensure social distancing in order to curb the spread of the deadly virus. Fanwo said, „The Committee members were at the International Market to meet with the leadership of the market and the traders. They were made to know that the decision of the Committee to temporarily close down the market was in the best interest of the people in the face of the global pandemic. “The Committee was able to get the buy-in of the major stakeholders of the market, with a resolution by all parties that the market will be effectively closed down with effect from tomorrow, Wednesday 25th March, 2020 until further notice“. The commissioner noted however that the committee also directed all senior special assistants to the governor in the various local government areas to handle government directives with human face. He continued: “however, in order to save the lives of our people from the pandemic, enforcement of the directives is key. “We also wish to state unequivocally that no one in the State has been tested positive for the Coronavirus. The Committee urges the public to disregard the fake news doing the round about the status of some key public officials in the State. “Government officials who recently returned from affected countries are currently undergoing the process of ascertaining their status as all of them have been isolated even before the results of their tests are out. “We also wish to affirm the leadership of the Governor in his avowed determination to ensure Kogi is safe in the heat of the global pandemic. He is currently leading by example by working from home. He expects all Kogites to do same. “The State‘s Containment/Isolation Center has been put in shape by the State Ministry of Health to ensure we are capable of dealing with any eventuality. „The ban on congregations stand as people found to be violating the directive will be dealt with decisively. We are also aware some schools are asking their students to come in mufti. Such schools will be sanctioned accordingly. “The Committee wishes to appeal to the citizens of the state to bear with Government in this trying period. The directives are for a while and not meant to punish the citizenry. It is our hope that our efforts will stave off the virus from Kogi State. Be rest assured that Government will stand by the citizens all the way“. On its part, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) announced the closure of shops in the markets and neighbourhood centres in the FCT to curtail the spread of the deadly coronavirus. FCT minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, who announced the closure during a press conference in Abuja yesterday added however that pharmacies and supermarkets involved in the sale of essential products and bakeries are exempted from the closure, but must abide strictly with laid down measures. Bello added that as part of implementing the social distance measures, the administration has also banned all gatherings in public parks, gardens, bars, night clubs, event and football viewing centres, amongst others, until further notice. The minister stated that the administration has taken the decision to enforce the stay-at-home policy for all its civil servants on grade level 01 to 12, until further notice, while those on essential services, such as water supply, fire service, security, medical services and emergency services, among others are exempted from the policy. He announced that the Zuba General Hospital would be converted into an isolation and treatment centre, to accommodate more patients, should the need arise, adding that other isolation and treatment facilities are also being prepared. Bello, however appreciated the leadership of both Christian and Muslim organizations in the FCT for their support and cooperation in ensuring compliance on the closure of all places of worship in the FCT. Also, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State yesterday directed all civil servants from Grade Level 12 and below to remain at home for the next 30 days, effective from Wednesday. Governor Lalong who made this known in a state broadcast said that the directive became necessary to prevent the spread of Coronavirus. The governor however said that workers providing essential services such as security, health, media, street cleaners and water supply and energy are exempted from this directive. Lalong said, „In view of the crowds associated with markets, government is directing all markets to close effective 25th March 2020. Only traders selling food items, pharmaceuticals and cooking gas are to remain open. “In addition, all street trading, street hawking, and begging are prohibited. The weekly Sunday markets at Ahmadu Bello Way, Bukuru and environs are hereby banned. “Social joints, Nightclubs, drinking parlours are to also close effective Wednesday 25th March 2020, while restaurants are advised to prepare take away for their customers to avoid crowding. „Motor parks are to capture and keep data including contacts of all inbound and outbound passengers as well as adhere strictly to social distancing and mass gathering prohibition order as well as hygiene regulations.“