The federal government and state governors will partner to set up functional test and isolation centres in every state in the country to curb the spread of the deadly coronavirus. This was disclosed by the chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum( NGF) , Kayode Fayemi after the meeting of the forum on Wednesday night in Abuja . He also disclosed that the forum has constituted a sub-committee consisting of the Govemors of Kaduna (Chair), Kebbi, Ebonyi, Ogun, Nasarawa, Edo and Jigawa to comprehensively review the trend of falling oil prices and advice state governments on the next set of actions required to address challenges in economy. He said “The Forum received an update on the COVID-l9 pandemic from the Honourable Minister of Health, Dr, E. Osagie Ehanire. Govemors pledged to work with the Ministry of Health to set up functional test and isolation centres in every State in the country. “After an extensive discussion of the impact of the COVID-l 9 pandemic and falling oil prices in the Nigerian economy and the revenues of States governments. “The Forum constituted a sub-committee consisting of the Govemors of Kaduna (Chair), Kebbi, Ebonyi, Ogun, Nasarawa, Edo and Jigawa to comprehensively review the trend and advice State govemments on the set of actions required to address challenges in economy. Also speaking to newsmen after the meeting , minister of health said the governors asked questions on the strategies the government is using to curb the spread of coronavirus . According to him “ to get the story of how Corona virus spread abroad and how it has come into Nigeria and what we have done so far. And they asked questions about our strategies, our approach and how it affects their states and our strategies and how they can have access to materials to be able to respond. “I did not need to make an effort to remind the governors on what they should do because they all offered to play a role which was very good. Infact they want to know the cost of building an isolation centres, the cost of the equipment and the kits. And they want us to present them with them cost tomorrow. We are happy that there is such engagement by the governors. “We have had eight cases that are confirmed and we are trying to manage information,” he added .