The Peace Corps of Nigeria (PCN) has said that it bears no grudges against any agency or individual after its predicaments in the past three years saying its ordeal in the hands of the Police is an act of God and a sacrifice that the organisation had to pay in the task of nation building. The national commandant, PCN, Ambassador Dickson Akoh made this known at a press briefing yesterday in Abuja after taking Journalists round the headquarters of the organisation after the building was unsealed by the police following a directive by the Attorney General and minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami, that the Police obey the subsisting and valid Judgment and Orders of the Federal High Court and vacate the headquarters building and its offices nationwide. The PCN headquarters building was seal up by the police in February 2017 when the edifice was being commissioned. Although most of the state-of-the-art equipment in the building vandalised, Akoh said notwithstanding what happened in the past, “we have collectively resolved to put the past challenges behind us and remain focused on how to embark on confidence building and institutional synergy with the Police and other relevant Agencies in the spirit of Patriotism”. Akoh further said: “In the aftermath of the Police sealing this office and the subsequent clamp down on our officers nationwide, as a law abiding Organisation, we were left with no other option than to institute a Fundamental Human Rights Enforcement Suit against the Nigeria Police before the Federal High Court, Abuja Division. In a well-considered landmark judgment, delivered in favour of the Peace Corps of Nigeria by the Presiding Judge, His Lordship, Hon. Justice Gabriel Kolawole on the 9th of November, 2017, the Court declared the action of the Police as illegal, unconstitutional, null and void. “The Court further gave a consequential Order that the Police vacate this property and our offices nationwide in addition to awarding the sum of Twelve Million Five Hundred Thousand Naira (N12, 500,000.00) only in favour of Peace Corps of Nigeria. Also, in the charges filed by the Police against the Incorporated Trustees of the Peace Corps of Nigeria and my humble self in the Federal High Court before His Lordship, Hon. Justice John Tsoho, on the 14th of February, 2018, the Court Ordered the Police to vacate this facility. Based on this twin Orders of the Court, the Federal Ministry of Justice on Two occasions intervened and wrote to the then Inspector General of Police, Mr Ibrahim Idris, to obey the Court orders, which he ignored with classical impunity. “While we viewed this intervention by the Federal Ministry of Justice as a vindication on our part, and the recourse to the rule of law by the Federal Government, we wish to place it on record that our experiences since our ordeal started on the 28th February, 2017 when this edifice was being commissioned, to say the least is highly traumatising and indeed a tortuous journey to achieving social justice. The Peace Corps boss commended the Attorney General of the Federation for his intervention and for giving effect to the Rule of Law by ensuring that Justice is done in the matter. He also appreciated the effort of the Inspector General of Police, Mr Muhammed Adamu, for his commitment to professionalism, the rule of law and respect for the fundamental human rights of the citizenry. Akoh expressed appreciation supporters of the Corps nationwide and other well-meaning Nigerians, “who genuinely stood by us during our trying moment. It is their display of solidarity and love that actually energised us to survive those dark moments. We remain perpetually grateful to all of them and others too numerous to capture in a short speech of this nature”. 