The Ebonyi State Governor Chief David Umahi has said that the Virology laboratory center built and equipped by his administration would be used for blood sample testing of suspected cases of COVID 19 patients with symptoms before the 1st of April 2020. Governor Umahi who made the disclosure in Abakaliki while briefing on the measures taken to fight the scourge of Lassa Fever and COVID-19 in Ebonyi State said that the testing would commence when the testing kits arrive the South East. Governor Umahi who stated that currently only three centers are presently doing the testing in the country stated that when the kits arrive by 1st of April, the Virology Center in Abakailiki will serve South East, South South and the North Central. The State Governor also announced the recall of all retired health workers both at the State and Local Government Areas to help the medical team in the fight to protect the people. He advice all parks and public transport service providers in the state to ensure they give mask to their passengers and must observed distancing by reducing the number of passengers to create space. “Washing of hands and sanitizers and temperature gauge must be deployed at all parks. All tricycles operators must not carry more than 2 passengers at a time and motorcycle operator’s only one passenger at a time”. “All passengers to and from Lagos, Edo, Abuja and South West must be recorded and submitted to the Ministry of Health on daily basis. Their phone numbers are also essential. This will help our medical team to monitor them”. “Everyone one coming from outside the Country must do self-isolation for 14 days and must contact the Ministry of Health. Individuals are requested to give us information on such persons, their locations and phone numbers”. “Anyone observed with frequent coughing, sneezing, difficulty in breathing, fever or coming from outside Nigeria must be reported to Ministry of Health and their phones numbers to be made available”. Governor Umahi further warned that any service center that fails to observe the provision of nose masks, running water and ensure that every person entering and existing do wash their hands in running water and use of senitizers, gaps  distancing will be severely punished including compulsory shut down. He said that the state government would not also hesitate to penalize and arrest any Chief executive of such service centers adding that medical personnel and security agencies would be dispatched to the centers to monitor all essential service centers for compliance with effect from 24th of March 2020. The Governor also directed that henceforth the National Correction centers in Afikpo and Abakaliki and that of the different police cells in the state must be isolated pointing out that such isolation would help to check the spread of the virus.