While Buachi State governor is under isolation after testing positive of coronavirus, 20 members of the Bauchi State House of Assembly of the opposition All Progressives Congress APC have perfected plans to impeach the Speaker Abubakar Y. Suleiman, LEADERSHIP can authoritatively report. The 20 APC lawmakers were said to be loyal to former Governor M A Abubakar. LEADERSHIP have gathered that the lawmakers have agreed to impeach the Speaker of the any moment from today. Credible source from the Assembly told this medium that the plot to impeach the Speaker started on Saturday when the members attended the wedding ceremony of the daughter of a close ally of the former Governor M A Abubakar Alhaji Ali Kumo in Gombe. The former Governor it was learnt lamented to members of the assembly how the administration of Bala Mohammad is planning to use the report of its assets recovery committee to harass him. He therefore pleaded with them to rescue him by impeaching the Speaker who they accused of “too much loyalty to governor Bala Mohammed.” The members and the former Governor as well as other APC leaders who attended the meeting in Gombe narrated how the Speaker was accused of romancing with PDP and all its agents, which they found detrimental. Sources who spoke to this medium said the Speaker of the Assembly was accused of sidelining the interest of members of the party.  The members it was learnt unanimously agreed to impeach the Speaker by seeking the cooperation of a member from NNPP Hon. Jamilu Umaru Dahiru who will give them the required 2/3 majority to impeach the Speaker.  Sources in the Assembly said the sole member of the NNPP has agreed with the demands of the APC lawmakers.  The member it was learnt accused the Speaker of neglecting the interest of members of the Assembly  A PDP member of the Assembly who don’t want his name mentioned said though the PDP members are not getting any favour from the Executive Arm they will still protect the interest of the Governor and stand with Speaker.  LEADERSHIP recalls that the asset recovery committee had recommended for prosecution of the former governor, following allegations of diversion of public property.  Sources say the impeachment plot was perfected following the ‘inability of the Speaker to ensure that the governor takes care of them (members of the assembly) by according them special privileges’.  