Bauchi State government has ordered total shuts down of all markets across the 20LGAs of the state, except those selling food stuffs and other essential items for survival. The state Deputy Governor Senator Baba Tela, who is the head of coronavirus task force in the state, announced this at a press conference at government house, Bauchi. Baba Tela said the government has directed security agencies in the state to ensure compliance of the markets closure. The Deputy Governor said the closure of the markets “is in line with the earlier decision of the state government which had restricted any gathering that is more than 50 persons to minimize social interaction over the coronavirus pandemic”. Baba Tela said only pharmacies, sellers of food items, super markets selling essential products, bakeries and filling stations were allowed. The special task force on coronavirus headed by the deputy governor has also called on members of the National Union of Road Transports Workers, NURTW to ensure that only four persons board a taxi at a time, one at the front seat and two at the back seat to reduce overcrowding. He called on the leadership of the union to ensure strict compliance, adding that drivers are also advised to keep hand sanitizers and apply it on their passengers. Baba Tela said the state government had also sought for approval from the National Centre for Disease Control for the purchase of more coronavirus tests kids. He said the state government has purchased some drugs and consumables which will be distributed across the four isolation areas in the state. The deputy governor added that the state government had provided two intensive care units at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi and Federal Medical centre Azare as part of measures to control possible outbreak. He said additional sample of blood from 28 persons who had direct contact with the governor were collected and result of the test is expected by tomorrow, March 26. Senator Baba Tela who reassured the citizens of the state that the governor is in a stable condition and is not showing any symptoms of the virus urged citizens to continue to pray, as only prayer will avert a pandemic of this nature. He said the state government is working assiduously to reinforce its health care workers by building their capacity and motivating them to confront the monster virus. The deputy governor said consistent fumigation will be conducted at the government house to disinfect the spread of the virus.