The president-general of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN), Com. Adewale Adeyanju in this interview with YUSUF BABALOLA, assured the newly appointed director-general of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh of the support of the union and gave tips on how he will be successful on his new job, among other issues in the industry What is your take on the appointment of Dr Jamoh As DG of NIMASA? Firstly, I want to use this medium to congratulate the newly appointed director-general of NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh. I believe he is going to correct most of all the challenges that have been facing dockworkers because the former management did not put in their best to make sure that the dockworkers were adequately protected or trained. I believe that Dr Jamoh who came on board on Tuesday is coming as an insider who believes in the welfare of the staff and that of the workers and the stakeholders as well. So, we want to congratulate him and we wish him best in his office. I want him to know he has a lot of problems on his table which I believe God almighty will help him resolve. Are you not satisfied with the way the last administration handled Seafarers and dockworkers welfare? Certainly yes. I don’t want to dabble into what happened in the past administration because I always want to focus on the new one that is just coming in now because if we are to go into that we will continue to injure ourselves, and we will not be able to put everything on the table as we are saying it now. So, what are your expectations from the new management? What we expect is good governance because the former management didn’t take care of maritime workers the way it should be especially the dockworkers and seafarers that belonged to his constituency. But I pray that this new management will look inward and see how the welfare of dockworkers and seafarers is going to be taking care of.  Let us continue to pray for the new management because the old management so much believe in international bodies than the local stakeholders and Dr Jamoh that is just coming should focus on local stakeholders who will guide him on how to get it right. Also, a situation where the dockworkers and seafarers biometric identity cards expired for two and half years and were not renewed is a problem. The last administration kept telling us they are going to renew till they left but now that we have a new management team, I believe that will be his first priority. Aside non-renewal of Identity card, what other things do you want the new NIMASA DG to focus on? He should focus on international oil companies (IOCs). The director-general and the managing director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) should complement each other because the woman is doing a great job by creating employment for Nigerian workers. So, we want NIMASA to come out with their master plan to support the MD of NPA. On the issue of private jetties, whereas dockworkers are banned from entering therein, NIMASA has the Port Act that states that dockworkers should be engaged in jetties and terminals. What is your advice to the new management? He should listen less to advice from people. I know him to be a technocrat and we know he grew through the ranks to be appointed executive director, Finance and Administration in the last administration and now DG of the agency. I believe he is competent and I know he has the wherewithal to perform excellently well on the job but I will advise that those that surround him should give him needed support to succeed on the job and not derail him. I know he will succeed because of his maritime background, experience and exposure. He has promised to engage stakeholders in his administration. Is the union ready to work with Dr Jamoh? We have been partnering with all the past NIMASA DGs. So, with him coming in, we will give him 100 per cent support because if we don’t support him, who will we support? So, we must support him to succeed because if he succeeds, we will as a union also. The dockworkers and seafarers are part of his constituency and he needs to focus more on dockworkers and seafarers unlike the past Administration.  It is not about going to the press to say this is what we have achieved but we are talking about meeting the stakeholders because it is he that wears the shoe that knows where it pinches. We will support the new DG so that the system will be well managed. You had an agreement with terminal operators on Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA), when is it due for review? The next review is coming up in May next year. It is reviewed every two years. Also, we are not reviewing downward but upward. That was what gave dockworkers an edge over other branch in the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN). What dockworkers have as reward, if they have it in the past, there wouldn’t have been violence in the port because everyone knows that CBA between Seaport Terminal Operators of Nigeria (STOAN) and the union, midwifed by NIMASA and witnessed by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) is a right direction for dockworkers and it is every two years. The dockworkers know when to leave and when to come in unlike in the past were people were picked on the road for a specialised job in the seaport. There is process now and the process covers the all dockworkers operating at the nation’s seaports. How prepared are your members to fight Coronavirus? Last week, the Nigerian Ports Authority created an awareness programme for dockworkers and seafarers because they are the first person to interface with vessels when they arrive Nigeria from Asian countries and that is the centre of the outbreak. We have also taken measures that everyone should be sanitized, be prepared and if any vessel has yellow or red flag, they should know that the vessel is not convenient for them to work onboard it and what they need to do is to quarantine the crew atop the vessels before any dockworker or seafarer can work on it. I think we took that measure and I commend the MD of NPA for calling all the stakeholders, terminal operators last week and have set up isolation centres but we don’t pray it enters the seaport. This is the time the Port Health are coming to do their job, the way they are focusing on the airport. The seaport too needs to be focused on because the seaport is very key to Coronavirus spread into Nigeria. I think the NPA and its executive have taken decisive steps to curb the spread through Nigerian seaports. Right from your time as dockworkers president, you have complained about proliferation of private jetties but despite this, they are still springing up. What is happening? What is happening is the attitude of government authority. We have been making noise and we will continue to make noise until the government stops the proliferation of private jetties which are also security risk to the country. How do you think it should be resolved? It has to do with the new DG of NIMASA, because the Act is very clear. Private jetties belong to the Nigerian Ports Authority and the two of them needs to complement each other by allowing dockworkers and staff of NPA to be at the jetties. When we work onboard vessels, we see NPA Tally, security men, NIMASA but now you see no one and that’s how illegal cargoes are brought into the country through the private jetties. The Act that establishes the private jetties is with NIMASA and the new DG should take the issue of private jetties very serious but we won’t stop calling government attention to it.