Wife of the Lagos State Governor, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu on Thursday took awareness campaign Coronavirus disease to the market, emphasizing the need for residents of the state to maintain personal hygiene and strengthen their immune system. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke at a Special Sanitation Visitation of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO) to Tejuosho Ultra Modern Market in Yaba, said it was important for people to adequately fortify themselves to be on a sound footing to ward off any threat of disease. According to the Governor’s, who is also the chairman of COWLSO, market sanitation was a critical factor in protecting the health of residents, adding that the government would do everything possible to ensure hygiene in markets across the state in line with the Health and Environment component of the THEMES Agenda of the present administration. She said, “Coming in to the market this morning, I saw a banner placed at the entrance gate to educate the people about Coronavirus and I must commend you for that because it is important for the markets to be clean. It is also important for people to imbibe the habit of regular washing of hands with soap and water. “It is very important that we should all be aware that as long as we are eating clean and healthy vegetables and fruits, we would be able to increase our immunity so that we will be strong to fight the virus. “As a matter of fact, this time around we need double dose of clean vegetables; double dose of fruits and for the doctors we would recommend Vitamin C to build your immunity and even when you have any of the attack like cough and so on, it would run its course and not stay in your body.’’ Also speaking the Iyaloja of Tejuosho market Alhaja Titilayo Majekodunmi said the traders in market had been sensitized about coronavirus, saying they already know how to prevent the deadly ailment. She said issues of environmental sanitation is given serious attention in the market to ensure there is epidemic outbreak in the market. 