Following the outbreak of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the Kogi State government has arrived at a decision to keep civil servants at home from March, 2020 23 as a preventive measure to curb the spread of the deadly virus. It said those who render critical services will be communicated through the Office of the Head of Service of the state on how to keep the system running without endangering the workers, despite the inevitable decision of Government. In a statement he issued Monday, the state commissioner for Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo, noted that civil servants from grade level (GL) 1 to 13 are directed to stay off workplaces for 14 days which is subject to review after the first week starting from Monday March 23, 2020. He said, “Only workers from GL 1 to 13 are affected by the directive to stay at home while GL 14 and above are to report at their Offices. Those rendering essential services are to continue to go to their workplaces as they are not affected by the “Work from Home” directive. “The Governor of the State, His Excellency Alh Yahaya Bello has approved the “Work from Home” approach to ensure the virus doesn’t spread through contacts at Government offices across the state. “The Kogi State Government is leaving no stone unturned to ensure the virus doesn’t find its way to the state and in the unfortunate scenario it does, Government is prepared to control and manage the cases. “No case of the virus has been reported in Kogi State yet and it is hoped that Government’s efforts at staving the virus off the State will prove productive. “We urge Kogites to ensure adherence to health instructions from the State Ministry of Health on how to prevent the disease as well as ensure personal hygiene”. Also, the Kogi State government has constituted a Squadron to help tackle Coronavirus and Lassa Fever to ensure the prevention and or containment of the two pandemics in the state and guarantee the wellness of Kogi people. Fanwo listed the leadership and members of the Squadron as approved by the state governor, Yahaya Bello, as follow: Deputy Governor (Chairman), Chief of Staff to the Governor, Secretary To Kogi State Government, Hon. Commissioner  for Health (Secretary), Commissioner  for Education,  Commissioner for Transportation, Commissioner  for Environment, Commissioner  for Information and Communication, Commissioner  for Finance , Budget and Economic Planning, Commissioner For Local Government And Chieftaincy Affairs, Commissioner For Women Affairs and Social Development, State Auditor General, and Director General Research and Development. Others are representative of State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), State Epidemiologist, State Security Adviser, Health Development Partners’ Forum (to be represented by WHO), State Accountant General,  Representative of NUJ, Representative of NMA, Representative of Medical And Health Workers Union Of Nigera, Representative of NURTW, Representative of Kogi State Traditional Council, Representative of CAN, Representative of Council of Ulemas, National Youth Council of Nigeria, Kogi Chapter, Representative of Civil Society Organisation of Nigeria, Kogi Chapter, a Veterinary Doctor: Dr Sanni Abdullahi Ozomata, and a Microbiologist, Mr Haruna Audu Jimoh. The Squadron was inauhurated on Monday 23rd March, 2020 by 3pm at the Banquet Hall, Government House, Lokoja. 