A combined team of police officers drawn from different locations under Lagos State Police Command have arrested one Daniel Okocha, 22-year-old who allegedly stabbed his girlfriend, Nkechi Vivian Agwor, 27-year-old to death and ran away in Lagos. LEADERSHIP gathered that the incident happened on last week Sunday at Dopemu area of the state where they lived together as lovers. It was further gathered that the victim has been living with the suspect for many years ago without the consent of her parent before the incident happened. Neighbours said quarrel ensued, which degenerated into a fight during which Daniel allegedly stabbed her twice in the chest with a knife in the neck and fled to unknown destination before he was later picked up at Victoria Island in Lagos on Wednesday afternoon. The police said they swung into action when the matter was reported to Dopemu Police Station and the case was transferred to State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (SCIID) Yaba, Lagos. A family source confirmed that the suspect has already made confessional statements that could assist the police in their investigations, as he confessed having hand in the death of late Nkechi who until her death was his girlfriend. The source said, “We are inside the state CID when the Suspect was arrested in Lagos Island and he agreed that he killed the girl. “The police brought him before us and asked him if he knew anybody amongst us and he identified late Nkechi’s father, Mr Innocent Agwor and when he was asked who killed Vivian and he said “na me kill am”. According to police source, the boy said he killed the girl because she wanted to go to church and he felt that if she leaves for church, she will go and meet another man. “He said when Nkechi refused to obey him and insisted that she was going to the church, he picked a fight with her and stabbed her several times. We believe he was telling a cock and bull stories because the message he typed in the deceased phone showed that he had the intention of killing her. “He wrote that he killed her and watched her die for 45 minutes. He went further to say, ‘I gave her life, but she refused to give me back’. With these statements, we are convinced that he planned and executed the killing. “The irony of the whole thing is that the two of them are from the same town, Ubulu-Uku in Aniocha-South Local Government Area of Delta State. Preliminary investigation showed that though they had one child, but they were not legally married. “We were told that the mother of the deceased is taking care of the child. We were told that the suspect was so possessive and jealous that at one time, he attempted to kill himself by drinking a poisonous substance, Snipper. We were told that it was the deceased that rushed him to the hospital where he was revived.’’ 