Kano State government yesterday announced the appointment of Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, as the 15th Emir of Kano. He replaces Muhammadu Sanusi II who was deposed as the 14th monarch of the emirate by the state government on grounds of allegations bordering on “total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the governor”. Until his appointment as the new Emir of Kano, Bayero, the eldest Son of the late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero, was the Emir of Bichi, one of the new emirates created the state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje. The appointment of the new royal father and the dethronement of Sanusi II were announced at a special sitting of the Kano executive council meeting chaired by the state governor. In a statement he issued to this effect, secretary to the state government (SSG), Usman Alhaji, noted that the removal was with immediate effect. He said this followed the selection of the new Emir by the four notable kingmakers of Kano and the outright approval by the state governor. According to the SSG, the governor acted based on the powers conferred on him in section 11 sub section 1 of the Kano Emirate Council law. The king makers are Alhaji Muktar Adnan (Sarkin Bai of Kano), Makama Abdullahi (Sarki Yola), Alhaji Yusuf Nabahani Cigari (Sarkin Dawaki Mai Tuta) and Alhaji Bello Abubakar. The statement noted: “The Kano State Executive Council under the chairmanship of His Excellency, the Governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has unanimously approved the immediate removal/dethronement of the Emir of Kano Emirate, Muhammad Sanusi II. “The Emir of Kano is in total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the State Governor and other lawful authorities, including his persistent refusal to attend official meetings and programmes organised by the Government without any lawful justification which amount to total insubordination. “It is on record and in so many instances Mallam Muhammad Sanusi II has been found breaching part 3 section 13 (a-e) of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019 and which if left unchecked will destroy the good and established image of the Kano Emirate. This removal is made after due consultation with the relevant stakeholders and in compliance with part 3 section 13 of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019 and other reasons stated above. “This removal was reached in order to safeguard the sanctity, culture, tradition, religion and prestige of the Kano Emirate built over thousand years”. Immediately his ouster was announced, heavily armed security operatives yesterday stormed the palace and escorted the dethroned Emir of Kano, Sansui II, out of the palace after he was said to have been placed under house arrest, with the palace sealed off.  Deposed monarch moved out of Kano According to sources, the deposed Emir of Kano, Malam Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, was moved to Nasarawa State where he was banished to. A sources close to the Lafia Emirate Council told our correspondent that the embattled Sanusi II was billed to be taken to Loko, the headquarters of Loko development area of Nasarawa local council of the state. Loko is the town where the popular Oweto Bridge is being constructed, linking Nasarawa and Benue States. An ancient town dominated by fishermen, Loko is not connected to national grid of electricity and no pipe borne water. Sanusi II ascended the throne in 2014, following the death of his grand uncle, Alhaji Ado Bayero. He served as the governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria from 2009 to 2014 when he was suspended by former President Goodluck Jonathan after raising the alarm over the $20billion said to be allegedly missing from the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). His grandfather Muhammadu Sanusi I was the Ciroma of Kano from 1953 to 1963 when he was deposed by the late Northern Premier, Sir Ahmadu Bello. The deposed Emir had been engaged in a battle with the governor since last year and has been under investigation for alleged corruption, while his emirate was split into five, a development which was considered by those sympathetic to him as a ploy whittle down his influence.  Kano Govt Names Nasiru Ado Bayero Emir Of Bichi Relatedly, the state government has appointed Alhaji Nasiru Ado Bayero as the new Emir of Bichi. He succeeds his elder brother, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, who has been named as the 15th Emir of Kano. Until his new appointment, Nasiru Ado Bayero was the Tafida as well as the Chiroma of Kano. The secretary to the state government (SSG), Alhaji Usman Alhaji announced the appointment of the new emir of Bichi at a news briefing in Kano. He said that Nasiru’s appointment was based on the recommendation of the three Bichi Emirate Kingmakers.  ACF calls for calm, understanding Meanwhile, the apex Northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), has called for calm and understanding among the people of Kano State following the dethronement of Muhammad Sanusi II as Emir of Kano. Reacting to the dethronement, ACF‘s national publicity secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, recalled that while the feud between the governor of the state and Sanusi lasted, the forum intervened with the view to ensuring amicable resolution of the issues. He said, “We had earlier intervened in the feud between the Kano State Government and Kano Emirate Council and called for amicable resolution. “However, with the turn of events now, ACF calls for calm and understanding, especially among the good people of Kano State”.  Continue To Protect Nigeria’s Interest, Obasanjo Tells Sanusi Former president Olusegun Obasanjo yesterday urged the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, to continue on the path that he has chosen for himself in the best interest of Nigeria and humanity. In a letter he personally signed, Obasanjo who said the dethronement of Sanusi II was undeserving urged him to accept it in good faith. According to the former Nigerian leader, Sanusi’s dethronement was good because he had to pay the price for the betterment of Nigeria. The letter obtained by LEADERSHIP reads: “I woke up this morning and after my morning exercise, devotion and my morning meeting with my staff, I heard the sad and the good news of your removal by the Executive Council of the Kano State Government. “It is sad because it was underserved. It is good because you have paid the price. My prayer is that God should give you the fortitude and the courage to continue on the path that you have chosen for yourself in the best interest of our country and humanity. “Please accept, Your Royal Highness, the assurances of my highest consideration”. PDP Expresses Worry, Calls For Calm Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday noted that the deposition of Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, by the Kano state government at the time the nation was battling with worsening insecurity challenges shows the insensitivity and poor appraisal of core national stability issues by the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. The party, in a statement signed by its national publicity secretary Kola Ologbondiyan, said, “Without prejudice to the issues, the PDP described the timing of the action of the Kano state government, particularly as it relates to a very sensitive traditional institution like the Emir of Kano stool, is a big political blunder coming at a time our society is wobbling under the siege of insecurity, especially in a state such as Kano.” The PDP however called for calm and circumspection from all quarters, especially, given the security and political stability concerns in the nation.