Years after pronouncement of 24-hour port operations through an Executive Order by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Nigerian seaport challenges still persist. YUSUF BABALOLA writes. In May 2017, the federal government pronounced an executive order on 24 hours ports operation at the nation’s seaports. The federal government through the then Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo directed that the Apapa Ports should be run 24/7 and banned touting at all ports. The vice president during the signing of the Executive Order noted that the Executive Order takes immediate effect said, “The Apapa Port shall resume 24-hour operations within 30 days of the issuance of this Order and there shall be no touting whatsoever by official or unofficial persons at any port in Nigeria.” According to the directive on port operations, “On-duty staff shall be properly identified by uniform and official cards while off duty staff shall stay away from the ports except with the express approval of the agency head. The FAAN Aviation Security (AVSEC) and Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) Security shall enforce this order.” Immediately, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) began moves to activate the implementation of the federal government’s Executive Order issued by Prof. Osinbajo on new operating procedures at the seaports across the country. The NPA management led by the managing director, Ms. Hadiza Bala Usman,  trimmed down the numbers of agencies presently operating at the nation’s ports from 10 to six.  Multiple Agencies At Seaports Before the implementation of the executive order, the agencies at the ports were: Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman named the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA); Nigerian Customs Service (NCS); Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); Nigeria Police; Department of State Security (DSS); Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and Port Health Agency (PHA); Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON); Port Quarantine Services (PQS); National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). Ms. Hadiza Bala Usman in a way to begin the enforcement of the executive order, sacked some agencies of government from the port. According to her, the sacked agencies would not be allowed to operate at the port but will be called upon to inspect only on cargoes within their jurisdiction. After a meeting with agencies of government and stakeholders, she sacked SON; NAFDAC; Plant Quarantine and NDLEA from operating in the ports with immediate effect and directed that they should show up only when their services are required. The operations of the agencies before being ejected from the seaports increased the time spent on good clearance from one week to several weeks due to long documentation process. It also fuel corruption as money exchanged hands between clearing agents and official of the agency. However, three years down the line after the pronouncement, the port has returned to status quo as the clearing time, corruption, and some failing issues the executive order has once addressed returned. Also, the issue the executive order was supposed to address in the nation’s seaports that refused to go.  No Night Shift For Customs Officers Yet Since the Executive Order specified 24 hours Port Operation which include cargo examination and evacuation, the Customs Comptroller-General, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) said his officers would work on shift to achieve the directive. “There is no way we can stretch one officer for 24 hours as regards the directive. “Therefore, we have to adopt the process of shift and that is the only way we can be able to cover the 24 hours directive”, Ali said. However, 24 hours customs operations has ceased at the Nigerian seaports. Now, customs officers resume at 10am and close for the day by 4pm, making them only work on examination of containers for a paltry six hours in a day.  Poor Lighting Of Roads Linking The Seaports The NPA managing director also identified bad illumination as another pro let experienced at the seaport. She promised that the seaports would be properly lit for 24 hours operations. “We have also identified challenges with full illumination of the port and we are working to provide full illumination of the ports area and providing security for port operation at night,” she said. The lighting of the seaport is still a nightmare as the port access roads still remain dark and dangerous for night operation. For instance, truck drivers have complained of hijack of cargoes in a badly lit area. Hence, to put confidence in port operators, there is need for proper lighting of access roads leading to the port nationwide. The former president, Senior Staff Association of Communications, Transport and Corporations (SSACTAC), Benson Adegbeyeni has also complained of inability of the port to operate 24-hour because of lack of infrastructure like good roads and proper lighting of the ports. “Talking about 24 hour port operations, where is the lighting? Can you work inside the ports at night? No, because of poor lighting of the ports. My people are complaining that they always sleep inside their cars” said Adegbeyemi.  Lack Of 24 Hours Security At that time, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) at the stakeholders meeting on the implementation of the Executive Order of the federal government on port operations in Apapa, Lagos had vowed to deploy its officers for 24 hours security of cargoes at the seaports nationwide. The then Assistant Inspector General of Police, Maritime Command, Pius Imueh said order had been given to all Commissioner of Police, Area Commanders, Zonal Commanders to ensure security for movement of cargoes and trucks 24hours. “Concerning security issues, we have deployed 24 hours operations at the seaport. We are aware of port security of the goods and the port police are strategically ready to ensure all port area are secured. “After this meeting, I will be going to Abuja for meeting with the Inspector General of Police, and all CP, AC are informed about this and they are required to ensure security of movement of goods out of the port to keep business moving,” Imueh stated. Though, the police AIG had promised to beef up security at the seaports but cargo pilfering has increased at the port. Recently, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) called on the NPA, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) and port concessionaires to address the menace of cargo vandalism at the seaports by suspected wharf rats. MWUN has said that the development, if not urgently addressed, will send wrong signals to the international maritime community about insecurity in Nigerian ports.  Unresolved Gridlock On Port Access Road The gridlock on the port access roads has continued unabated such that it is now a scourge and source of embarrassment to the federal, state governments and everyone operating at the Apapa, Tin Can Island ports. For instance, from the deployment of military personnel to manage the traffic to the partial introduction of manual call up enforced by military as well as the constitution of a Presidential Task Team (PTT) headed by former commissioner for Transport, Lagos State, Kayode Opeifa to decongest and make the corridor traffic free, these interventions have failed to yield needed results. The roads leading to the wharf have continued to be an albatross to efficient cargo evacuation from the port and return of empty containers to respective shipping companies.  The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) baffled by the embarrassment of the port access roads, organised a stakeholders meeting to find a lasting solution to the gridlock in January. The event which was attended by terminal operators, shippers, importers, truck drivers, Police, Nigerian Ports Authority, shipping companies, presidential taskforce on decongestion of the road, shipping agents among others affected by the gridlock deliberated on the causes and solutions to the gridlock. According to the stakeholders, corruption perpetuated by traffic control officers, and lack of sanctions for traffic violators, shunting of queues, sharp practices by truck drivers, breakdown of the call-up system and shutting down of the Lilypond Truck park were responsible for the bottlenecks militating against efficient port operation. They stakeholders who said Lilypond Truck Park had created a temporary relief to road users but its subsequent shutdown had led to return of truck drivers to the roads and bridges leading to the port, agreed that the truck park must be resuscitated and made to work. Though, neither the stakeholders nor the NPA unraveled why Lilypond was incarcerated, the participants totally mandated the Presidential Task Team to go all out, in synergy with all relevant agencies, particularly the NPA, to restore the LilyPond to its strategic relevance. But, despite the interventions and suggestions on how to solve the gridlock, it has continued unabated till date.  Absence Of Scanners At Ports One of the mandates of the Executive Order was that scanner should be provides at all the seaports to drive 24hours operations. According to the Customs Comptroller General, the government was aware of the importance of the scanners to the directive and how it will fast track cargo clearance at the seaports. He said, “On the issue of providing functional scanners at the port, the government is doing everything and hopefully before couple of months we will have scanners at the port because we realise that to fast track cargo clearance we need scanners. “If we need to subject all cargoes to 100 percent examination it will not facilitate trade. So, we are working under the supervision of the acting President himself towards getting scanners and very soon it will be available.” But, after several assurance from the Customs boss, no Nigerian seaports have a functional scanner. The lack of scanners has however, led to 100 per cent cargo examination at the seaports and land borders thereby slowing down trade facilitation and defeating the essence of the 24 hours cargo clearance.  Bribery And Extortion NPA boss, Ms Usman had warned federal government agencies to stay away from bribery and extortion of stakeholders.  She charged clearing agents to report any official soliciting for bribe for adequate punishment. “On bribery and extortion, we have made it clear that once any officers are identified or caught they should be brought to our attention and necessary action will be taken,” she warned. However, due to lack of automation which breeds human contacts, allegation of corruption and under table dealing still rife at the nation’s seaports.  Continued Absence Of Single Window Single window system in the form of the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE) aims to facilitate the import and export of goods. A single point of entry for the exchange of electronic information between regulatory agencies and trading participants is simpler, faster and more efficient. Also, many key development agencies and financial institutions across the globe, including the World Bank, now see it as veritable tool for trade and economic competiveness as it is the case in many developed world, but stakeholders have argued that the federal government should make single window available for easy interactions among agencies of government. They opined that instead of having agencies domiciled at seaports, they should instead interface at single window which will reduce costs, cargo dwell time and facilitate trade. The implementation of Single Window in clearance of goods and trade has many benefits such as improving the gains of African nations by 50 per cent. Trade processing in Nigeria at the moment is limited by excessive bureaucracy. Nigeria needs to embrace Singe Window in order to enhance trade and competiveness in its economy. The world is now a global village and those who do not see the need to embrace change in line with international standards and practices may be left behind. Trade facilitation is basically about ‘process reforms’ that would improve documentation and reduce cargo dwell time. The reforms would enhance national trade competitiveness by improving import/export procedures and document handling among government agencies.  Lack Of Automation For 24-hour operations at the port to be successful in Nigeria port environment there is need for automation of the port system. This will reduce human contact and ensure efficiency of services. The automation, which will align the ports with ports in other countries, will reduce clearing time, encourage transparency and boost revenue. One of the key automation tools for modern trade facilitation is the international Cargo Tracking Note (CTN). Since the stoppage of the CTN by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, Nigeria has been losing about $20 million annually that would have accrued into the coffers of the federal government. CTN plugs revenue leakages, puts an end to under-declaration of cargoes, importation of arms, ammunition, banned drugs among others at no cost to shippers, importers, governments and shipping lines. According to the director, Consumer Affairs Department, Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Cajetan Agu, Nigeria’s competitors such as Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire, Angola, Congo, Cameroon, Benin and Togo have all deployed international CTN to plug revenue leakages in port operations. The automation, which will align the ports with ports in other countries, will reduce clearing time, encourage transparency and boost revenue. The automation of services is believed to be the only way to improve trade facilitation at the seaports. It is through such technological advancement as automation that one can remain in any part of the country and operate his or her account irrespective of where it was opened. With automation, one can pay for services and even purchase products within and outside the country without having to go to the bank or shops. Automation is the only way to bring the industry at the same level with other maritime nations. In the ports of advanced nations, clearing of goods and services take place without the physical presence of the brokers at the ports. Those at the ports are mainly key security staff, who monitor operations. But, despite the order, human contacts that breed corruption still exist unabated.