Leading infrastructure company, BUA Group, has announced its acquisition of majority shareholding in one of Nigeria’s largest construction, engineering and mining companies, P.W.  Nigeria Limited. According to BUA, this was necessary to further deepen its investments in the infrastructure business in sub-Saharan Africa. Speaking on the acquisition, executive chairman of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu said: “This acquisition marks the beginning of the next phase of our medium-term strategy for our infrastructure business following the completion of the consolidation of our cement arm, BUA Cement, in January 2020. “BUA’s acquisition of majority holdings in PW Nigeria Limited  provides a prime opportunity to increase our investments in the entire value chain of the Cement,  Mining and Construction industry where we already have BUA Cement Plc, the second largest cement company in Nigeria, as well as investments in other areas including mining, quarrying, construction, power and logistics amongst others. ‘‘We believe P.W. Nigeria Ltd with its solid experience in building dams, roads, airports, water projects and other infrastructure projects in Nigeria provided a strong value proposition too difficult to ignore.” Rabiu further said that as Nigeria and most of West Africa look to improve infrastructural development in coming years, it became imperative for BUA to position itself strategically to support critical investments and government effort and unlock latent opportunities in the infrastructure development space. He said: ‘‘The acquisition of P.W. Nigeria extends BUA’s investments, leadership and capacity in the infrastructure space and projects are expected to benefit from a tight integration of BUA’s cement business and PW Nigeria’s construction business. ‘‘We boast a diverse portfolio comprising mining, earthmoving, roads and bridges, airport runways, infrastructure development, water supply & sewage.  These projects have not only helped grow local economies, but also improved the quality of life for the communities and people in the region. We have an unmatched combination of knowledge, skill, experience and customer commitment coupled with sound financial backing which elevates us as your number one partner in Nigeria and West Africa.’’ BUA Group was established in 1988 by founder and industrialist, Abdul Samad Rabiu and has grown over the years to entrench its place as a leading player in the foods, mining, manufacturing and infrastructure space in Africa with major investments in cement, mining, real estate, steel, port operations, sugar and agribusiness. With key operations spread across Nigeria and an international presence in London, BUA Group has firmly established a reputation as one of the largest contributors to Nigeria’s GDP. It’s key cement holding, BUA Cement, is the second largest producer of Cement in Nigeria and is listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange. 