Nigerian mutual funds or Collective Investment Schemes has generated an estimated gain of N382 billion as their net asset value hit N1.004 trillion in the year 2019. Data released by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) as at December, 2019 showed that net asset value of mutual funds rose by N382 billion or 61.41 per cent from N621.593 billion on December, 2018 to N1.004 trillion to close for the year, 2019. The analysis revealed that in spite of the decline of 14.60 per cent witnessed in the equities market during the year under review, the Nigerian mutual fund managers witnessed a growth of 61.41 per cent. All the categories of Mutual Funds in 2019 appreciated except Equity Based Funds and Ethical Funds, which declined by 14.07 per cent and 11.93 per cent, respectively. Bond Funds, the most active rose by 138.35 per cent. Fixed Income Funds followed with a gain of 116.98 per cent, while Money Market Funds grew by 52.95 per cent. Mixed Funds rose by 21.32 per cent, while Real Estate Funds appreciated by 2.63 per cent. The huge inflow underscored the fact that investors are still interested in mutual funds, especially bond, fixed income and money market funds which took in most of the new inflows. Mutual fund is a pool of funds brought together by a professional fund manager from several investors to invest in selected underlying securities. The underlying securities can be one or a combination of the following: stocks, fixed income securities, real estate and commodities. A mutual fund portfolio is structured and maintained to match different investment objectives. The type of mutual fund an individual invests in depends on their financial objectives and appetite for risk. In March 2019, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in conjunction with the Fund Managers Association of Nigeria (FMAN), the Central Securities Clearing Systems (CSCS) and the Association of Stockholding, Nigeria (ASHON) launched the Mutual Fund trading platform at the stock exchange house in Lagos, with the aim to improve and enhance access of listed mutual funds to investors and to enhance visibility for the listed funds and promote financial inclusion while stimulating retail investor participation in our market. The chief executive officer of NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema said that the platform is a new channel for accessing mutual funds which are listed on the NSE, stating that “Our commitment to provide market operators, issuers, fund managers and investors with a reliable, efficient and an adaptable platform to create a more transparent, liquid and accessible market in line with global best practices.” According to Onyema, the platform will facilitate electronic transactions with seamless connection between NSE, CSCS, Fund Managers and Brokers. Investors have the benefit of a single view of their mutual fund investment while being able to invest with multiple fund managers through a single broker. The acting director-general of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mary Uduk advised retail investors in the capital market to invest in Collective Investment Schemes and Mutual Funds to help reduce risk, saying such investments were managed by professionals and they help investors invest in various asset classes to minimise risk. Chief executive, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management Limited (SIAML), Mrs Bunmi Dayo-Olagunju, said considering the volatility in the equities and commodity markets, it is imperative for investors to diversify their portfolios by investing in mutual funds and other investment vehicles. The attractiveness of mutual funds or collective schemes, she said, derives from the numerous benefits it offers over other investment vehicles, such as flexibility, liquidity, steady returns, professional management, and risk reduction, among others. Group managing director of Cordros Capital Limited, Wale Agbeyangi said that “We need a collective effort from both the regulators and the operators. The Securities and Exchange Commission has done a lot in this regard as the industry is a lot more regulated and the investing publics are better informed about the opportunities that mutual funds offer.” Agbeyangi however, noted “We think both the operators and regulators can still do a lot more with regards to financial literacy and adequate wealth management strategies. “Operators also need to come out with more investment solutions that cater to the various needs of investors. Government can also look at providing incentives and enabling environment that encourage savings and investments.” He added that the mutual funds trading platform marks the beginning of a new era in Nigeria’s mutual fund industry as mutual funds can now be traded on the floor of the stock exchange, saying that investors can now buy and sell units of funds on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). He also noted that with the platform, stockbroker can assist in distributing or selling the funds across the millions of clients that they have. The managing director of HighCap Securities Limited, Mr. David Adonri said that mutual fund investment has been widely embraced as a good investment platform in the developed economies, and serves as a vehicle for the mobilization of capital for economic development. He noted the investors are now embracing mutual fund instrument to diversify their investment risks especially in the equities market, explain that since investments in mutual funds are like investment in a basket of securities.