The rising incidents of death by gas explosion have become a serious concern to Nigerians writes FESTUS OKOROMADU As society develops and the quest for better living environment gives rise to innovation and economic wellbeing for those who can utilize such advances, the global acceptance of natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) commonly known as cooking gas as fuel for industrial and domestic use like every good thing has its down sides. The importance of LPG in the modern day society cannot be overemphasized. For instance, LPG is used in industrial, commercial, agricultural, horticultural and manufacturing applications. At home, it can provide heating, hot water and power to cook, as well as fuel cars. It even powers cogeneration plants. Despite the great value this natural resource has brought to modern human society, the negative impact which is ultimately the consumption of human lives makes it a dangerous tool that must be handled with caution. In recent time, the rising number of deaths arising from explosion of gas cylinders and pipelines across Nigeria has led the posting of various questions as to whether this natural gift is a friend or foe. For instance, the death of the chairman of Nigeria Atomic Energy Commission (NAEC), Prof. Simon P. Mallam, his son and four other persons in Sabon Tasha area of Kaduna metropolis is one of the unforgettable national losses from gas explosion. Mallam, who according to a source close to the family, just returned from the United States on official tour was at Sabon Tasha with his son to have their hair cut close to the gas shop when the incident happened. According to the source: “Professor Mallam just returned a few days ago from the United States. On his return, he went to his village in Kagoro in Kaura Local Government area. “After he came back from the village for the Yuletide celebration, he went to have a haircut alongside his son in preparation for the Sunday service and subsequent movement to Abuja. “We learnt they just finished having their hair cut when the gas exploded from the next shop from the barbing salon. He, his son and three other people died instantly.” A witness and manager of a filling station opposite the gas shop, Mr. Jerry Bishop, told journalists at the scene of the accident that dismembered bodies of the gas vendor and one customer were thrown metres away. According to him: “I was inside my office when the incident happened. We were lucky that we were not dispensing when the incident happened, the casualty may have been more, because the bottom of the particular cylinder that exploded landed inside my filling station. “The explosion was very loud that it shook me where I was sitting. Bodies of the gas vendor who is a young boy and his customer scattered several metres away. In fact, some landed in our station.” It was gathered that, the explosion occurred due to a phone call received by the customer buying the gas. Similar incidents are reported regularly across the country. Ironically, this is coming amid intense campaigns on the need for Nigerians to drop kerosene for gas as a cheaper and cleaner means of cooking. In Lagos, within a spate of one week last December, no fewer than six persons were killed with dozens of others critically injured when a gas station exploded in Ajegunle, Ifelodun Local Council Development Area (LCDA) and a five-star hotel on the Island which was caused by welders working within the premises. The Ajegunle explosion which claimed lives aside dozens of shops that were gutted. According to reports, the explosion occurred when a mobile call came in as a gas vendor was filling a cylinder for a customer. The story of a seven-year-old girl and a stroke patient who were severely burnt after a cylinder explosion at Ogunmokun Street in the Mushin area of Lagos also reminds one of the pathetic stories of gas explosions. The River State capital is not spared of the ravaging gas accidents, in mid-2019 a gas explosion at the Port Harcourt Shopping Mall left five persons critically wounded. The explosion, which forced sudden closure of the outfit, was said to have started at the kitchen section. The survivals whose hands, legs and some parts of their bodies were cut off have mother luck to thank even as the scares remain indelible for life. The state had earlier in 2015 witnessed a gas explosion. In that incident, five persons were killed at Eliozu area in Port Harcourt when a gas retailer was refilling another cylinder and suddenly, the cylinder exploded killing the victims on the spot. Another gas explosion at Arakale market in Akure, Ondo State last year was traced to an illegal gas re-filling plant which wounded many and razed many shops. A disturbing incident was equally reported at Sara, Jigawa State in 2018 where three siblings died when gas exploded leaving others with varying degrees of burns. In 2017, a chlorine cylinder exploded at the Plateau State Water Board treatment plant at Lamingo, Dogon Karfe, Jos South Local Government Area, leaving eight people dead, among them a pregnant woman and children. Dozens of others sustained varying degrees of injuries.  Stakeholders Express Concern Worried by the alarming situation, director-general of the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Mr. Osita Aboloma, while addressing the media in August, 2019, attributed the growing incident to the influx of fake gas cylinder into the Nigerian market. This even as available indicates that the estimated value of fake and sub-standard LPG cylinders into the country and impounded by the Nigerian Customs Service is worth N38 million. The SON DG who described the imported sub-standard cylinders as bombs said his agency had embarked on an aggressive impounding of same as they failed to meet safety requirements. Unfortunately, this is coming at a time when the Federal Government has launched a campaign to ensure that up to 13.8 million households adopt LPG for their cooking in the next few years. In her view, former national coordinator of Women in LPG group, Mrs. Nkechi Obi, noted that the rising explosion of cooking gas could be avoided when those charged with the responsibility of managing the nation’s boarders and seaports ensure that fake and sub-standard cylinders are not imported into the country. According to her, unrestricted importation of fake cylinders is a real and present danger because “It is like bringing explosives into homes, which can be deadly. “More so, importing cylinders is harmful to the Nigerian economy and goes contrary to the quest by the nation to become self-reliant because cylinders are now manufactured here. “Using fake cylinders also poses severe danger to our womenfolk, who face daily risk of death or injury in the event of explosion of fake cylinders in their kitchens.’’ Obi, who is also the chief executive officer of Techno Oil Group, argued that there was need for government to come hard on countries dumping fake cylinders in Nigeria. According to her, market report shows that the Techno Gas brand of cylinders, manufactured in Nigeria command more acceptance and better quality, compared with cylinders imported into Nigeria, especially from China. Obi, a long-time advocate of LPG adoption, lamented that continued importation of cylinders had been hurting Nigerian industrialists, engaged in cylinder manufacturing. She stressed the need for customs, SON and the Department of Petroleum Resources to raise the stakes to discourage low-grade cylinders from entering Nigeria, to “save our lives’’.  Health Concerns Another group that has expressed serious worries over the increased gas explosion incidents is the medical professionals. For instance, the chief medical director of the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos, Dr Mustapha Alimi has raised the alarm over increasing cases of burns in the hospital, blaming them on what he described as ‘nonchalant attitude’ of Nigerians in the use of cooking gas. Alimi who spoke during the Hospital’s Burns Awareness Walk further maintained that the increase in burns being recorded in the tertiary institution was due to poor handling of cooking gas or kerosene, generator and the use of phone touch lights while fuelling generators. He warned Nigerians against keeping their gas cylinder inside their kitchen as many may not be lucky with such act. “If you are using cooking gas or kerosene, keep it outside. Your kitchen must have a window. If kerosene finished inside the stove while you are cooking, suspend the cooking till the stove is cool before you refuel. “Don’t keep petrol inside the house, do not refill hot or working generator. If you are leaving your house, switch off all appliances, if you are going to bed, switch off appliances you are not using. If you want to do electric wiring in your house get a proper electrician and make sure cable is connected properly, don’t leave cable where they can spark and kindle fire. Corroborating his views, Head of Department, Burns and Plastic Surgery, Dr Folake Abikoye regretted that many Nigerians still apply things like egg, engine oil, pap among other things on burns injury which can contaminate the wound. “The best thing is to put the injury spot under a running tap to cool the temperature of the affected area and prevent the heat of initial burn injury to continue to cause more tissue destruction. She urged people to embrace safety precaution help to save lives and prevent loss of property, “burn management is very expensive, some patient cannot afford it that is the reason why the hospital management is considering setting up an endowment fund to assist less privileged.  Growing Illegal Operators The petroleum industry market regulator, Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has on its part consistent blamed gas explosion in the country on the activities of illegal operators in the industry. The Zonal Operation Controller, Kaduna Zone of DPR, Isa Tafida, during a visit to the scene of the Kaduna gas explosion reiterated the same message while he declared the gas decanting outlet as illegal, saying the operator used wrong and expired cylinders. He however, vowed to dislodge illegal gas facilities and prosecute perpetrators. According to him, the gas retailer operated illegally without even category D license. He then urged interested investors, gas plant operators and gas retailers to obtain the required license that would ensure safe handling of gas to avoid such accidents. He stated that the Department has carried out various training, monitoring of LPG outlets and warning members of the public not to patronise the illegal operators. “Gas retailers who do not have category D license for retailing LPG are desperate for money because LPG is new source of money and the public have started understanding that gas cooking is faster and cleaner but the public needs to be aware that it has to be handled with caution. “Investors should invest in gas business but they should follow the rules and regulation and do it in line with best practices. Last year, we licensed 38 LPG plants in Kaduna state,” Tafida said. Similarly, the Zonal Operations Controller of DPR, Port Harcourt, Mr. Bassey Nkanga, while addressing the cause of gas explosion in the state condemned refilling of gas cylinders instantly at the outlets, noting that “people should drop their cylinders and go with refilled ones to enable government know the expired cylinders and withdraw them from circulation.” He reiterated that gas operators are not supposed to operate within residential areas, adding that the Rivers State government and the agency were determined to rid the state of illegal gas outlets. He also advised operators who do not have licences to do the right thing or leave the state, adding that the state government and the agency would set up a task force that would work round the clock to ensure that no illegal gas dealer remains in Rivers State. According to him, safety requirements for the issuance of licence by the agency to people venturing into gas business include having good ventilation and capability to operate in safe manners. He said: “The state government has come to work with us. Together we are setting up a task force that will go about ensuring that those operating without license are not allowed to operate because they are the ones that sell the product to illegal retailers who cause the major problems. We are also working with security agencies to ensure that those operating without licence are arrested. The jingles are on, warning them to leave the state or do the right thing. “Government is doing anything possible to stop the use of expired gas cylinders. There is a plan that every cylinder that does not meet specific requirements will be pulled out of circulation and no longer be allowed to be used.” He added that there are physical checks on the appearances of the cylinders and also the use of instruments like the ultrasonic tool to test the standard of cylinders. He urged the public to send information of any illegal gas operators to the DPR zonal office in Port Harcourt, assuring that actions would be taken without delay.  Attraction To Gas Retail Business Meanwhile, LEADERSHIP Weekend investigations have shown that not many people who are into gas retail business or make use of cooking gas in their homes are aware of the safety rules they need to observe. In Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for instance, almost every street has a gas retail outlet. But when one of the retailers in the Bwari area council was asked what was needed to start the business, he said: “You need a good location and a big cylinder. With that, your business has taken off as it is very easy to learn how to transfer from a big cylinder to a customer’s smaller one.” To him, anyone can run the business. The situation is the same across the country, findings showed that cooking gas retailers are mainly found in locations that are easily accessible to residents not minding the risks involved. A gas retailer in the Mararaba area, Okechukwu Anoruo, who said he ventured into the business after a brief training from his uncle who runs the business in Kuja area of the FCT, stated that he observes little or no rules. “Gas is becoming a lucrative business in the FCT. What I can tell you is that only God is guiding us. We observe little or no safety measures here. You can see that it is an open place. The business is going on well. Students largely patronise us. They buy mostly small size cylinders. I have not recorded any explosion,” he said. Some gas vendors in Jos, Plateau State, also told our reporters that they do not observe any safety rules other than being careful because they know that gas is a highly flammable substance.  The Need For Enlightenment There is no denying the fact that improve consumer education and awareness will lead to good practices. When combined with enhanced regulation of safety in the supply chain of LPG, there is the likelihood of reducing the inherent risks and greatly facilitate adoption of LPG as a safe modern fuel. Therefore, the call for improvement in the quality of consumer campaigns to make them more user-friendly, and to take advantage of the use of gas for cooking cannot be overemphasized. In fact, according to Mr. Emeka Anu, a communication expert, “Campaign on safe usage of cooking gas should be intensified, and in doing that woman should be involved as communicators and designers of programmes. Besides, partnering with women in the campaign on safe usage of cooking gas, neighbourhood associations should also be involved as they are noted to be effective.  Basic Safety Rules For Gas Usage As part of measures to curb accidents arising from gas explosions in the country, a safety expert, James Oghenekaro, said the major worry about gas usage is leakage from the cylinder. “Gas leaks gradually build up and eventually lead to an explosion. Gas vendors must bear in mind that gas cylinders should be stored away from ignition sources and other flammable materials. They must be kept in an upright position and must be kept in a dry and well-ventilated area to ensure that even if a leak occurs, adequate ventilation will prevent concentration “In the home, the best way to deal with a gas leak is to prevent it from happening. This is because if natural gas does not burn up quickly, it begins to emit a byproduct of carbon monoxide. The higher the concentration of carbon monoxide in the environment, the lesser the oxygen and this can affect human life. Therefore, certain precautions must be taken to ensure safety. Always turn off after use. If you smell gas, don’t turn on electrical appliances, use a mobile phone or smoke in the environment. One must also keep the cylinder away from ignition sources,” she said. A safety expert in Jos, Mr. Joseph Lankwap, noted that using expired gas cylinders is dangerous, adding that most people are not aware that gas cylinders have a five-year expiry date. “The process of verifying the expiry date of cooking gas cylinders can be found on one of the metal strips that connect the body of the cylinder to the top ring handle and is either printed or posted on the inner side of the strip. Also printed alphabets A, B, C, D, represents the month the gas cylinder will expire,” he explained. He advised the government to take a tough stance in enforcing safety regulations to protect citizens from hazards associated with gas refilling. On his part, a safety expert and Chief Fire Officer in Anambra State Fire Service, Martin Agbili, said: “Gas cylinders should be kept outside the kitchen, not inside. Owners of gas cylinders should ensure that they own fire extinguishers in case of a fire outbreak.” He also urged gas users to buy their gas cylinders from certified dealers as, according to him, some of the gas cylinders are refurbished and re-painted to look new. “The gas cylinders should be placed outside with periodic checks for leakage. Kitchen windows and doors should be opened for some time before gas could be ignited, especially after one just returned to the house,” he added. While the wait for both regulators and stakeholders to perfect whatever it will take make the industry operate in the best interest of all players in the industry, urgent steps must be taken to stop the unnecessary death of the citizens from this beauty gift of nature that is making life more comfortable for those who knows how to make things work. 