Ten years after, the Dogo Nahawa massacre is being remembered and commemorated. ACHOR ABIMAJE in this feature, takes a  look at the plight of widows and orphans after the tragedy. A visit to Dogo Nahawa community, and easily visible are some left over relics of burnt buildings still standing after ten years of the attack. If only they could speak, they would fill the ears of visitors with the sad tale of that particular day, when a dark shadow in form of the brutal attacks was casted upon the community. It was an agonising incident that drew the attention and ire of the entire world as condemnation and public outcry trailed the massacre that many described as man’s inhumanity to man. Women and children are seen in groups discussing, as guests made their way to Arm of Hope Memorial Secondary School, venue of the 10 years anniversary of the massacre, where over 356 women and children were gruesomely murdered in the community, by people suspected to be killer herdsmen on the 7th of March, 2010. At the time, the bodies of the dead, had lain dead lining the dusty streets of the two villages that came under attack simultaneously during that dark period. Plateau State government, put the death toll at 500. The bodies of children tangled with each other in a local morgue, including a diaper-clad toddler. Today, members of the two communities are now mostly widows and orphaned children as a result of the attack. The Organisation behind the marking of the tragedy is the Arm of Hope Foundation. A non profit that has assisted the less privileged and impoverished  communities. Like in Plateau State and other parts of Northern Nigeria, the rising spate of communal, ethnic and religious clashes continues to assume a disturbing height. As a resulting these horrific attacks , families are wiped out, farmlands are destroyed, schools if any exist, are reduced to debris and the survivors are left without hope for tomorrow. Indeed the terrorists left behind trails of blood, anguish, suffering, pain and hopelessness for the survivors, many of whom were too young to understand death, let alone come to terms with the demise of their loved ones. Dead or alive , their lives, hopes and their future were destroyed by this singular event. As against this background, the President  of Arm of Hope Foundation, Apostle Eugene Ogu urged the Federal Government to rehabilitate orphans, widows and the aged persons who are  victims of terrorist massacre  in Nigeria. He noted that federal and state government has forgotten the over 356 persons made up of children, widows and the aged, who were attacked and killed on Sunday 7th  March, 2010 in Dymburuk (Dogo Nahawa), in Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State. Our correspondent recalled that Dogo Nahawa, now called Dyenburuk is a community in Barki Ladi Local Government Council . The community is home to abaut 3,000 natives. On the early morning of 7th March, 2010 the community alongside two neigbouring  communities, Ratsat and Zot were invaded by suspected killer herdsmen, leaving over 354 people dead and many others maimed and injured in the process. Apostle Ogu recalled this sad story during the 10th anniversary and memorial which was marked alongside the foundation laying ceremony of a new laboratory and computer centre, for students of the Arm of Hope Memorial School held in Dogo Nahawa. Asides this, there is also a primary school building constructed by the state government abaut two years ago, standing very close, in the community. According to him, this year marks 10 years since the massacre at Dogo Nahawa and it’s environs. The Apostle further stressed that they have decided that it is time for the stakeholders to come together to examine how far the communities has fared and the best possible way to chart a more prosperous and peaceful course for the affected communities. “I wish to draw the attention of all relevant government agencies including the Presidency, of the need to place premium on rehabilitating victims of the herdsmen crisis and Boko Haram insurgency,” stating it was disturbing to read in the print media of how the federal government plans to rehabilitate insurgents, killer herdsmen and militias when their victims are left suffering in settlements. “The life of Nigerians irrespective of tribe, religion etc, must count as being important to the survival and growth of the country, where tongues and tribes differ, the goal to build a just and peaceful society must be enthroned.” Apostle Agu, who built the Hope Memorial Grammar School and offered scholarship to the students to university level, drilled borehole water, equipped  and empowered surviving widows, and gave scholarship to Daniel Chuwang who was attacked with machete, injured and left to die by the terrorists and solicited the help of Plateau State Government. The six classroom block secondary school was built as a result of the organisation’s president’s determination, to restore joy and happiness to the people of the community, especially the orphans and the widows. ‘’I strongly believe that what  I am doing today, is what the parents of these orphans and the husbands of these widows would have done for them if they were to be alive,’’ he said. “Our determination in Arm of Hope is to restore joy and happiness to the faces of the people of these community having gone through alot of trauma.” According to him, the NGO is establishing physical legacies to commemorate the 10th anniversary, and has started the construction of three boreholes in the affected Communities, the building of Science/Computer Laboratory and the construction and expansion of the school. “All the students of the school were mostly orphans and would be trained free up to their university level, so that they could be able to come back one day and rebuild their community, and put smiles on the faces of other children.” The president of the organisation, appealed to well meaning Nigerians and Corporate organisations to key into humanitarian services, as the crises especially in the northern parts of the country has renderd alot of women and children hopeless. Earlier in her opening address the principal of the secondary school, Mrs Esther Samson Laah, said the school is expanding and seeking ways to improve their services, given that this [secondary] is an important phase in a child’s life. She noted that a good building has the potential to enhance or undermine the learning process as the students need to be comfortable, healthy, safe and secure in this environment. Meanwhile, Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, represented by Secretary to Government of Plateau, Prof. Danladi Atu, sympathized with the devastated community. He said that God has not abandoned the people of Plateau and that God will not hand them over to their enemies. Lalong said he is aggressively pursuing the concept of community policing and urged the community to key in, so that community members can watch over their communities. The governor urged the people to forgive those who did evil to them in the last 10 years and expressed strong hope that most of the children will grow to become pillars of Plateau State. Also speaking, programme manager Plateau State peace building Agency PPBA, Godwin Okoko said the modern world is becoming highly fragmented, less peaceful and unsafe for both the present and future generations. He added that the world today is engulfed by environment of tension, violence , declining values, injustice, reduced tolerance and respect for human rights, threatening the future of the youth who deserve a peaceful and better quality of life. According to him, today the world faces different types of conflicts and the worst of them is terrorism, which has resulted in catastrophic loss of property and human life, ultimately hindering peace between communities, nations and religion, while the core issue driving these conflicts and extremist actions is intolerant thought process. He pointed out that the increased level of religious intolerance has created various gaps and violence in the society today. As a way forward, Okoko pointed out that providing opportunity and safe spaces for the youth to come together to build understanding , reduce misconceptions and develop healthy relationship through social activities, exposure visits, interfaith dialogue, sports gathering, community service initiatives and mentorship programmes, promote peaceful coexistence and build relationship in the community. He also said in return the community develops intellectually, socially and politically, adding that such strides are imperatives for the wellbeing of our future generations, while interfaith interactions and dialogues act as a tool to engage youth of different faiths and cultures with the aim of building understanding goodwill and a sense of community service among the youth. In the same vein, senator representing Plateau North in the national assembly Istifanus Gyang, also attended the 10th anniversary of the Memorial Mass of Dogo Nahawa Massacre, where he  cautioned the State Government against Land Take Over Bill. Saint Fidelis Dyemburuk, Dogo Nahawa played host to people from all walks of life in a memorial mass in honour of the over 356 persons who had lost their lives. The senator, his wife Ngo Rahila I.D. Gyang, Representative Dachung Musa Bagos member representing Jos South/Jos East, a retinue of aides and Germain Faith based group named Action for the Prosecuted Church were in attendance. In his sermon the parish priest, Reverend Father Philip Idodo spoke on the inevitability of death and admonished Christians to always be ready as death could come when least expected. The memorial mass was a moment of sober reflection for the community and the people of Plateau North. The senator was on hand to sympathize and empathize with the people over what transpired ten years ago. He recalled how while serving as permanent secretary Special Services in Plateau State, he was among the first on the security team that arrived the community the very day the attack took place, only to meet dead bodies littered on streets, bushes, houses and everywhere. It was a scene of horror. Senator Gyang posited that the greatest threat to security of Nigeria and well being of citizens, is religious extremism and fatalistic doctrines that are vehemently intolerant of the rights of other citizens to hold and practice the religion of their choice. It is this fanaticism that has given rise to violent attacks, insurgency and terrorism under platforms like ISWAP, Boko Haram, etc. Senator Gyang used the occasion to caution the Plateau State government, over a Bill said to have passed second reading at the State Assembly, to empower the governor to exercise absolute and discretionary powers on all land in the state. He asserted that the said Bill is simply a Land Take Over Bill and was therefore not welcome as it has the possiblity of disinheriting people of their ancestral lands. He also spoke on his threefold agenda of securing, reconciling and empowering the good people of Plateau North”. He reiterated his desire to secure the people through peace, reconciling the people through forgiveness and restitution and then empower the people. He therefore urged the community to forgive the ugly events of the past and leave judgement to God. Senator Gyang appreciated Plateau State people for being hospitable and welcoming to all other Nigerian citizens that have chosen to reside in the state. He however urged all those coming to reside in the state, to respect the cultural and traditional rights and heritages of their host and coexist peacefully across ethnic and religious divides. However, Ngo Serah Patrick and Ngo Vou Danladi who spoke to our correspondent on behalf of the widows said they lost their spouses as a result of the tragedy of 7th March 2010 and were left with no hope in the area. According to the duo , the population of this community has been reduced to barely women as their men have been slaughtered and killed by these enemies of progress. They showed appreciation to the establishment commemorating the day. “The NGO is sponsoring  our surviving children from secondary school uptill University level. We are grateful to them. “We also want to use this opportunity to commend them for providing us widows, with skill acquisition training,” adding the provision of take off grant to enable them start business on their own and be self-reliant in the area. “Government at all levels should please come to our aide by paying attention to the plight of widows, orphan and victims of 2010 Dogo Nahawa massacre to compliment what the NGO is doing in this community. “We appeal to other local, international NGO and governments at all level to come to our rescue in the community,” the widows cried out. Speaking to our correspondent, one of the victims of the attack who lost her parents, Miss Faith Dungs said she lost her mother and father including all her siblings in the attack. “They were sleeping only for them to hear gun shots every where. People were running, the attackers were cutting them down with machete.” According to Faith, she was 12 years old when the attack took place. Similarly, Master Pwajok Nyam a 17 year old student of the memorial secondary school, also disclosed that he lost his parents and all his brothers and sisters in the attack. According to him, what saved him was that he was staying with one of his Aunty’s in Etobaba, otherwise he would have been dead like his other siblings. “ I am lucky to be alive because I was staying with my Aunty in Etobaba in Jos North local government area of the state capital when the killings took place. Up until now I am deeply pained by the loss of my parents and siblings. “If not because of the effort of the founder and president of Arm of hope foundation I will by now, not be in school . To the Glory of God I am now in SS 3 and have registered for WAEC and NABTEC.” For Daniel Chuwang who is currently a 200 level student of Abia State University, he told our correspondent in Dogo Nahawa, that he lost his parents and all his siblings in the attack. According to him, the attackers invaded their compound killed his parents and siblings, adding that he was macheted on the head and several parts of his body. He pointed out that the attackers left him for dead, until a Good samaritan rescued him and he was taken to the hospital by the Apostle. Daniel commended Apostle Agu and urged the Plateau State and federal government, stating they give him the necessary support he deserves, to continue to serve humanity and the less privileged in the society. “As you can see most of the students of Arm of Hope memorial secondary school are orphans as a result of the attacks. Apostle Eugene Agu is the one helping them to pursue their education even up to university level,” he said.