Recently, and for the umpteenth time, the transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) cried out that inadequate power generation occassioned by shortage of gas upstream had drastically reduced the amount of power it could transmit to the distribution companies (DisCos) for onward supply to customers, appealing for patience of the public. ABAH ADAH takes a look at the scenario: It is no longer news that the major problem faced by the electricity generating companies is either shortage of gas or their inability to secure the commodity to enable them generate at capacity due to lack of fund, even as the country is reputed to have huge reserve of the commodity in its crude nature. According to a report, Nigeria has an estimated 15 trillion cubic metres of natural gas resources, which is more than any other African country except for Algeria. It said, “Gas accounts for around 10 per cent of total primary energy demand today, mostly for power generation and own use in the oil and gas industry. “However, the current outlook for Nigeria’s gas industry is far from bright. Rapid production growth after 2000 tailed off due in part to regulatory uncertainties and the country is now struggling to arrest a decline in output.” The IEA noted that inadequate gas supply had severely affected the reliability of power supply, leading to load shedding and growing reliance on private (diesel-based) generators. “Meanwhile, almost 15 per cent of gross production is wasted through flaring, incurring both economic and environmental costs,” the agency added. Gas related crisis in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) has been a recurring decimal, even in the aftermath of the reform which saw the generation and distribution segments of the industry privatised in 2013. But this meadow upstream has never gotten the attention it deserves, perhaps because even the transmission and distribution sub-sectors have been unable to match the yet insufficient generation. It is generally believed now in the land that the epileptic power supply that has been the order of the day is a fallout of under-equiped transmission and distribution systems such that at any blink of the light, the people on the streets blame the distribution companies even when the very source fails. At different times, the generating companies had cried out over the gas crisis, and even said they would be forced to shut down, but it is as if they were not heard. As at the begining of January alone, the unavailability of gas or as is the case most times, the inability of the GenCos to pay for gas required to operate gas-fired power plants, stalled the generation of 16,231.5 megawatts of electricity in the first eight days of this year, the Federal Ministry of Power has disclosed. Data obtained from the ministry showed that the lack of gas had remained a major constraint to efficient power generation in the country. Over 70 per cent of Nigeria’s electricity comes from thermal power plants, and these plants require gas to function optimally in the generation of electricity. The pressure on the therma stations as regards electricity generation is even more during the season such as the time we are in now when the hydro-power plants would be missing the full force of the water to generate at full capacity. Figures gotten from the ministry at the time showed that on January 1, 2 and 3, a total of 2,026.5MW of electricity could not be generated on the grid on each of the days as a result of gas constraint. Also, on January 4, 5 and 6, the grid lost 1,900MW of power on each of the days as a result of the unavailability of gas. On January 7 and 8, the lack of gas prevented the generation of 2,042MW and 2,410MW of power respectively. The Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), the umbrella body of the Gencos, Dr Joy Ogaji, told LEADERSHIP that the gas supply challenge was due to the inability of Gencos to adequately pay for the commodity. The APGC Scribe had during her interface with newsmen at different times blamed the woes of the sector on poor governance, incapacitated Transmission and distribution systems due to infrastructural poverty, and unaffordability of operational gas by the GenCos due to poor return on their investment which has made it difficult for them to pay for the gas. The latest cry in this month of March over the gas crisis came from the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). TCN announced this in a statement signed by its General Manager, Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah. This is coming at a time when electricity supply around the country is at its worst, and heat is at its topmost. The statement read in part, “TCN wishes to inform the public that the nation’s power sector is experiencing power supply shortage caused by low gas supply  which has restrained the ability of many thermal power stations to generate optimally.” According to the statement, the thermal power plants affected by the gas supply constraint were not able to generate any megawatts of electricity as at Friday. They include: Sapele NIPP, Olorunsogo NIPP, Ihovbor NIPP and Azura Edo power plants. Other thermal power plants equally affected but generated at  lower capacities include Egbin (Steam), Sapele (Steam), Delta (gas), Geregu (gas),  Omotosho(gas), Olorusogo (gas), Geregu NIPP, Alaoji NIPP, Omotosho NIPP, Odukpani NIPP, Okpai (Gas/Steam) and Omoku (gas) power generating plants. TCN said gas crisis has equally reduced the amount of power it could transmit to the distribution companies (DisCos) for onward supply to customers. “TCN hereby note that as a result of the prevailing gas constraints, there has been significant reduction in the quantum of power transmitted to the various distribution  companies for onward supply to electricity consumers across Nigeria,” it said. TCN however said it was into discussions with the management of some of the affected power plants, many of whom attributed their challenges to gas pipeline and processing maintenance being carried out by their gas suppliers. 