…43% are married before 18 years A new report released Thursday by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), has revealed that 19.9 million girls have experienced Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in Nigeria. The report also stated that 43 per cent of girls in Nigeria are married before their 18th birthday, and 17 per cent before they turn 15 years. It noted that harmful practices such as child marriage and FGM have continued to disrupt and damage the lives and potential of millions of girls globally, adding that each year, 12 million girls are married in childhood, and four million are at risk of FGM. According to UNICEF, 25 years after the historic Beijing women’s conference, violence against women and girls is still common in Nigeria. The organisation therefore warned that much more needs to be done to protect the rights of Nigerian girls, particularly from violence. “Sadly, after 25 years, the world is still a very violent place for girls and women, including in Nigeria. “But there are things we can do to change this and we need to do them urgently. We need to invest in protection services and support programmes that give survivors of violence an opportunity to speak up and to heal. We need to work with local communities to change practices that make women and girls vulnerable to violence and abuse. “And we need to speak to our children, girls and boys to ensure they grow up knowing that such violence is unacceptable. Together, we can end violence against women and girls and this is long overdue,” said  UNICEF Nigeria Representative, Peter Hawkins. However, the report noted that despite the ongoing violence, some remarkable gains have been made in the 25 years since the Beijing Declaration. “Globally, more girls are going to school and staying in school than ever before, though in Nigeria, there is still a long way to go to ensure equality of education for girls, especially in the north-east, where 60 per cent of out-of-school girls in Nigeria are located,” the report noted. “Twenty-five years ago, the world’s governments made a commitment to women and girls, but they have only made partial good on that promise. “While the world has mustered the political will to send many girls to school, it has come up embarrassingly short on equipping them with the skills and support they need not only to shape their own destinies, but to live in safety and dignity,” said UNICEF Executive Director, Henrietta Fore. UNICEF therefore called for “expanded opportunities for girls of all backgrounds, ethnicities, and income and social status levels to be bold and ambitious change makers and solution designers actively engaging their voices, opinions and ideas in dialogues, platforms and processes that relate to their bodies, communities, education and futures. “Increased policy and programme investments to scale up promising models that accelerate progress for and with adolescent girls aligned to today’s world reality, including their skills development for the fourth industrial revolution and a generational movement to end gender-based violence, child marriage and FGM. “Increased investments in the production, analysis and use of high-quality age- and sex-disaggregated data and research in areas where knowledge is limited, such as gender-based violence, 21st century skills acquisition, adolescent nutrition and mental health.” 