In this feature, ACHOR ABIMAJE takes a look at the recent attack on the authority and students of University of Jos, by suspected lands grabbers. The tragic incident culminated to the death of one, while several houses rented by students and worship centres  were destroyed. Pandemonium broke out in Naraguta community of Jos north local government council following the killing of one person, while youths allegedly chopped off the finger of a student of the University of Jos. This happened when some people said to be  land grabbers who encroached into the lands, belonging to the University of Jos attempted to stop the school authority from carrying out fencing work. Our correspondent gathered that the incident occurred on Saturday morning, when combined security operatives stormed the area to demolish illegal houses built on the land belonging to the  institution. This development led to the burning of houses and places of worship by the rioters who went beserk following the erection of fences by the authority of the University of Jos to claim their encroached land. The quick intervention of the Nigeria Police Force at the scene of the incident, prevented the crisis from excalating  to Naraguta campus but left victims  counting their losses. However while students of the University of Jos were scampering  for safety, the security operatives quickly arrested two young men by name Zakariya and Yusuf while they were attempting to cause chaos in the area. Miss Midida Jabani a 400 level student in the department of special education whose finger was chopped off, cried and wailed in pain, calling on the federal and state government to deploy more security operatives to safeguard the vulnerable students of the University of Jos. Spokesperson of the Plateau State Police Command, ASP Ubah Gabriel who confirmed the incident said one person was killed while four houses were burnt. He disclosed that the police was on top of the situation and said investigation was ongoing to bring the perpetrators to book. The CAN chairman Rev. Canon Nenman Isa Gowon in a statement, said they cannot continue to suffer such a loss every time there is clash on that land and called on the authorities and security agents to rise to the ocassion. He said, “We are again being attacked in Jos North by some people who took over the land belonging to the university of Jos. These people came at around 11:30am today and burnt down at least ten houses in Naraguta villages. ” We want to make it clear to the government and security agents that while we continue to obey law and order, we want to call on them to bring these known persons to book or we will be forced to prosecute those who are saddled with responsibility to care for lives and property. “We cannot continue to be at a loss. I repeat we cannot continue to be at loss. These persons are known by the security personnel and the university whose land have been occupied.” Above all, the management of University of Jos in its reaction  said  its  attention  has been drawn to conflicting reports in the media, pertaining its effort at stemming further encroachment into its land by land grabbers. According to the school authority, the land in question which belonged to the defunct Nigerian Bricks and Clay Products Limited was purchased by the University through a competitive bidding from the Bureau for Public Enterprises (BPE). University of Jos in a statement signed and issued in Jos by Wilson Yale senior deputy registrar vice chancellors office for management said since the acquisition of the land, the University has been under siege by land grabbers, leading to erection of illegal structures most of which are built in the night. According to him, because the university is a law-abiding institution, it sought the intervention of the State Government, which led to the constitution of a 10 Man Committee under the leadership of the former Management Committee, Chairman of Jos North Local Government Council and the representative of the Ministry of Land, Survey and Town Planning University of Jos. Others, according to a statement are the  representative of the Jatau Family Jos Metropolitan Development Board (JMDB) MD/CEO Ron Properties Development Company, The District Head of Righizah Senior Ward Head of Naraguta and Ministry of Justice. He pointed out that the committee submitted its report to the State Government, after a careful study of the report, the State Government came up with a White-Paper in November, 2019 as the White-Paper authenticated the Certificate of Occupancy No PL9636 issued in 1988 measuring 119.50 Hectres issued to the Nigerian Bricks and Clay Products Limited, now property of the University of Jos. “The unfortunate incidence of Saturday, 22nd day of February, 2020 happened when the University was trying to secure its land by digging a trench to stop further encroachment into the land, when some irate youth forcefully chased workers on the site. Though this is not the first time they have been confronting the workers, the recent turned out to be the most violent in which students were attacked and wounded, houses rented by students of the university and a place of worship with several other property destroyed.” The statement  further stressed “As a result of this unfortunate incidence, the State Government summoned an emergency stakeholders meeting, which included the University of Jos Management, the two Traditional Rulers of Rigizah and Naraguta and others from the two communities. After exhaustive discussions, the Stakeholders sympathized with the victims of the incident and condemned the act of violence in totality. Yale also stated that the property in question is covered by a Certificate of Occupancy legitimately acquired by the University of Jos, the University therefore has the right to demarcate and secure its property against encroachment by land grabbers and should continue with the work it has started. “ As part of the recommendation, the University should dig its trench for the demarcation 3 Metres away from any existing old building. All illegal buildings that sprung up after the acquisition of the land by the University should be demolished. It was also recommended that an Implementation Advisory Committee would be set up for the implementation of the Government White-Paper.” The statement added that it is therefore preposterous for anybody to lay claim to the land and stop the legitimate owners from making use of their land, stating that the University of Jos Management notes with dismay the half-truths that have been fed the public as it is not the true reflection of what is on ground. Similarly the Anaguta youth movement in a statement recalled the incident of that Saturday, saying while going about their normal activities, some group of hoodlums decided to attack their community at Naraguta Village, in the guise of protesting the demarcation of land by the University of Jos authority. The statement which was signed by one Deacon Moses Dawang, National President Anaguta Youths Movement (AYM) said “As we are all aware, Anaguta are the aborigines of Jos North and the host community of all the land housing University of Jos, thereby making Anaguta the host community of the prestigious Institution.” The statement further noted that as the host community, they are aware that the University of Jos has legitimately and properly acquired every land it is situated upon. We the Anaguta Youths Movement are encouraging the authority of University of Jos and the Government to continue the demarcation of all their legitimate lands, in order to secure and protect Government properties against land grabbers, speculators and hoodlums who are bent on taking advantage of the University land that is not fenced.” According to the statement, Anaguta community is aware that University of Jos has acquired the land in question and has proper documents to that effect from the B.P.E and has every right to use such Lands as they deem fit, adding that any individual or group of persons that have any issue with University of Jos acquisition of any land, should follow legal means of addressing their grievances, rather than resulting to self help, which will lead to break down of law and order. “As a community, we all know that no one is above the law, so there is every need for the security agencies to be decisive in dealing with the people that have repeatedly attacked the management of the University of Jos, whenever they embark on a visit to their land. Also, the government was not spared from such attack by those hoodlums and land grabbers.” The statement is also calling on all Anaguta people that are alienating the property belonging to the University of Jos, to stop forth with or they shall handle them appropriately while  calling on the government to urgently reach out to their community that suffered a great loss, as a result of the last Saturday’s attack. As the people are left without houses that were destroyed by the hoodlums in the guise of protesting against the demarcation of land by the university authorities. In the same vein the Plateau Youth Council, Jos North Chairman Barr John Chris said this attack is amongst too many in Plateau State, so one would begin to wonder if really the governor is in charge of the security of our communities. He expressed sadness that the present regime has failed the electorate completely in their primary responsibility of safeguarding the lives and properties of its citizenry. Chris enjoyed the vulnerable community’s leaders to form vigilante group in order for them to protect themselves against invaders and land grabbers. Meanwhile the people of Naraguta community of Jos North Local Government of Plateau State have appealed to authorities at all levels, to compel the University of Jos to stop the fencing work it started in the disputed area in the interest of peaceful coexistence. This was the outcome of an emergency meeting convened by critical  stakeholders of the community  at the Senior Ward Head’s palace of the community Engr. Muhammad Bello, where he briefed the members of community on the meeting held with the secretary to the government of the state, Prof. Danladi Atu. According to a statement issued by Alhaji Abubakar Ibrahim Nuhu community elder said while commending authorities and security agencies for swiftly curtailing the mayhem that almost erupted as a result of an alleged shooting of a member of the community, by the security operatives sent to the area for the fencing work that resulted in the destruction of a worship centre and houses  by miscreants, the community was also quick to call on governments at all levels, to order the termination of the fencing project embarked upon by the University of Jos, as they are trying all that is needed to calm down youths of the community from taking law into their hands. The community stakeholders also recalled  the remote and immediate  causes of the problem as the perceived taking over of the land of the defunct Nigerian Bricks and Clay Products (a subsidiary under former Nigerian Mining Corporation) bought by the university from Bureau for Public Enterprise (BPE), in which the community raised concerns on the need to resolve some grey areas in the matter bordering on the actual extent of the NMC’s land sold to the university. Until this is resolved, the misunderstanding may not abate. “As a peace loving people, the community also appealed to all critical stakeholders from the neighboring Jos and other places to join them in making authority to see the reasons and importance of stopping the University of Jos from continuing the fencing project in the interest of peace, and to ensure  justice to both parties. Also the Narkuta-Babale Bayan Doka Development Association (NABBDA), said the University of Jos should reconsider its decision of land demarcation, until it addresses the grey areas of contention with the host community. The association said in a press release, issued  by its President, Ibrahim Shehu Muhammad. According to the statement  “The family of Wakili Jatau of Anaguta,” have allegedly led hoodlums into the Narkuta community, in the guise of protesting the land demarcation by the authority of the University, of Jos, which resulted to the lost of life and burning of a House and a worship center.” The Association said the Narkuta community been the immediate host community to the university, are fully aware that the university have acquired the said land in question from the Bureau for Public Enterprise (BPE). “We call on government and the authority of the University of Jos to as a matter of urgency, address the issue of grey areas on the land before going on with the demarcation exercise in order to stop any unfortunate incidents, that would lead to possible break down of law and order, and to an extent tampering with our hard earned peace,” they said. According to them government should also look into the bad condition of their dilapidated road and the issue of water supply in the community. “As law abiding community with high respect to constituted authority, we call on the State Government to consider the plight of the community in the areas of road rehabilitation as the major road leading to Narkuta Community was blocked by University of Jos, since 2001, hence denying us easy access into our community,” they plead. The association also said, “It is also worthy of mention that the same University of Jos, have blocked us from accessing potable water,” of which is a great cause of concern to them. 