As the outbreak of coronavirus continues to impact global oil prices, Nigeria’s external reserves maintained a steady downward trend dragging the value of the naira at the Investors and Exporters window down. The value of the naira on the I&E window closed at N366.25 last week Friday, weaker than N363 to the dollar which it was at the end of January this year. Investments from foreign portfolio investors (FPls) slowed across the world as Coronavirus posed a health challenge in almost all economies. With a slowdown in influx of foreign exchange-from portfolio investors, the Central Bank of Nigeria has been a major supplier of foreign exchange at the I&E window as it continued its stance of supporting the value of the naira. This had seen the external reserves decline by more than six per cent since the beginning of the year with the 30-days moving average dropping to $36.22 billion as at March 5, 2020 as against $38.53 billion which it was at the beginning of the year. The decline in global oil price according to analysts had an impact on the reserves as oil constitutes most of the foreign exchange earnings of the country. However recent plan by the OPEC to cut production by an additional 1.5 million barrel per day to support prices may provide a succor. OPEC recently announced plans to cut production by an additional 1.5 million barrel per day to support global oil prices, it however failed to reach a deal as Russia opposed further cuts at the end of the meeting on Friday. The immediate reaction to the outcome of the meeting was a moderation in Brent crude price to a three year low of $45.6.  With reports of unrestrained production starting on April 1, analysts say they expect Nigeria to be hit hard by the fall in oil prices. Analysts at Afrinvest West Africa in an emailed note said “we believe oil prices will remain pressured by waning demand as the virus continue to spread. We expect exchange rates to remain range-bound across different segments of the market in the meantime on the back of the apex bank’s intervention.” The value of the naira on the CBN spot rate closed the week at N307 to the dollar depreciating 5kobo from N306.95 but remained stable at the parallel market, naira at N360. At the I&E window, the NAFEX rate depreciated by N1.0 to settle at N366.25 as activity level rose 14.4 per cent to $3 billion from $2.6 billion recorded in the previous week. The total value of open contracts of the naira at the FMDQ Securities Exchange forex Futures Contract Market advanced by 2.2 per cent to $11.1 billion. The FEB 2021 instrument received the highest subscription of $133.4 million, taking total value to $968.8 million as foreign investors maintained preference for the 1-year OMO instrument. On the other hand, the MAR 2020 instrument recorded sell-offs which reduced subscription by $4.8 million to $1.2 billion.