Standard Chartered Plc has posted an underlying profit before tax of $4.2 billion in its results for the year and quarter ended 31 December 2019. The Financial Institution in a release to LEADERSHIP revealed that the underlying profit before tax grew by eight per cent to $4.2 billion in 2019, while statutory profit before tax up 46 per cent to $3.7 billion. For Africa and Middle East Performance, underlying operating profit before taxation stood at $684 million, representing a growth of 29 per cent higher with lower expenses and improved credit impairment partially offset by a two per cent decrease in income Underlying operating income of $2,562 million was down two per cent, while loans and advances to customers were up five per cent and customer accounts were down two per cent. Speaking on the performance, the Group chief executive of Standard Chartered, Bill Winters, said that “Discipline on the things we control and a sharp focus on where we are differentiated enabled us to grow underlying profit eight and improve earnings per share by 23 per cent in 2019, despite an increasingly challenging external environment. We are in the right markets guided by the right strategy and united through our purpose to drive commerce and prosperity. I am confident that we have set ourselves up for lasting success.” Also, Regional CEO, Africa and Middle East, Sunil Kaushal, said: “I am proud to say that 2019 was a strong year for the Bank. For Africa and Middle East, we were well-positioned for growth moving into the year and this is clearly illustrated in our results. Our strong performance demonstrates the transformation of the Africa and Middle East franchise despite a challenging macroeconomic backdrop across the region.” He added that “Our focus on accelerating our digital agenda and the transformation of our Retail Banking business proved successful as well. We launched eight digital banks across key markets in sub-Saharan Africa in less than a year, digitised our wealth management offering for the digital bank platform, and grew accounts by over 150,000. “We have had a good start to the business in 2020 and the underlying business excluding large deals continues to be resilient. As we move forward, the region is focused on executing swiftly against the strategy to drive growth and we are determined to support our clients achieve prosperity.”