Ushafa is a host community to the Usuma Dam that supplies water to the nation’s capital. However, residents continue to groan due to lack of connectivity to the water supply from the dam, TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes. Ushafa is a small Gbagyi community in Bwari Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory, created in October 1, 1996 by the regime of late military Head of State, General Sani Abacha. Basically, Ushafa is an embodiment of tourist attraction and represents an investor’s delight in the area of tourism. Several studies on tourism development in Nigeria have constantly placed the area council as one of the areas with the greatest potentials of tourism development in Nigeria. As visibly observed by LEADERHSIP Sunday, Ushafa community is located on a valley surrounded by mammoth rocks of possibly precambria age. The landscape is a beauty to behold as it is complemented by rich and attractive vegetation. Some of the neighboring villages include: Jigo, Peyi, Znibepe, Bmuko, Kutalu, Baupa, Gudupe, and Panda. Ushafa is bounded on the south-eastern corner by the Lower Usuma Dam, a major source of water to the Federal Capital Territory that supplies water to the entire capital city and satellite settlements. It is not out of place to state that the community is sited at the ‘river bank’ but the residents wash their hands with spittle. A drive from Abuja City to Ushafa takes about 20 minutes using a sound vehicle. FCT residents also go there for hiking. It is a fast-growing community which is tucked in the fringes of the Federal Capital Territory. In the year 2000 Ushafa played host to a former American President, Bill Clinton. When he visited Nigeria, he met with a rustic community of peasants and artisans going about their daily activities with the hope of better living conditions in the future. But 20 years after Clinton’s historic visit, the residents of Ushafa have remained in the same situation the former American President met them living. Till date the community is without water supply while the town is also gradually losing the allure of its age-long pottery art fortunes due to lack of patronage. For one to get to the Usuma Dam it takes about 15 minutes’ walk. The pottery community boasts good road network and beautiful landscape. Modern residential and commercial buildings, shopping complexes, schools and other structures under construction dot different parts of the town. For the community, the major source of water for drinking and domestic use is via borehole, as countless promises by the authorities of the Federal Capital Territory to give them water have continued to fall flat over the years. Many households and small businesses that cannot afford the cost of sinking boreholes rely on water vendors. More confounding to the residents is the fact that Kubwa, an adjourning satellite town within the same council area enjoys regular water supply from Usuma Dam. Same as Gwarimpa Estate, which is a few kilometres away. Some of the residents who spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday decried the neglect of the community by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and called on the authorities to connect the community to the water grid. They also lamented that they house the dam that provides water to other communities in the FCT but they are connected to it. The residents likened their situation to the bird that lays the golden egg. The traditional ruler of Ushafa community, Hakimi Esu, Ushafa Mohammadu Baba, decried that government has neglected them by not providing potable water for the community. He, however, called on FCT Water Board to expedite actions to connect them to the grid. He decried the continuous suffering of the residence to get drinkable water. Baba said when the Federal Capital Territory was moved from Abuja to Lagos on 3 February, 1976, there was an immediate plan to construct water dams to serve the water needs of the nation’s capital. He said the challenge to get potable water led to the construction of Usuma Dam in 1982. According to him, ‘’The authorities came that they want to construct a dam in Ushafa. I told them to connect the community as we reside here. We were told that they said they will relocate us but I asked them, relocate us to where? They now said we should remain in the community. ‘’They have constructed the dam ever since then, but we still buy water because we are not connected to the dam. The few people who are able to get water from the dam sell the water to other people. Though they have brought a pipe to my compound but I still don’t have water. Yet they provided certain points where they collect water rates. ‘’We have complained to the government but no action yet as we have not been connected to the dam.’’ He, however, urged the government to connect people to the water grid so that the community can enjoy potable water like every other FCT resident.  Another resident Aisha Zubairu said the government has deliberately refused to connect the residents to the water grid which brings untold hardship to them when it comes to having potable water. She noted that few persons in the community who are connected resell to other residents. According to her, ‘’Lack of water brings untold hardship to us. Only few persons in the community who are connected to the grid resell water to other residents. With the upsurge of coronavirus how do they want us to maintain our personal hygiene?” Corroborating Zubairu’s statement, Josiah Mohammed lamented that the Federal Capital Territory water board has played deaf ears to the needs of the host community. He said the community has made several efforts to have access to water which is the basic need of the man but has proved abortive over the time due to government’s negligence. A resident, Musa Abdullahi noted that only few individuals have been connected to the water. He said if you must connect to the dam, you will buy pipes and lay it yourself but pay bill to the government monthly. ‘’They should connect us directly to the water board themselves. Even the few people who are connected stay for over three days without water supply. ‘’If we are connected to the dam the suffering will be reduced because more people will have access to pipe borne water.’’