Gov. Ben Ayade of Cross River State has charged beneficiaries of National Industrial Skills Development Programme (NISDP), not to mortgage starter-packs made available to them by the NISDP at the passing out ceremony, for anything, but rather use the starter-pack to begin their own entrepreneurial ventures. Ayade gave the charge, while speaking on the need to own one own’s enterprise rather junketing from one city to the other in search of white color jobs that may hardly exist. The Governor who spoke at the closing ceremony of 2019 National Industrial Skills Development Programme (NISDP) where 300 graduands of the programme got starter – packs that can enable them set up their own small/ medium scale enterprise in different areas of human endeavor, urged beneficiaries of the programme to see the starter-packs as a starting point to whatever skill that they may have acquired. “See the starter-packs as a beginning point to greatness in whatever venture you want to embark upon. “When it come to beginning a business, nothing is too small, let me assure you that most successful businesses today were not started with big capital outlay but very little cash. Have it at the back of your mind that in business, nothing is too small”. Ayade maintained. Ayade who is being represented at the occasion by the State deputy Governor, Prof. Ivara Esu, averred that government was going to put a mechanism on ground to ensure that beneficiaries of the programme do not sell their starter-packs. The Cross a river State helmsman added that trainees of the NISDP were the ones who will form part of the available skilled workforce that will man the state Government’s industrial park being built by his administration in the three senatorial districts of the state. Responding, Director General/ Chief Executive of ITF, Sir Joseph Ari, who is represented by Director, Revenue Inspectorate/ Compliance Department, Mr. Stephen Ojigho, lauded the state Governor in his stride to industrialized the state. Ari said, “Let me thank Gov. Ayade,who had been a tremendous source of inspiration and bulwark of support for the implementation of our various skills acquisition programmes in Cross River State”. The ITF boss maintained that with the skills acquired by trainees, jobs can still be created to stem rampant unemployment and breed a new generation of entrepreneurs who can transform economic landscape of Nigeria. He said that over eleven thousand youths have been equipped with skills in nine trades in works, wielding/fabrication, catering and event management, tiling, production and laying interlock tiles, furniture making, solar energy installation and others. Ari averred that about 300 youths have been trained in Cross River State so that they can be come self reliant. “We believe that given the intensity and very practical nature of training, which was 80% practical and 20% theory, our trainees have been equipped with necessary skills and attitude that can make them thrive as employers/ entrepreneurs”. The ITF boss stressed.