Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, has assured residents of the state that his government is already working on palliatives to ease the pressure on the people following the partial shutdown of activities as part of the precautionary measures to curtail the spread of Covid-19.  The governor added that the state would need to work on accurate data and design that would ensure the palliatives get into the hands of those who truly need them.  According to him, it is important that the palliatives to be put in place get to those with genuine needs for them and that they are not cornered by middlemen.  The governor in statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Taiwo Adisa, indicated that Governor Makinde stated these during a phone-in interview programme on Ibadan-based radio programme as well as and a one-hour Tweetchat via his Twitter handle @seyiamakinde on Saturday.  The statement noted that the government had stepped up enlightenment campaigns on Covid-19, while also enforcing measures on the lockdown of activities in the state.  Makinde maintained that as part of measures to contain the spread of the disease in the state, the state government in collaboration with the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, has set up a diagnostic centre to handle testing of samples, noting that the state was only awaiting NCDC endorsement.  He explained that once the centres were certified, it would become easier to test more people, adding that apart from the preventive measures, the state had set up isolation centres, with four-bed isolation unit in Ogbomoso, 10-bed at Jericho, four-bed at UCH and 100-bed capacity at Olodo, Ibadan, which will be ready on Thursday. He noted that the ICU beds in the state currently have ventilators.  The governor further noted that the state has Disease Surveillance and Notification Officers in all 33 LGAs and 35 LCDAs adding that Local Government Caretaker chairpersons were already involved in enlightenment campaigns and implementation of directives, complementing the state-wide campaign and efforts to prevent Covid-19 in the state.  Makinde, who maintained that the state has ensured that health workers have the required equipment and personal gears, and that wherever it identified gaps, it would immediately plug them, counselled the people in the state to stay safe by following the proper hygienic practices –  washing of hands regularly or using an alcohol-based hand sanitisers and also practising social distancing.  The governor explained that the though the administration understood the challenge of asking residents to stay at home, the decision to shut down activities was in the best interest of the state as according to him, it would be effective in curtailing the spread of the virus. He said: “It is a challenge that we asked people to stay home and don’t have palliatives to give them. The oil price is at its lowest. What we get from Federal Allocation is almost half of what we were getting at the beginning of this administration.  “So, when you put all of those together, it is a big challenge and we are almost left with nothing.  “Even, if we want to do palliatives, how do we run it to ensure that they will get to the people who really need them? But we will welcome anyone with bright ideas to come forward and we will sit down together to evaluate those ideas.  “We are working on palliatives. But we want to set it up in such a way that it’s not middlemen that will profit but those who need the palliatives.”  According to him, it has put up additional measures to combat the pandemic, including the reduction of gathering from 30 to 10 people, closure of markets to all traders except those selling foodstuffs and a 7p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew as well as a ban on transportation to and from the state.