In this interview Abdulkadir Hassan the Chief Executive Officer  CEO of ZHE Africa Ltd and export consultant says Nigeria can grow her economy exponentially, by tapping into the great potentials of coconut farming. He spoke with CHIKA IZUORA. Excerpt. Nigeria ranks among first 20 in global coconut production, how has it impacted the economy? Even though the country is among the top 20 producers, a large chunk of coconut being consumed is imported from neighbouring countries with Ghana supplying about 60 per cent. Other suppliers include Republic of Benin and Togo. However, recent partial closure of land boarders has affected the supplies; the retail price has skyrocketed across the country. This has also motivated local farmers and would-be players to go into coconut farming, especially with the improved species that start fruiting early. Nigeria is the 19th largest producer of coconut in the world, producing about 288,000 metric tons per annum on 39,000 hectares harvested area. While Indonesia with yearly output of 17.6m metric tons remains the largest producer and Malaysia has output of 590,000 metric tons per annum as the 10th largest producer. Hence Nigeria’s output is roughly about half of Malaysia. On the other hand the country has the potential of being among the top three largest producers if the area under cultivation is increased, new plantation developed and modern farming techniques employed. The impact is yet to be fully optimised as the level of value addition is still low, with most of the derivatives being imported from mostly Asian countries. However, these are about to change with growing awareness and interest as more processing facilities are being established. As there is growing awareness on potential impacts and importance of this special crop; it be used to produce a wide range of products and byproducts. Juice, oil, confectioneries, milk, sugar/sweetener, syrup, chips and so on could be produced from the nut. The coir and husk are used to produce foot and door mats, bed, mattresses, carpets, flower pots, baskets, blocks, aquariums, mosquito repellant, briquettes and charcoal amongst others. Even the leaves and the trunk serve as source of extra income, as they can be used to produce brooms, mats, bagging and packaging materials, thatch roof, sheds, camps, furniture and containers. The increasing interest in food safety and growing demand for healthy food and beverages, the consumers continued to demand for coconut based products, for example coconut based sugar, milk and snacks are friendly and very safe for consumption. People with special needs and those that prefer organic foods have continued to patronize coconut based food and beverages. Going by production index, what volume do we produce annually? Nigeria produces about 288,000 metric tons per annum on 39,000 hectares harvested area.  The consumption level is estimated at about… on the other hand the country has the potential of being among the top three largest producers if the area under cultivation is increased, new plantation developed and modern farming techniques employed. This low production is mainly as a result of old plantation, low level of technology adaptation and low-producing varieties.  With new plantations emerging as well as adapting innovation and modern farm production techniques, the output would significantly increase, thereby reducing reliance on neighbouring countries. Even the derivatives are being imported for example out of about 7000 tons of coconut oil is being consumed only 1500 tons is being produce locally. What are the potentials of growth in the sector? The growing demands for coconut and its derivatives from domestic and international market makes coconut farming and processing very attractive. Even the demand from the country is huge, taking into the large population.  There is high demand from food and beverage, healthcare, manufacturing, cosmetics and chemical industries amongst others. Hence it offers dual benefits of preserving and attracting foreign exchange. Value addition offers more opportunities taking into account job and wealth building avenues to be created across the chain. As a result low level of value addition, the country imports coconut derivatives from mostly Asian countries. Even the row nuts produced in the country are grossly insufficient, as such import from neighbouring nations, mainly Ghana, Togo and Benin is used to bridge the gap. The boarder closure has further put pressure on demand as the volume of coconut coming from these countries has drastically reduced; the retail prices of coconut and its associated products have been on the increase across the country. Examples of household coconut flesh products include chips, flakes, snacks, confectioneries, sugar, milk, oil, pastries etc. while the waste and the byproducts could be used to produce hundreds of goods; rope, carpet, building block, packaging bags, briquette, biofertilizer, furniture, matt, carpet and charcoal amongst others. The opportunities are so diverse. From the primary farming where there is need to upscale production through yield improvement strategies, developing new plantations as most of the existing ones are old plantations, cultivation of improved varieties and adapting technology and innovation amongst others. All these can be translated into opportunities in terms of job and wealth creation, poverty alleviation, emergence of innovative enterprises, foreign exchange earnings and so on. However, above presents opportunities to stimulate and grow the local market, as there are lots of attractive and rewarding businesses across the value chain that the local enterprises can key into. It is a matter of creating the needed awareness on economic importance of the crop. Already a number of local entrepreneurs have begun to develop interest in the crop. From 2015 to date there has been a growing number of both local and foreign entities engaged in coconut business; new plantations are being developed, processing facilities being set up and waste management facilities are being developed. Below are some of the opportunities that can be harnessed across the crop value chain. What is the actual local demand for coconut? The demand for coconut and its products have been growing steadily. From 2014 to 2018, the demand grew by over 500 per cent   and is still growing. The country’s output of 288,000 tons is grossly insufficient .  imports from neighbouring countries are used to bridge the gap. Its oil which is high in demand also, Nigeria consumes over 7000 tons but only less than 1500 ton is produced locally. Preference for organic and healthy food is also contributing to the growing demand in the domestic market. People are getting aware that coconut can be used as healthy nutrient rich food e.g. coconut milk, sweetener and many other food and beverage products. Are there by products of coconut and can they be harnessed and turn into commercial value? All parts of coconut have economic values and can be processed into many income yielding products. The coir and husk are used to produce foot and door mats, bed, mattresses, carpets, flower pots, baskets, blocks, aquariums, mosquito repellant, briquettes and charcoal amongst others. Even the leaves and the trunk serve as source of extra income, as they can be used to produce brooms, mats, bagging and packaging materials, thatch roof, sheds, camps, furniture and containers. Other byproducts include rope, carpet, building block, packaging bags, briquette, biofertilizer, furniture, matt, carpet and charcoal amongst others. The kernel can be processed to extract oil and into other industrial and household items. In fact hundreds of products can be generated from coconut plant and its waste. The shell can be used to produce building and construction materials, the trunk and fibre serve as raw materials for generating packaging items, briquette, building materials, mart and so on. If properly harnessed, how much in forex can Nigeria earn from its export? The global market is worth about USD4b, up-scaling production using modern technologies and innovation, Nigeria can take advantage of the growing market. The raw coconut itself and most of its products including the byproducts are exportable as they are in demand. Being a healthy industrial raw material and source of many household products, it can be used in many sectors, and growing world population has continued to grow the market. Coconut waste can be processed and converted into useful products as every part of coconut is useful. In fact hundreds of products can be generated from coconut plant and its waste. The growing demand for organic and eco-friendly products has continued to brighten the export market potentials. In 2016 about 700m litres of coconut water worth about USD2.2b was traded. The shell can be used to produce building and construction materials, the trunk and fibre serve as raw materials for generating packaging items, briquette, building materials, mart and so on. As stated all parts of coconut tree are of economic value, nothing is wasted except where there is no knowledge of how to utilize it.  There are hundreds of products that can be derived for coconut waste. Some of the products are exportable and they have continued to attract growing demand. The opportunities are more, it is left for the interested Nigerians to key into the value chain. It is a wakeup call for developing new plantations and expanding the existing ones, as the key reasons why the country is yet to produce enough coconut to meet its demand are that the area under cultivation is still very small, poor yield due to old plantation and low level of awareness among others. There is need for the relevant authorities to invest in massive sensitization and provide the needed technical and related support, as in other jurisdictions. Promotion of value addition too is very essential considering the fact large sum of money is being spent every year on importing coconut products from Indonesia, China, India and so on. When we examine its use, What can be made out of its usage domestically? Because of its diverse uses, it has many nick names such tree of life, wonder tree and so on. As there are many products that can be generated from coconut, it would surely impacts on the domestic economy especially with value addition. It is capable of generating foreign exchange, creating wealth building job opportunities. What are the major challenges facing coconut farmers? The major challenges include low yield due to old plantations, inadequate extension support, and low application of technology, inadequate access to affordable funds, and low level of awareness among others. Also poor farming practices contribute to low yield. The standard practice requires that reasonable spacing be allowed and while waiting for the trees to start fruition, intercropping can be employed to ease cashflows and get optimal yield. Instead of planting about 180 trees per hectare for optimal production many farmers plant hundreds thereby affecting the yield thus reducing profitability. These challenges could be addressed through capacity building, as when the farmers understand efficiency of the standard practices, they would be motivated to drop the old habit.