The House of Representatives has condemned the elite and public officials for always flouting security rules especially at the nation’s airports. While declaring the practice as unacceptable, the House directed that from henceforth such persons no matter their status must be made to face security checks at the airports and other public places. The directive came from a motion on the need to address the lacklustre attitude of security operatives at the airports,” which was sponsored by Hon. Akin Alabi. Alabi said that despite clearcut regulations, passengers were still allowed to carry drinks, water and other items into planes, even after having supposedly being checked by the security operatives. He said: “The House is aware that some security officers at the airports are overwhelmed by the overbearing attitude of some elite or public office holders, who by reason of their status and/or positions refuse to comply with basic rules and regulations The lawmaker said that that the unruly behaviours BY GBOYEGA ADEOYE Governor of Ekiti State, Dr John Kayode Fayemi has ordered that 16 prominent traditional rulers in the state be issued queries for acts of “insubordination.” Fayemi issued the first class monarchs the queries, giving them 72 hours to answer for daring to reject the upgrade of the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti and naming him as chairman of the State Traditional Rulers Council. Meanwhile, feelers on ground suggest that the 16 traditional rulers, may not respond to the query, suggesting a looming crisis in a state that has for some time been enjoying relative peace. Fayemi was said to have issued the query on the ground that the 16 traditional rulers disregarded his order and refused to attend meetings called by his favourite, the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi. Gbade Ademola, a public affairs commentator and indigene of Ekiti State who spoke to our correspondent, described the governor’s action as a sacrilege and an attempt to rewrite history which the people would resist. An adjustment was effected, when Akure decided to secede and form Akure Kingdom through Ajapada. Obo was also ceded to Kwara. So, the Elemure of Emure Ekiti, Attah of Ayede and Olomuo were screened by the then Obas and absorbed into Pelupelu by certain individuals were accommodated by some security personnel who in a bid to obtain favour(s) forget that no one is above the law and in the process risk endangering other passengers”. In adopting the motion, the House urged the Aviation Security (AVSEC) to improve on the training and orientation of its security personnel. It also urged the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to ensure that equipment for effective and efficient screening of passengers were provided and are in good working conditions. In another development, the House stressed need to provide and protect the interests of blind students (special students) in the higher institutions of learning following a motion sponsored by Hon. Henry Nwawuba. He noted that the educational system was largely structured in favour of the able-bodied men and women in tertiary institutions even though the society has special students, especially those who have deformity of sight. Consequently, the House urged the Federal Ministry of Education, the National Universities Commission (NUC) and other educational institutions to evolve programmess aimed at affording special students opportunities to attain their full potential. Also yesterday, the House of Representatives read forthe second time, a Bill seeking to criminalise the stigmatisation of victims of insurgency and militancy in the country. The bill amongst other things, aims at protecting the rights to dignity and association of persons who have fallen victims of terrorism and militancy, and ensure equal opportunity and reintegration of such victims into their communities. The bill, which is sponsored by Hon. Ben Igbakpa, is titled: “A Bill for an Act to Make Provision for the Prohibition of Stigmatization of Persons who are Victims of Insurgency or Militancy from Integration with the Community and to Provide for the Prosecution and Punishment of Any Person or Group of Persons who Stigmatises such Victims.”