Officially, Nigeria’s recuperating economy garnered some feats in the last quarter of 2019. It beat a long period of fragility of about four years after exiting recession and made a record Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rate of 2.55 per cent in Q4 2019. Year-on-year, the economy recorded growth rate of 2.27 per cent in 2019, compared to 1.91 per cent recorded in growth in 2018. The relative price stability in international oil economy was largely responsible. Oil contributed 8.78 per cent to real GDP in 2019. The Oil sector contributed 7.32 per cent to the total real GDP in Q4 2019, up from figures recorded in the corresponding period of 2018 but down compared to the preceding quarter, where it contributed 7.06 per cent and 9.77 per cent respectively. The non-oil sector which is supposed to help Nigeria cushion its economy from the vulnerability of oil market economy performed poorly. It grew by 2.26 per cent in real terms during the referenced quarter (Q4 2019), according to the figures that were released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) last week. This was lower by 0.44 per cent points compared to the rate recorded in the same quarter of 2018 but 0.42 per cent point higher than the third quarter of 2019. The economic growth was driven by consumer spending and business investment. Many, including domestic and international watchers believe the GDP growth depicts an underdog that has surpassed many predictions – including the one from IMF. While it can be argued that the growth is more than a flash in a pan, it is also safe to posit that the economy is still in a state of stagflation given the high rate of unemployment and double-digit inflation rate. Headline inflation rose to 12.13 per cent in January (0.15) higher than the 11.98 per cent of 2019 December. Inflation rate has been on steady rise since the last five months, forcing the Central Bank of Nigeria to retain exchange rate at 13.5 per cent in January.  Implication Professor of Economics and Public Policy, University of Uyo, Akpan Ekpo aligns with those who have called for celebration over the breakeven in economic achievement. His joy is that the positive growth is close to the three per cent population growth rate. But it is still far below the growth rate needed to make a dent on poverty reduction. What is driving the growth? It must be accepted that crude oil export drives the economy. When the economy entered a recession in 2016, the oil sector registered a negative growth rate of almost -15 per cent. When the oil sector recovered, the economy existed the recession. “This scenario is dangerous because revenue from oil is exogenous – we have no control of both the price and output. Moreover, oil is non-renewable and the developed and emerging nations are moving away from oil as an energy source. Hence, the Nigerian economy must be diversified to earn foreign exchange away from oil,” said Prof Ekpo. Another point to note is that even with the 2.27 per cent growth rate, the economy is still producing below potential output as indicated by the high rates of unemployment and underemployment.  Is The Growth Sustainable? There is a mixed bag of views over the sustainability of the 2019 Q4 growth; especially in the first quarter of 2020. The need to stay on the fence and watch how key economic variables unfold in the coming months is based on key factors that include the fact that – two months to the new fiscal year, the fiscal authorities are yet to make or announce capital releases for implementation of the 2020 national budget. That alone is holding down economic activities in the real or non-oil sector. Despite impressive revenue mobilization through aggressive tax drive, the economy appears to be heading for a declining trajectory as real incomes and weak investment continue to weigh on economic activity. As noted by the IMF in its February report on Nigeria, ‘high fiscal deficits are complicating monetary policy.’ Whereas the Monetary Policy Committee of the CBN had warned the fiscal authorities to build revenue buffers against a possible drop in oil prices, the fiscal authorities have gone ahead to even deplete already built up buffers as the Excess Crude Account (ECA) has been depleted from about $2.07 billion in mid-2015 to $70 million as at February 19, 2020. The high cost of lending in the money market is another cause for concern. Not a few people believe that the all high interest rate across the economy and the CBN-regulated Cash to Deposit Ratio needs to be reduced from its current 65 per cent stance to encourage lending to the real sector and create employment. Active business activities drive every economy through hiring of workers, increase in wages and investing in business expansion.  How To Sustain Rrowth Rate Nigeria belongs to the same category as Malaysia but cannot measure up with the later in terms of economic growth and development. The Malaysian economy is stable despite domestic and external challenges. Recent IMF rating of the Malaysian economy showed that the authorities are making progress on their reform agenda including governance reforms and measures to improve the transparency and management of public finances. Obviously, for Nigeria to have an economic growth that has the potential of reducing unemployment, stabilising the economy and sustaining growth, there is need, basically, to engage policies that are focused on medium-term fiscal consolidation, while safeguarding growth and financial stability. Beyond that, structural reforms are needed to enshrine in law main governance measures, and to boost productivity to achieve high income status and inclusive growth. Chief executive officer, Sofunix Investment and Communications, Mr Sola Oni belongs to the league of those who hold that the current GDP growth would be sustained with lower interest rate regime. “Nigeria can grow the non-oil sector by operating a regime of lower interest rate in order to reduce the cost of borrowing. This singular approach shall increase consumer spending and investment. The real wages should be increased by ensuring that nominal wages is above inflation. By this model, consumers’ disposable income will increase,” Oni said. Like Oni, many think enabling operating environment where infrastructure is optimised will spur rapid production, enhance export of goods, generate foreign currency and boost external reserves. Prof Ekpo could not agree less when he said in an interview that the 36 states of the federation and the FCT must build their economies and rely less on the federal government. To sustain the growth trajectory, Ekpo said the economy must invest heavily on hard infrastructure such as power, railways, roads etc as well as soft infrastructure (education and health). Apart from that, he thinks policies, strategies and programmes must be geared towards industrialisation if the growth trajectory is to be sustained. “For development to occur, at least 80 per cent of the population must have access to quality education, health, secured environment, good housing, running water, electricity, among others,” he added. Clearly, policies that would boost activities in financial services, agriculture, industrial sector and telecommunications should be pursued for Nigeria not just to achieve sustainable economic growth but development. The country should adopt the suggestion of IMF that non-oil revenue mobilisation—including through tax policy and administration improvements—remains urgent to ensure financing constraints are contained and the interest payments to revenue ratio sustainable. The expectation is that the drivers of the economy will look beyond oil, move on with planned reforms despite oil price swings, a possibility they say will help lift the growth rates to the right positions. External vulnerabilities are increasing in Nigeria. That is reflecting in a higher current account deficit and declining reserves that remain highly vulnerable to capital flow reversals. However, the exchange rate has remained stable, helped by steady sales of foreign exchange in various windows. Managing director, APT Securities and Funds Ltd, Malam Garba Kurfi believes that government should deliberately pursue friendly fiscal and economic policies that would boost activities in the non-oil sector. Kurfi stated that policies that would boost activities in financial services, agriculture, industrial sector and telecommunications should be pursued. For analysts at United Capital said that the Central Bank of Nigeria’s unorthodox monetary policies would keep cost of capital low through 2020. “We believe faster GDP growth is unlikely in the near term, given the ongoing necessary but conflicting fiscal policy actions such as increase in VAT and possible hike in electricity tariffs may hurt consumption. In their view, the continued closure of the land borders may hurt aggregate demand as a result of increased prices, but has a positive effect on local production. Subsisting concerns around policy unpredictability which has been one of the biggest impediments to FDI flows and investment generally, as well as the reluctance to implement reforms that will spur private sector growth is worrisome. “A tepid outlook for crude oil prices amid demand shortages and the likelihood of a deeper supply cut in crude oil suggest a negative impact on the broader growth number. President Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mr. Mansur Ahmed has explained why it is not time to celebrate the new growth. He pointedly noted that the 2019 Q4 GDP though positive was still largely below desirable for the nation’s economy.