Nigeria and the Japanese government have signed an $18.2 million agreement to strengthen the capacity of Network laboratories of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The grant is basically for accurate laboratory and medical investigations. Japanese Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Yutaka Kikuta who signed on behalf of the Japanese Government said that the Agreement was to support the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control to strengthen its surveillance system of infectious diseases and improve its capacity for early response to Public Health concerns in Nigeria. Mr Kikuta further explained that the project involves that construction of a Central Public Health laboratory in Lagos as well as the procurement of necessary equipment to 8 different laboratories which are  located at the following: (i) the Central Public Health laboratory in Lagos, (ii) University of Lagos Teaching Hospital virology laboratory, (iii) National Hospital Abuja (iv) University College Hospital Ibadan (v) University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, (vi) Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital Edo State ,(vii) University of Benin Teaching Hospital and (viii) University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital. Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba who signed on behalf of the Nigerian government praised the efforts of the Japanese government in fulfilling the promise made by the its Prime Minister, Mr Shinzo Abe to Nigeria at the TICAD 7 Conference at Tokoyo in 2019. Prince Agba lauded the timely signing of the agreement, especially now that “the COVID- 19 (corona virus) has become a global concern and every country is doing its best to protect its territory and citizenry”, adding that the initiative will help in complementing the efforts of government in the fight against infectious diseases. He reassured the Japanese Ambassador of Nigeria’s commitment to creating an enabling environment to sustain the relationship between both countries in achieving the sustainable economic development of the Nigerian nation, according to a statement that was signed by the ministry’s director, media, Victoria Agba-Attah. Mr Kikuta commended the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control for the  pivotal role they are playing in the management of the corona virus outbreak in Nigeria, adding that the Government of Japan remains committed to her pledges and will continue to support Nigeria’s effort at strengthening its health  system. In her vote of thanks, the permanent secretary Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Olusola Idowu expressed the ministry’s commitment to sustaining the relationship with the Japanese Government and to further explore avenues for future collaboration. 