Following the identification of one case of COVID-19, known as Coronavirus in Lagos last week, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) said that it has opened two isolation wards at the National Hospital and at the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, Gwagwalada for suspected cases of the virus. Director of FCT public health department, Dr Josephine Okechukwu, who disclosed this to newsmen in Abuja at the weekend, stated that although there has not been any identified case of the virus in the FCT, that the administration is taking all necessary measures in case it occurs. Okechukwu revealed that at the moment, that there is an ongoing training by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Keffi, Nasarawa State, for health care workers that would manage the virus if it occurs in any part of the territory. She added that a lot is also being done in the FCT for passengers from the high-risk countries that are coming through the Nnamdi International Airport, Abuja by screening them on arrival, taking their temperature as well as taking other necessary details. The director of public health stated that the department has also trained over 200 health workers in Abuja Municipal area council (AMAC) and Abaji area council on Lassa fever and Coronavirus, while sensitization of residents is ongoing in all the six area councils of the FCT. “For us in the department of public health, we have been sensitizing the communities. We have gone through the six area councils, except Abaji to sensitise them on Lassa fever and the Coronavirus. “For the health care workers, there have been ongoing trainings on Coronavirus and Lassa fever and other epidemic-prone diseases. Over 200 healthcare workers have so far been trained in AMAC and Bwari area councils. She therefore advised residents to stop the panic over the virus, just as she enjoined them to take the necessary preventive measures of personal hygiene like washing hands with soap and water, minimising the culture of hand shake and hug, use of alcoholic sanitisers, covering of mouth when coughing as well as keeping the environment clean, to stop these viruses from growing in the environment.  