National Coordinator and Chief Executive Officer, African Union Development Agency- New Partnership for Africa’s Development/African Peer Review Mechanism, Princess Gloria Akobundu, Nigeria has reiterated the need for the society to create enabling environment for women to contribute their potentials for societal development Akobundu made the call in her message to mark 2020 edition of World Women’s Day on March 8 with the theme: I am Generation Equality: Realizing Women’s Rights. According to her, there is need to create enabling environment for women and potential women to contribute their quota towards societal development and gender inequality is detrimental to the society it exists, not the women alone. “Any society that large fractions of her women are economically stable and educated usually do well collectively as a people. “Societies are struggling with various vices because majority of their women are not adequately empowered to support their families, therefore they go out to labour for long in order to fill the gap. “Children with good parenting, especially motherly care are rarely engaged in vices because their parents are quick to take note of their strange behaviours, but when they are left in self-care, they see vices to be normal,” she said. The CEO called on Civil Society organisations and philanthropists to do more in empowering women so that they could help in raising productive families. She commended the Federal Government for its efforts in ensuring women were not left behind in the administration, while appreciating women for giving their best. “President Muhammadu Buhari has been mindful of Women’s importance as we have witnessed women appointed into the key positions like Ministers, Heads of Departments and Agencies of Government. “The government has also been putting women top on its Social Investment Programmes (SIP) list, like Trader Money, Home Grown School Feeding Programme etc targeted at people at the bottom of the pyramid and they appreciate the interventions. “It is therefore left for the electorate, especially women to ensure election of women into political offices so that the society and the nation can benefit more from their given talents,” she said. Akobundu added that AUDA-NEPAD/APRM Nigeria would continue to partner with relevant Stakeholders/ Agencies within and outside the country to ensure greater development of human and other resources of the nation as well as promote good government. The CEO of APRM Nigeria also called on women and the general public to proffer solutions on how to further deepen participatory governance and economic development during the town hall meetings for the second Peer Review Process of the country. “The Federal Government is ready to make use of grassroots recommendations to challenges confronting the nation, hence the ongoing implementation of Second Cycle Review of the country,” she said. APRM is an African Union (AU) voluntary self-assessment instrument already acceded to by 38 countries in finding lasting solutions to their governance and developmental challenges by sharing experiences among themselves. 