TARKAA DAVID in this report looks at major strikes against insurgents, executed by the Nigerian Air Force in continuation of Operation Rattle Snake. The Nigerian Air Force in December 2019 launched Operation Rattle Snake 3 after a close review of the successes recorded in previous Operations Rattle Snake 1&2, which helped the battlespace for the ground onslaught against Boko Haram and their affiliate Islamic State West Africa Province ISWAP in the Northeast. The importance of air power cannot be over emphasised while planning modern warfare, this is due to the difficult terrain occupied by the adversaries who sneak out to launch an attack on soft targets mostly civilians and occasionally small military units. As part of efforts to weaken the terrorist ranks, the Operation Rattle Snake 3 targets selected logistics facilities and camps which are considered staging areas and supply hub.  Air Strikes At Alafa Yagayaga On 8 February, 2020, the Nigerian Air Force air Strikes neutralized key Boko Haram terrorist leaders at Alafa Yagayaga on the fringes of Sambisa forest in Borno State. The Air Strike according to authorities was executed following credible intelligence reports indicating that the BHT leaders had converged at the target compound for a meeting over the weekend. The statement said the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole dispatched fighter jets to obliterate a compound in the settlement where the leaders had assembled for a meeting. “Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, which confirmed the meeting venue, also observed several BHTs in and around other buildings in the vicinity of the compound. “Bombs from the detailed attack aircraft scored accurate hits on the target leading to the obliteration of the compound and surrounding structures as well as the neutralization of their BHT occupants,” he said  Destruction Of ISWAP Training Camp On the same day, the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole destroyed another training camp belonging to the Islamic State West African Province ISWAP at Kirta Wulgo. The NAF disclosed that the troops dealt another devastating blow on ISWAP with the destruction of their training camp at Tumbun Zarami on the fringes of Lake Chad in Borno State. He said the mission was conducted on 16 February 2020 after successive days of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions as well as intelligence reports from multiple sources, including the Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) Headquarters, revealed that training activities were being carried out in and around some makeshift structures hidden under the shrubbery within the settlement. “Consequently, the ATF detailed its attack aircraft the engage the “Training Camp 4”, scoring accurate hits which led to the destruction of the suspected camp commander’s house as well as some other structures within the camp,” he said.  Air Strikes At Kaza The Nigerian Air Force has in continuation of Operation RATTLE SNAKE 3, eliminated some Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) terrorists and destroyed compounds housing them at Kaza in the Northern part of Borno State. The director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, in a statement said the airstrike was executed on 5 February 2020 following credible intelligence reports indicating that some ISWAP elements, who relocated from nearby Tongule, had set up camp in a cluster of compounds at Kaza, along with their logistics supplies. He said the identified location within the settlement was attacked by the ATF’s fighter jets after confirmatory Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions showed significant presence of terrorists. “This resulted in the destruction of the structures and the neutralization of some of the ISWAP fighters”. In the same commitment, the ATF destroyed an Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) training camp at Kirta Wulgo on the fringes of the Lake Chad in the Northern part of Borno State. The director of Public Relations and Information Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola in a statement said the airstrikes were conducted on 16 February 2020, following credible intelligence reports as well as series of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions which established that some structures within the settlement were being used by the terrorists to house and train their fighters. “Accordingly, the ATF dispatched an enhanced force package of attack aircraft to engage the identified locations within the settlement. The fighter jets took turns attacking the target area in successive passes taking out the training facilities,” he said. He restated that the NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its air campaign to shape the battlespace in the Northeast for the effective conduct of further ground and air operations.  NAF Strikes ISWAP Meeting Venue The Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE in on 20 February 2020 neutralized top Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP) leaders at two separate meeting venues in Borno State. These airstrikes were conducted on 20 February 2020 targeting locations at Jubillaram and Alinwa in the Northern part of Borno State, where some key Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) leaders assembled for meetings at the 2 locations. He said the mission was executed on the heels of credible intelligence reports indicating that some key ISWAP leaders had assembled for meetings, which were being held simultaneously at 2 separate venues, at Jubillaram and Alinwa in Marte Local Government Area. Accordingly, the ATF scrambled its attack aircraft to engage both locations, damaging the meeting venues and neutralizing the terrorists. These airstrikes have led to not just the destruction of terrorist facilities, but also the elimination of its top commanding leaders which has put them in chaos.  Destruction Of Terrorists Facilities At Garin Maloma In continuation of the onslaught against Boko Haram terrorists and their affiliate Islamic State in West Africa Province ISWAP the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), through the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE, destroyed some Boko Haram Terrorist (BHT) structures and logistics facilities at Garin Maloma and Parisu in the Sambisa Forest general area of Borno State. Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola in a statement said the airstrikes were executed on 23 and 24 February 2020 following credible intelligence reports indicating that elements of the BHTs carried out the attack on Garkida in Adamawa State originated from camps within the Sambisa Forest. He noted that in furtherance of the ongoing Operation Rattle Snake 3, the ATF dispatched its attack aircraft to engage both locations, destroying several structures housing the terrorists as well as some of their logistics stores, which were seen engulfed in flames.  Destruction Of ‘S’ Region In Sambisa The Air Task Force (ATF), Operation LAFIYA DOLE also neutralized some Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and destroyed some of their facilities in air strikes conducted on 27 February 2020 in Sambisa Forest. The service in an official statement said the airstrike targeted at a location referred to as the “S” Region in the heart of the Sambisa Forest, Borno State. The director stated that the airstrikes were executed in continuation of Operation RATTLE SNAKE 3 after series of Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions indicated that the BHTs; with their vehicles, motorcycles and logistics facilities camouflaged under the dense forest vegetation; had intensified activities in the “S” Region with a view to launching further attacks on civilian settlements and troops’ locations in the area. He said the ATF detailed its fighter jets and helicopter gunships to attack the location, scoring crucial hits leading to the neutralization of some BHT fighters as well as the destruction of some of their structures. He restated that the NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its air campaign to shape the battlespace in the Northeast for the effective conduct of further ground operations The successes of this Operation paved way for the newly launched Operation Decisive Edge which is targeted at terrorist hideouts inaccessible by ground troops. The federal forces with the air component have been able to destroy the ranks of the terrorists and caused confusion in their camp with news of the execution of its top few Commanders who survived airstrikes. One can only hope that the airstrikes will be sustained in order to totally wipe out the terrorists from the nation’s territory and restore peace and tranquility in the once peaceful land. 