Worried by the standard of tertiary education in Nigeria, Dakota Wesleyan University in collaboration with the Nigerian Defence Academy Centre For Leadership Study is set to organised a stakeholders conference to discuss the challenges facing higher institutions in the country. The event is scheduled to hold on March 12, 2020 at the Musa Yar’Adua Centre,  Abuja. Coverner of the conference, Professor John Ifediora, while briefing journalists on Thursday during pre conference media chat lamented that every serious minded and development focused nation should be concerned with what is happening in their education sector especially given the critical importance of higher education as a tool for social, economic and political development of a country. Professor Ifediora said Nigeria has to improve the state of its education institutions in order to afford its citizenry the opportunity to acquire skills and techniques that are conducive to human productivity, creativity, competence, initiative, innovation and inventiveness. Speaking further, he said, “Considering the essential role higher education plays in transforming and its capacity to sharpen the minds of its citizenry, the effectiveness in transforming the country in all other important dimensions. ” This conference is to provide a platform for a holistic assessment of the country’s education sector.” Prof John declare that this all important conference is coming at a point when Nigeria is at a cross road and must decide if she want to be a leader in 21st century by prioritizing investment in human capital development, at a time when many African countries in Africa such as Ghana , South Africa e.tc have consistently made investment in higher education a priority and have consequently seen the benefits in the form of a robust economy and attendant benefits. “With a growing population of approximately 200 million, it is imperative that a corresponding growth in the number and quality educational institutions be achieved to effectively accommodate inevitable rise in demand for educational opportunities.” He also promise that the Dakota Wesleyan University will bring to bear the sane quality education as seen in other developed clime. Professor John who is a professor of economics emeritus University of Wisconsin listed the key objectives of the conference to examine the state of education in Nigeria with a view to recommending appropriate measures that would help restore functionality in the Nigerian tertiary education system
Forster a collaborative relationship between Dakota Wesleyan University and stakeholders in the Nigerian education system and promote the importance in investment in human capital development among others . The conference will attract a lot of notable personalities and keynote speakers among whom are: Professor Ibrahim Gambari, Dr Amy Novak -president of Dakota Wesleyan University, Dr Ken Nnamani, former president of Nigerian Senate, Dr Kalu Idika Kalu former minister of finance, professor Obaji former minister of education, Major General Jamilu Sarham, Dr Joseph Rioldt provost Dakota Wesleyan University, professor John Ifediora, professor of economics emeritus University of Wisconsin among others.