The Argungun International Fishing Festival is set to kick off, eleven years after it was stopped due to insecurity challenges. Activities lined up for the 60th edition of the festival was unveiled to newsmen recently in Abuja, slated from the 11th to 14th of March in Argungun, the capital of Argungun Emirate. According to the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, the ministry would give the festival global visibility and publicity. He said, “At the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture, we attach great importance to this festival, just like many of our great festivals nationwide, this explains why we are leaving no stone unturned at ensuring maximum publicity for the forthcoming festival. “We are going to Argungun with a battery of journalists to help raise the profile of the festival. We will be using the new and traditional media to put the 2020 Argungun International Fishing and Cultural Festival on the national and international maps. The festival deserves no less.” He added that the festival has been included in the calendar of Nigerian festivals to help tourists easily plan attendance at the various festivals. Similarly, the Kebbi State Government listed grand fishing, Kabanci display, agricultural show, cultural display, catapulting and archery, as additional events for this edition. The Deputy Governor, Samaila Yombe Dabai, who represented Governor Abubakar Bagudu, noted that the others would include traditional boxing and wrestling, motor rally, power bike and bicycle racing, donkey and camel racing, durbar and polo. The safety of participants and guests at the festival, according to him is assured. He said that Kebbi remained one of the most peaceful and safe states in the country. Earlier at the event, the Emir of Argungun, Sama’ila Mera, decorated Minister with the Kakakin Kebbi(Ambassador of Kebbi Culture in Nigeria and beyond), and handed him the traditional sword as a symbol of authority. He explained that Mohammed was honoured for projecting the nation’s diverse people and cultural heritage across the world, his fearless defence of national identity and integrity through the discharge of his official responsibilities, and for creating jobs, income and positive awareness for the youths through festivals, arts and cultural exhibitions. 