The federal government has announced far reaching measures to tackle the consequences of the falling prices of crude oil at the global market. The measures  were announced by the minister of Finance , Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, while briefing State House Correspondents after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa. According to her, the N10.8 trillion 2020 budget has been reduced by N1.5trillion. Also, the oil benchmark of $57 in this year’s budget has been slashed to $30, while there will be no recruitments or replacements by government agencies till further notice except the security sector. The minister said, however, that government is not contemplating downsizing of the her workforce as, according to her, President Muhammadu Buhari has directed that salaries and pensions of workers should be promptly paid despite the current economic down turn. The minister explained: ”What we have done is that we have written every ministry and given them guidelines on how these adjustments will be made to enable us have detailed imputes from the ministries. ”But I can just say that the bulk cut is about N1.5 trillion reductions in the size of the budget. This includes N457 billion from PMS under-recovery. ”It affects the federally funded upstream projects with about 25 percent cut. We work out the exact amount when we get inputs from the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs).” On concerns of the economy slipping back into recession, she acknowledged that the government has concerned, saying: ”This is resulting in about 40 to 45 percent reduction and also it will affect the states because it means the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) will be significantly reduced. ”FAAC is just a pool of funds and we share what is realized, so it will affect the states as well. So we are expecting the states to take similar measures to amend the plans that we have made and bring them down to current realities. ”It is just a question of deferring some nonessential expenditure so that when things turn we might actually go back to our plans.” On plans to reverse the recently increased Value Added Tax (VAT) and excise duty, Mrs Ahmed said that she would not make any commitment on that right now because ”these are provisions in the law in the Finance Act and as you know we will even in the amendment to the MTEF and the budget have to engage with the National Assembly.” On the directive to stop recruitment into government jobs, the minister said: ”What the agencies have been doing is replacement but even that is being suspended. ”When things improve, we will go back to the issue of recruitment, but for now, our wage bill is already very high. ”The President has directed that salaries and pensions must be paid unfailingly, so we are not looking at downsizing in anyway. ”We are to maintain our workforce as it is but we are just stopping the increase in the size of the nominal roll.” On benchmark, she said that the federal government was working on the worse case scenario of $30 per barrel ”and also we are holding to the production numbers of 2.18 million barrels per day.” ”This you will remember is approved by the National Assembly. This is our own analysis and we will start engaging the National Assembly, ” she added. On the implications for deficit, she said, ”what this means is that our deficit will increase. Our current deficit in the 2020 budget is N1.8 trillion. ”With the decline in revenue and even with the adjustment in expenditure the deficit increases. That is why we have to engage the National Assembly to ensure we stay fiscal the fiscal limits as defined in the fiscal responsibility act.” She further explained that the budget deficit might go up by N1.5 trillion but noted that the details of the cuts were not yet out.