To enforce his fundamental human rights, dethroned Emir of Kano, Alhaji Muhammadu Sanusi II, has dragged the federal and Kano State governments before the Federal High Court in Abuja. He asked the court to order his release and declare his banishment and detention in Awe town in Nasarawa State as unlawful. In the suit, which he joined the attorney-general of the federation (AGF), the inspector-general of police (IGP) and the director-general of the Department of State Services (DSS), Sanusi specifically prayed the court to release him from detention and confinement to Awe town. In the suit brought pursuant to section 34, 35, 40, 41 and 46 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended)  and Order 4 Rule 4 of the Federal High Court, the former emir wants the court to restore his right to human dignity, personal liberty, freedom of association and movement in Nigeria apart from Kano State. In the suit with no: FHC/ABJ/ CS/357/2020, filed by his counsel, Prince Lateef Fagbemi (SAN),  Sanusi further prayed the court to declare his “banishment to Nasarawa State as illegal, unlawful, unconstitutional, null and void.” Sanusi was on Monday, March 9, 2020, dethroned as the emir of Kano by the state government. Shortly after his removal, he was banished to Loko village in Nasarawa State from where he was later moved to Awe town. Fagbemi asked for an interim order releasing him “from the detention and or confinement of the respondents and restoring of the applicants rights to human dignity, personal liberty, freedom of association and movement in Nigeria, (apart from Kano State) pending the hearing and determination of the applicant’s originating summons.” Ex-emir Receives Nasarawa Gov, Emir Of Lafia In Awe Meanwhile, Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has visited the deposed emir in Awe, where he is currently barnished. The governor arrived in Awe at 5pm yesterday and was received by Emir of Awe, Alhaji Abubakar Umar. About 20 minutes later, the Emir of Lafia, Sidi Bage, arrived in Awe in the company of officers and traditional chiefs. This is the first major visit from the governor to the deposed emir since he was taken there by security personnel. A source said that the governor’s visit might not be unconnected with a closed-door meeting he held with President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday. There were many visitors from Kano and the locals in front of the house, jostling to be allowed to catch a glimpse of the deposed emir.