The coordinator of African Centre for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL), Dr Chindo Onumah has said Nigeria needs young people who can provide novel ideas that other younger ones can rally round to take over leadership in the country to redefine and reposition it. He said these young leaders should not be above 50 years of age, who have the energy and ability to mobilize other young ones for the positive change the country has been yearning for since 60 years of independence. Onumah stated this on Wednesday in Abuja at the launch of a project titled “sixty years, sixty voices initiative”. He said the aim of this project is to produce a book of 60 essays on Nigeria by young Nigerians, who are the critical change agents to help the country understand and sharpen its focus on those issues that hold the key to our collective survival as a people. Onumah also said these essays will examine Nigeria’s social, economic and political situation adding that it will also explore the options open to us, suggest solutions and how to actualise them. He said “Most Nigerians hold the view that six decades after independence, the country has failed to work for them in a way that is satisfactory. There are also those who argue that the fundamentals of nationhood are flawed, that Nigeria as presently constituted is not workable union, therefore, cannot deliver national security, peace, justice and development. These issues and more are what will be addressed in the proposed book. “The new decade will be defining moment for Nigeria. Sixty years after independence, fifty years after a civil war, and at the beginning of a new decade, it is important that a new generation of citizens is challenged to reposition the country. The future of Nigeria is in the hands of the youths. “The youths are the social forces that would bring change to the country, how they handle it will determine where the country goes. This project challenges them to chart a roadmap that outlines a future that works for the good of the greatest number of compatriot; one that will put the country on the path of growth and development”. He further said these essays will take a critically look at the country’s democratic experiment since independence in 1960, where the country is today and some of the major issues that have dogged the country’s march to genuine democracy and nationhood. “Contributors will be young Nigerians spread across the 36 states and the FCT; post-civil war Nigerians that are not more than 50 years old with progressive ideas about building a united and egalitarian society. These active citizens are the ones who will inspire and rekindle hope and bring the country out of its current depressing situation” he added. 