Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has described the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, as a visionary, transformative leader and patriot. In a statement  he personally signed , the vice president said that Tinubu’s exceptional political career and service had inspired millions. According to him, only a few leaders have developed as many leaders from the ranks of their protégés as Tinubu had done. Osinbajo said: “Your incredibly large and generous heart, political astuteness and uncommon intellect have become the stuff of legend. “Today, but for COVID-19, we would, as we have done in the past twelve years, celebrated this day with the ‘Bola Tinubu Colloquium,’ where we do what is your greatest passion, proffering answers to developmental questions. We will by God’s grace still do this and many more. “I pray for you sir, that as your days, so shall your strength, wisdom and favour be with God, in Jesus name.Happy Birthday, Asiwaju! Meanwhile, governors under the All Progressives Congress (APC) have described the former Lagos state governor, Ahmed Bola Tinubu as a unifying factor and rallying point. This is as they also acknowledged Tinubu’s contributions to the forum through what they described as his “insightful and resolute inputs to the processes of managing governance in Nigeria as well as within our great Party, the APC.” According to a statement signed by their chairman and governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu to celebrate Tinubu’s 68th birthday, the APC governors commended the party’s national leader’s commitment to a united and prosperous Nigeria. “The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) joins all Nigerians, to celebrate the birthday of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress on his 68th birthday. We celebrate this special occasion with Your Excellency and your entire family. “We in particular wish to acknowledge and commend your leadership and commitment to a united prosperous Nigeria. We acknowledge your contributions to our team of Progressive Governors through your insightful and resolute inputs to the processes of managing governance in Nigeria as well as within our great Party, the APC.  “As our national leader, you certainly represent our unifying and rallying point for all.” While rejoicing with Tinubu, the forum also advised Nigerians to stay at home “and stay safe until we continue to work together towards overcoming the current COVID-19 global pandemic,” he said.  