A non-governmental organisation (NGO), Patriots For the Advancement Of Peace and Social Development, has urged the Supreme Court to increase the punitive costs awarded against counsel to applicants following their refusal to withdraw the Imo and Zamfara applications for review. It also charged the Justices of the apex court to remain steadfast and undaunted in the dispensation of justice no matter whose ox is gored. The group, while decrying the unwarranted attacks and assault by politicians over some judgements of the Supreme Court, commended the Justices for their courage in the discharge of their duties with the barrage of cases coming up for review before the court noting that the decision of the court remains final. The group in a statement signed by its executive director, Alhaji Sani Shinkafi, hailed the apex court for its judgement on Bayelsa and urged it to uphold it’s verdicts on Imo and Zamfara states. It stressed that if the apex court rules otherwise, it would open a floodgate of litigation on appeals that have already been settled by the Court. Shinkafi said “We urge Your Lordships to remain steadfast, stoic and undaunted as the apex and policy Court of the nation. The orchestrated attempt by politicians to review Your Lordships’ decision in Zamfara, Imo and Bayelsa is a knee-jerk reaction propelled by desperation and tomfoolery”. “It is quite sad and unfortunate that this is the 2nd attempt to review the Zamfara decision. We understand that on July 22, 2019, Your Lordships struck out the Application for Review filed by APC and its candidates in Zamfara. Why will a 3rd Application for Review be filed again over the Zamfara decision? “Why will Your Lordships permit litigants to have a 2nd and 3rd bite at the proverbial cheery? Has the age long principle that there must be an end to litigation no longer in force? The Latin maxim is famous: Interest Reipublicae ut sit finis litium – There must, in the public interest, be an end to litigation. “We urge Your Lordships to remain resolute as a policy Court in seeing that there is indeed an end to litigation. If all litigants who lost out before Your Lordships are to be permitted to re-litigate their appeals, under the euphemism of Application For Review, then convicts whose death penalties and terms of imprisonments have been affirmed by Your Lordship should take the front seat. The verdicts against them are matters of life and death” he added.       