The recent revelation that Nigeria lost about 17 per cent of its four year budget to crude oil theft by the New Nigeria Foundation (NNF), further lay credence to data by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), that crude theft is bleeding the economy to coma. CHIKA IZUORA reports Late last year, the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), revealed that Nigeria lost about $42 billion to crude theft as well as domestic and refined petroleum products losses between 2009 and 2018. According to latest edition of its Policy Brief titled “Stemming the Increasing Cost of Oil Theft to Nigeria” published around November in Abuja, NEITI said the nation lost crude oil and refined product valued at about $41.9 billion and were stolen from Nigeria during the period. The brief contains graphic information and data on the cost of oil theft to the country as well as other far-reaching recommendations in the areas of security overhaul, country engagements, diplomatic approach, enforcement, etc. The report gave the breakdown of the losses to include about $38.5 billion on crude theft alone, $1.6 billion on domestic crude and another $1.8 billion on refined petroleum products. NEITI further blamed the losses on the government not embracing oil fingerprinting technology, absence of comprehensive metering infrastructure of all oil facilities, and other creative strategies to combat the growing menace of theft of Nigeria’s crude oil and refined petroleum products. The transparency agency said in the face of current dwindling revenues, paying priority attention to oil theft in the country’s oil and gas industry has become necessary to expand revenue generation. In addition, the report said Nigeria loses an average of $11 million daily, $349 million in a month and about $4.2 billion annually to crude and product losses arising from stealing, process lapses and pipeline vandalism. “While figures from government put the loss at between 150,000-250,000 barrels per day (bpd), data from private studies give an estimate of between 200,000 and 400,000 bpd. Again, last week, an advocacy group in the oil and gas industry, the New Nigeria Foundation (NNF) lamented that Nigeria lost about 17 per cent of the country’s four year budget to crude oil theft. The group equally disclosed that Nigeria lost about N15 trillion to crude oil theft in four years specifically from 2015 to 2018. The NNF in the latest edition of its Factsheet, “Unboxing Crude Oil Theft In Nigeria,” indicated that in the last four years, Nigeria has lost approximately 43 per cent of recorded revenue to oil theft, which amounts to 17 per cent of the country’s budget for the same period. According to NNF, the amount lost could have bridged 28.7 per cent of Nigeria’s budget deficit during the period under review, adding that Nigeria is ranked the worst country in the world in terms of crude oil theft. Speaking at a Dissemination Workshop in Lagos, NFF senior programme manager, Chikodi Chiedo, said that crude oil theft is a multi-billion dollar enterprise with a lot of players at various levels involved. She explained that the money lost within the four years could have offset some percentage of the country’s budget deficit, adding that crude oil theft is a national issue that requires collective action from all. Corroborating these losses, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), on its part disclosed that about N230 billion was lost to oil theft and vandalism in 2019. Mallam Mele Kyari, managing director of the corporation, lamented over the alarming rise in the number of vandals, thieves, and pirates. He made the revelation while speaking to members of the Executive Intelligence Management Course 13 of the National Institute for Security Studies (NISS) who visited the NNPC Towers in Abuja. Kyari spoke on the topic “Piracy in the Gulf of Guinea; Issues, Challenges for International Trade, National Security and Sustainable Development of Member States.” He stated that oil vandalism is a big challenge, adding that it posed a threat to Nigeria as a nation. He, however, mentioned, “Even by 2050, fossil fuel would account for 80 per cent of the energy mix, and there would still be consumption of at least, 100 million barrels of oil per day. We are determined to remain relevant in the long term.” NNPC chief operating officer, Downstream, Engr Yemi Adetunji, allayed fears, saying that an “Operation Kumbe” was being created to tackle insecurity which included kidnapping that occurred a lot in 2016. He added that the operation was being worked upon with security agencies and that Nigerian Navy was also working on it at the atlas cove. Indeed, the NNPC Monthly Financial and Operations Report (MFOR), said the corporation suffered 94 per cent increase in the cases of willful hacking and destruction of its pipeline infrastructure across the country in November last year, fingering oil thieves as culprits. Details of the report contained in the recently released NNPC MFOR for November 2019 showed that 68 pipeline points were vandalized, representing about 94 per cent increase from the 35 points that were breached in October 2019. The report stated that out of the vandalized points, 15 failed to be welded while only two pipeline points were ruptured. A breakdown of the breach indicated that the Mosimi-Ibadan axis accounted for 31 per cent of the breaks, Atlas Cove-Mosimi network witnessed 19 per cent, while Ibadan-Ilorin and other routes accounted for 15 per cent and 35 per cent respectively. The MFOR noted that NNPC, in collaboration with the local communities and other stakeholders, would continuously strive to reduce and eventually eliminate this menace through effective collaboration. In the presentation by NNF, 77 per cent of the 2018 national budget was derived from oil revenue an implication that revenue from oil determines funding from development projects, and annual loss to crude oil theft is estimated at N995 billion citing report from the Nigerian Natural Resource Charter, 2018. It was startling revelation citing data from the Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, where it said that Nigeria lost 17,460, 113 barrels of oil in 2018 to theft and sabotage and that 25 per cent of stolen crude is sold locally to artisanal refiners who cook the crude to produce two per cent of petrol, 41 per cent of diesel, while remaining 55 per cent is dumped into the nearby water or shallow pits resulting in environmental and health hazards. According to the NFF, the impact of crude oil theft is enormous translating to severe revenue shortages for the federal government and environmental degradation; loss of livelihood; health challenges; loss of lives through explosions at illegal refinery sites; school drop out to join the lucrative oil theft enterprise; proliferation of arms and violence among others. The Foundation, informed government that oil theft is a very lucrative and multi-million dollar enterprise with a value chain that includes; criminalities; institutions; security personnel; communities and as a result it doesn’t respond to one line of solution. It said that oil theft inhibits access to basic infrastructure, the combined capital expenditure of N831.5 billion on health, education, transport infrastructure, power, works and housing in 2017, is 15 per cent lower than the estimated average yearly loss to crude theft. In proferring solutions, the NFF suggested a multifaceted and integrated institutional mandate, regulatory capacity, improvement of artisanal refinery technology, community participation, joint framing by states among others. The NNF suggested for collaboration among government agencies to prevent crude oil theft as many Ministries, Departments and Agencies, (MDAs) work in silos, adoption of technology for surveillance of oil facilities and identification of stolen crude. It rejected and said it is inappropriate for disposal of confiscated petroleum products by the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps as it compounds the environmental impact associated with crude oil theft and it is important to provide alternative means of livelihoods to those who are involved in crude oil theft. By its calculation, one single approach cannot solve the problem of oil theft and solutions will have to cut across the value chain because of the multiple-players involved. The NFF forum said that there may be a need to conduct research and technical evaluation of the composition of the products from artisanal refineries in order to determine what needs to be done to convert them to useful products while the development of modular refineries and other technologies could help in meeting local market demands, eliminating illegal processing of crude oil and the attendant environmental damage. The forum said adoption of Modern Technology for Surveillance and Protection of Pipelines is germane as the failure of the government to put an end to crude oil theft is an attestation to the need for a different approach. Some countries that have successfully addressed similar challenges have adopted technology like e.g. drones, CCTV, and oil finger printing for monitoring and protecting pipelines. Therefore, the relevant government agencies should look into what would work in the Nigerian context. 