Possible legal impediments to the holding of the forthcoming All Progressives Congress (APC) emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting may have been cleared yesterday as a High Court of Justice of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) endorsed it. The meeting is slated for Tuesday, March 17, 2020 in Abuja. Ruling on an ex-parte motion, Justice S.U. Bature granted an order restraining some national leaders of the party from disrupting the NEC meeting. An APC chieftain, Comrade Mustapha Salihu, had in a motion ex-parte, dragged Lanre Issa-Onilu, Babatunde Ogala, Waziri Bulama and the party before the court, praying that they be stopped from disrupting the meeting.. The plaintiff also sought the order of the court praying it to compel the defendants to give effect to the resolution of the meeting. The defendants are expected to act according to the order of the court pending the hearing and determination of the substantive matter. The case has been fixed for March 20, 2020 for hearing. Meanwhile, APC leaders from the South-South zone may still be the ones to pick a caretaker chairman should Tuesday’s NEC meeting fail to agree on the continued stay of the party national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, in office. LEADERSHIp learnt that the region had begun shopping for possible a candidate with requisite background and political clout to pilot the party affairs in an interim basis, and also prepare the APC for its convention. Already, names like Senator Ndoma Egba, Senator Godswill Akpabio have already begun to receive the nod of some stakeholders who are expected to present the motion at the NEC meeting. However, the issue is already causing panic in the various power blocs in the region as the APC vice chairman for South South, Hilliard Eta, has distanced some leaders of the party in the zone from a consultative meeting called by Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, saying he has no powers to do so. Obaseki had sent letters of invitation to leaders of the party in the zone, to attend a consultative meeting today (Thursday), obviously to discuss the issue of replacing Oshiomhole. He said:”: “I have also communicated to our political leader in the zone, the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and he is not aware of any such meeting. So, we are calling on all our leaders not to attend any such meeting because it is ill conceived and ill motivated. At this point in time we are focusing on how to strengthen our great party under the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and not to destabilise it.”