The Ondo State governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has charged corps members to wage unrelenting war against whatever they perceived as not going the right way in the country. Akeredolu made the charge during the official opening/Swearing in ceremony for the 2020 Batch ‘A’ (Stream 1) corps members deployed to the State. Speaking at the NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp, Ikare-Akoko, Arakunrin Akeredolu gave credit to retired General Yakubu Gowon led administration for thinking of the best way to restore the unity of the country and rekindled the hope of a better society through the establishment of the NYSC Scheme. The governor said, “In the world over, all responsible and responsive governments are investing in their youths so that they can in turn drive the process of both political and economic development and growth. Majority of us who had participated in the scheme from when it was established till date found out that onerous task of nation building is a collective responsibility of all positive minded citizens. “I want to charge you to have a positive outlook to issues affecting us as a nation and strive to contribute meaningfully at every sector you will be deployed to, and endeavour to leave a lasting legacy which will encourage the populace to call for the sustenance of the laudable Scheme. Akeredolu further informed the new entrants into the scheme that the heights attained by our heroes past were not achieved on a platter of gold but through self- denial, sweat, and blood while some people paid supreme sacrifice just to keep Nigeria as one. According to him, “The biographies of leaders of this great country are full of challenges and their path to greatness strewn with thorns. Without thorns, it would be impossible to wear the crown and if you must be seen as champions or conquerors, then the essence of NYSC will be meaningful to you”. The Governor who was represented by Permanent Secretary, Cabinet and Protocol, Dr. Gbenga Elewuju, said the present administration will continue to provide affordable healthcare to everyone irrespective of status, ethnic or religious affiliation in the face of Lassa fever and Coronavirus threatening our society. He advised that appropriate steps should be taken by the corps members to safeguard their precious lives. In her address, the State Coordinator, Mrs. Grace Akpabio allayed the fears of parents and guardians over the outbreak of Lassa fever and Coronavirus, saying that the management is on top of the situation. “I wish to announce that following the outbreak of Lassa fever and Coronavirus, the National Youth Service Corps Scheme’, as a protective measure embarked on far reaching actions in order to guard against the contraction of the deadly virus by corps members”. The State Coordinator announced that the Scheme has been in constant touch with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Federal Ministry of Health and tertiary medical institutions within the state which according to her ‘have been playing supportive roles by lending technical support to the Scheme’. “It is gratifying to note that infrared thermometers, hand sanitisers, face mask, wash hand basins as well as soaps have been provided in all the 37 NYSC Secretariats and at strategic locations at orientation camps of the Scheme nationwide”. Mrs. Akpabio announced that sensitisation leaflets on Lassa fever and Coronavirus have been shared to all the 2020 Batch ‘A’ (Stream 1) corps members currently undergoing orientation course. This according to her is ‘to arm them with requisite information on the viruses and how to adequately prevent infection and stay protected’. 