Group under the auspices of Concerned Citizens of Kebbi State (CCK) has called for the outright cancellation of the Argungu festival and the Yauri Boat regatta over the continued spread of the Corona virus. This is just the group also called on the State Governor, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu to Resign from office due to his glaring failure as well the ongoing issues around Abacha loot. The coordinator of the group, Alhaji Murtala Adamu made the call also called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate the Kebbi state governor for his inability to show anything for the huge amount of allocation accruing to the state. ” We also want to call on EFCC to investigate the Kebbi State Government under Senator Atiku Bagudu for receiving over 450 Billion Naira in the last five years with nothing to show for the huge amount received. “Similarly, there is complete lack of infrastructures befitting the State capital. It is only the State capital without standard roads network, no standard drainages and other public facilities befitting a State Capital. The only market in Birnin Kebbi destroyed by fire incident 4 years ago is still waiting for completion repairs by the Government.
“A lot of people are facing serious economic hardship in the State, Atiku Bagudu earmarked over N630 million of Naira to host Yauri Boat Regatta and Argungu International Fishing festival without being sensitive to the economic situation of the State and the national concern of the issues of corona virus in some parts of the country even as the national Assembly has closed down for the same sake” he said. The Coordinator of the group also disclosed that millions of naira voted for the festival would have go a long way in providing infrastructures for the people of the State. “For the past five years, the leadership of Senator Atiku Bagudu only succeeded in creating street beggars and destitute in the Society by his deliberate policy and non inclusiveness of people in the scheme of things” “We therefore wish to call for the outright cancellation of the Argungu International Fishing festival to avoid further spread of Lassa fever and corona virus currently in the country. “Just few days after spending huge amount on rigata, fire outbreak damaged several shops and houses in Yauri and Kamba resulted in loosing hundreds of millions worth of properties as a result of non availability of fire fighting vehicles in the State. The amount earmarked for the two festivals can procure more that 50 standard fire fighting vehicles for the State capital and all the 21 local government areas of the State”.