Former Vice President Namadi Sambo has confirmed his attendance to the LEADERSHIP Annual Conference and Awards Ceremony billed to hold on Thursday at the International Conference Centre (ICC) Abuja. The former vice president is chairman of this year’s conference and awards with the theme, “The Economics of Border Closure”. The managing director of Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), Uche Orji, who will deliver the keynote address, has also confirmed his attendance to the conference and awards ceremony, as well as the minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Alhaji Muhammad Musa Bello, who is the chief host of the occasion. Also confirming their attendance to the event are the governor of Yobe State, Mai-Mala Buni; minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume; Etsu Nupe and chairman, Niger State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar; the Emir of Potiskum, Alhaji Umaru Bubaram Ibn and the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi. The conference is an annual event organised by LEADERSHIP Group Limited to celebrate those considered by the organisation as having distinguished themselves in the public and private sectors in the previous year. Confirming that all is set for the event to take place on Thursday March 19, managing director of LEADERSHIP Newspapers, Muazu Elazeh, in a statement, said it is expected that the eminent personalities will add their perspectives on the theme of this year’s edition of conference and awards ceremony. Elazeh noted that the theme of this year’s conference was apt as it would provide participants, especially economic experts, the opportunity to exchange ideas on the gains and impact of the closure of Nigerian land borders on the nation’s economy. In December 2019, LEADERSHIP had, in line with its annual tradition of celebrating individuals and organisations that have distinguished themselves in their various fields of endeavours and made outstanding contributions to Nigeria and the world in the course of the year, picked the nominees for its 2019 awards. Two eminent Nigerians were jointly nominated for the award of LEADERSHIP Persons of the Year 2019. They are business mogul, Chief Femi Otedola and The Registrar/Chief Executive of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board, Prof Ishaq Olarewaju Oloyede. Clarifying on the criteria employed by the newspaper’s Board of Editors in arriving at the choice of the duo, Elazeh said that Otedola jointly won the LEADERSHIP Person of the Year 2019 award for setting a new mark in philanthropy at a time the sale of large portions of his assets would have made him an unlikely candidate for public generosity. Specifically, he described as unprecedented Otedola’s donation of N5 billion in support of Save the Children, a 100-year-old UK-based charity organization, for the rehabilitation of displaced and underprivileged children who are victims of insurgency in the North Eastern part of Nigeria. The MD said that Ishaq Olarewaju Oloyede jointly won the LEADERSHIP Person of the Year 2019 award for setting a clear agenda for change and infusing a new culture of accountability to a vital public institution, even when his family feared that sending him there after the serial battles he fought with JAMB as vice chancellor of a university was like dispatching him to the lion’s den. In the other categories of the LEADERSHIP Annual Awards, the quartet of Muhammad Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State, Ben Ayade of Cross River State, Bello Mohammed Matawalle of Zamfara State and Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa emerged joint LEADERSHIP Governors of the Year 2019. Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Silva, clinched the award for Politician of the Year 2019, while the award for Banker of the Year was won by president of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr Akinwumi Adesina. Access Bank PLC won Bank of the Year award, while Government Agency of the Year went to the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP). The Public Service Person of the Year award went to executive secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), Prof Elias Suleiman Bogoro, while the CEO of Aiteo Group, Benedict Peters, clinched the Business Person of the Year award. Former Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr Maikanti Kachalla Baru, won the CEO of the Year award. Other award categories are: Product of the Year, Tiamin Rice; ICT Company of the Year, MainOne; E-Commerce Company of the Year, OPay; Telecom Company of the Year, Huawei Technologies Company Limited, and Brand of the Year, Airtel. The Outstanding Young Person of the Year 2019 award went to Leah Sharibu; Burna Boy clinched the LEADERSHIP Artiste of the Year award, even as the LEADERSHIP Sports Persons of the Year award went to the female basketball team, D’Tigress.