The managing director, National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Dr George Moghalu, in this interview with YUSUF BABALOLA explained how he will turn the authority around, make Onitsha, Baro River Ports functional, among others What should Nigerians expect from you as MD of NIWA? Already, I have set a target for myself and that target is to make water transportation a veritable means of transport for both cargo and humans and we are determined to do that and all of our efforts are geared towards cleaning up our waterways to the best of our ability, developing new jetties, repairing old ones and rebuilding our shorelines like we are doing here at our NIWA jetty. We are also creating awareness. We are concerned about the level of accidents on our waterways and it shouldn’t happen. We have identified from statistics and information available to us that most of these accidents happened at night or very early hours of the morning and the principal reason from my own assessment is that either the boats are not fixed with navigational aids or they are rickety, the boat drivers are not qualified, permitted to operate or there were no life jackets. These are some of the reasons why such things happen and that is why we set out to bring some of the information to the people on why it is very important to operates very safe boats and we have given directive to area managers that we don’t want to see any rickety boat on our water ways, no boat should operate in our water ways if not licensed or permitted to operate and if they see such, they should impound them. We have also said no unlicensed boat driver will drive any boat on our waterway. We will stop them. We are also building a data base where we will have records of all professionally qualified boat drivers and we are going to circulate it across our operational bases, so that Mr ‘A’ in operational base  ‘A’ in any office in Calabar and the man in the area office in Lagos will know who is qualified and who is not qualified to operate on our waterways and we can easily stop the person.  But, why does NIWA allow rickety boats to wreak havoc on the waters? We have said that any vessel that does not have navigational aids will not operate either at night or in the morning on our waterway, we will resist and stop it. Also, no overloaded vessels would be allowed to ply our waterways and these are some of the steps we have taken. About three weeks ago, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a company that is going to supply life jackets. We want to make life jackets available at all waterfronts so that nobody will give us excuse that because there were no life jackets, that was the reason why they entered the boat without being properly kitted. We will not accept that as an excuse and because we want to resist it that is why we have gone this step further. On the issue of boat operators and drivers, we have a training facility both in Lagos and in Warri where we train people so that they won’t give us reasons that they want to ride boat but they are not trained. Now, we have the facility where they can be trained and officially licenced before they can take any boat to ride. So, we are doing quite a lot of things within our capability. We also want a situation where people like you who transverse this country, who have network can generate ideas, suggest to us what you think we should do and that is why when we started our tours. I insisted we need to engage the stakeholders because they are the reasons why we are here, they are the ones who operate on the waterways.  Why is the multi-billion naira River Ports not being utilised? I am as concerned as yourself about the status of the river ports and if there is anything I want to see as my achievements before I leave office, it is that Onitsha River Port and Baro River Port that has been completed are fully functional. That was why my first official visit after my appointment was by water. I went to Baro from Lokoja because I wanted to see things for myself and that was my first official visit immediately I assumed office in Lokoja. The next morning, I scheduled a visit to Baro by water and we saw that the port has been completed. Onitsha River Port is completed while Oguta River Port is about 60 to 61 percent completed but abandoned because in the past 10 years, it has not being on the budget and we have engaged the Imo State government and some critical stakeholders where we can get money to get the port completed. For me, if the federal government has invested 60 per cent running into billions on that project leaving it uncompleted we should not allow the money invested to waste. So, completing it for me is also a priority. Same applies to the port in Lokoja. The Lokoja port is about 57 per cent completed and that one has being in the current budget now. When I came in, the concessioning process of Onitsha River Port had started, and my first outing at the national assembly was to go and defend a petition against the process of the privatisation on something I don’t know and so, I needed to study what really happened. Right now, the concessioning process is on. I would have travelled to Belgium with my team to the Port of Antwerp for due diligence because they have come here about a month and half ago with their team to the Onitsha River port and did all the assessment, consequent upon which they invited us but this coronavirus issue will put on hold this movement. Once the issue of Coronavirus is resolved, we will continue with the process.  When will Baro Port be concessioned? On Baro, nothing has started yet in the line of concession but it has two challenges that we have identified, one of which is the access road. Access road to Baro is a nightmare. If I bring cargo now to offload in Baro through which road am I going to take it out? But, we have opened discussion with Niger State government since we are not traveling abroad again for now. By next week, I would be going to Minna and this is basically the reason I am going there. We have also engaged the Federal Ministry of Works and the issue of Baro road is in the budget as we speak and ones we have been able to resolve that I can assure interested investors will come. Investors may not be attracted to it now because of access road though the port is world class. But when properly completed and inaugurated by Mr. President, private sector participants would come in to invest. I am committed to doing it. I am determined to do it and fortunately, I have the support of my management team and everybody shares this my emotion and sentiment that we need to get these two ports functioning while every effort is made to look for money and in this times, money is not easy to get as it used to be in the past. So, we are all racking our heads looking inward how we can get money so that we can complete the Oguta River Port and Jamata Port.  How much is needed to complete the ports? I will not be able to give you that now because the contract that was awarded 10 to 15 years ago with a figure and has seen 62 per cent work done, you can’t calculate the percentage of work remaining to be done based on that contract value. It requires a fresh assessment because I am sure the contract will certainly ask for validation.  What is NIWA doing on clearance of water hyacinth on inland waterways? It is important for you to know that water hyacinth is not a permanent thing, it grows every time. One can remove water hyacinth in January and by June the same quantity you removed will be back there, I can place a bet on it. In Nigerian waterways today, we are talking about over 10,000 kilometres of inland waterways and the truth remains you have to be clearing waterways on a regular basis. Water hyacinth is different from removing wrecks because you can remove wreck ‘A’ at a point here and you won’t remove any more in the next 10 years because there is no guarantee that a vessel will sink at that spot. You can clear a channel of wreck and you won’t have wreck there again but nobody can boldly tell you that they are going to clear water hyacinth on a stretch and the water hyacinth will not grow there again. I give you six months. That is why for example in the area of dredging we do what we called maintenance dredging. 