There seems to be no end in sight to the leadership crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress in Kwara State. This comes as the party chairman’s convoy was recently attacked at Shao town, by thugs suspected to be loyal to a factional group in the state. ABDULLAHI OLESIN reports. The leadership crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Kwara State has continued to fester with the recent attacks on the convoy of the party’s state chairman, Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa at Shao in Moro local government area of the state. Though, no arrest had been made over the attack of Bolarinwa and his team, there are speculations that some aggrieved members of the APC in the area masterminded the attacks. Bolarinwa and his team were attacked at Shao, penultimate Tuesday during a thank-you tour of the local government areas, to thank members of the party for their support during the 2019 general elections. During the attack, the party bus that conveyed the party chiefs was smashed by the suspected thugs. It was gathered that the latest development might not be unconnected with the internal crisis that had rocked the party, shortly after the party’s electoral victory during last year’s general elections. Confirming the development, the state vice chairman of the APC, Sunday Oyebiyi, described the attack as unfortunate, saying it could lead to disintegration of the party in the state. He said that police permit was sought and got on the planned tour of the 16 local government areas of the state, particularly when some members of the party loyal to the governor stood against it. Oyebiyi, who is also zonal chairman, (Kwara North) of the party said that members of the party are eagerly waiting for the outcome of intervention being done by elders of the party into the crisis. He called on members of the party to remain calm and embrace peace and love in their dealings. Reacting to the development, the state governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq condemned the attack on Bolarinwa and his entourage to Shao, calling on the police command to fish out all the perpetrators and prosecute them. Abdulrazaq, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, described the attack as disturbing. The statement added: “We condemn in strongest terms possible the alleged attack on the state chairman of the APC, Hon. Bashiru Omolaja Bolarinwa allegedly by some hoodlums in Moro local government. “This is very disturbing. The Governor is very proud of the peaceful atmosphere in the state and seriously frowns at any action that might heat up the polity under whatever guise. “He calls on the security agencies to not just fish out those behind the attack but to also make sure they face the full weight of the law. For the record, the state faces many developmental issues and the governor has no time for anything that does not add value to the lives of the people he’s been elected to govern”. Though, the leadership crisis rocking the APC in the state had reared its ugly head almost immediately after the inauguration of Governor Abdulrazaq in May 2019, the governor, nevertheless at a media parley on his 100 days in office denied that there was any crisis within the party. But, the truth is that the party has been divided along two factions- the faction of Governor Abdulrazaq’s loyalists who have formed a group known as Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq Support Group (AASG), and the faction that recognises the minister of Information, Alh Lai Mohammed as the leader of the party in Kwara State. The headship of the party in the state is at the centre of the intra-party crisis. While a faction believes that Lai Mohammed, given his contribution to the development of APC in the state, and his role in the defeat of the Saraki dynasty in the last general elections, should be accorded the honour of being the party’s leader, the AASG sticks to the constitution of the APC which recognises the sitting governor as the leader of the party in the state. The crisis got messier during the week, as some aggrieved members of the state executive council of the APC, accused the state chairman of the party, Alh Bashir Bolarinwa of running the party like a personal business. Led by the party’s deputy chairman, Alh Abdullahi Samari the state secretary, Alh Mustapha Ishowo and the state publicity secretary, Folaranmi Aro, the aggrieved party executives numbering 20 also alleged non documentation of the party’s financial transactions. The APC executive members  however,condemned the alleged attack on the convoy of the chairman  in Shao, Moro local government area of the state and enjoined the security agencies to do the needful in bringing the perpetrators to book. They admitted that members and leaders in Moro are thoroughly aggrieved that the party chairman and his men continue to hold on to the party’s register in manners that violate ethics of transparency and democracy. In a swift reaction, members of a political group within the party loyal to party’s chairman and the minister of Information, under the aegis of the Kwara APC Integrity Vanguards (KAIV), described the allegations levelled against their patrons as illogical which were drawn from speculations against the party chairman and the minister with sinister motives to heat up party politics in the state. The statement signed by its national coordinator and publicity secretary, Abdullahi Yinka Onimasa and Kayode Aliyu Bamidele, respectively, said the aggrieved party leaders were acting divisive script of their sponsor, “targetting our state chairman, Hon. Bashir Bolarinwa, the minister for Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and other notable leaders of our party who have invested their times, energies and resources, but have today become targets of their daily verbal missiles. This is a clear case of an ingrate king who goes for the jugular of those who made him. “First, we want everyone to know that this is not the first time these desperate stomach infrastructure and appointment seekers who now described themselves as aggrieved persons will be throwing illogical allegations drawn from their speculations against the party chairman with a sinister motive to heat up party politics, stir up the chairman’s emotions so as to give their power obsessed sponsor avenue to dismantle the validly constituted party structures and replace with their co-desperate stomach infrastructure, appointment seeking parasites “Bashir Bolarinwa, an experienced party man and an advocate of party disciplines and supremacy understands all their evil plots and will never be distracted by sponsored attacks of few frustrated elements acting scripts of their sponsor within the party”. The group insisted that Bolarinwa did not mismanage the party’s funds which came in form of donations, asking, “How else will Bolarinwa be expected to be transparent when the party operating guidelines requires not less than three (3) party officials including the Secretary who’s part of these aggrieved excos to sign chequebooks? “Why will a Party Secretary, Salman Ishowo who is a key signatory to party’s financial records and chequebooks, claim ignorance of how donations from aspirants were expended? “In addition to being a key signatory to all party’s accounts, Salman Ishowo, one of these people is also the only receiver of the account transaction alert from banks on behalf of the party. “Where then is sincerity in their agitations when they turned their backs to deny party’s decision which they were not only part of but also benefited from? “The state chairman, Bolarinwa who is found to have been rejecting valuable gifts and gratification from aspirants, cannot be alleged of misappropriating party fund which has a record? “It’s also on good record that the party conducted primaries which was fully sponsored by the state, as it was open and verifiable that no kobo came from the national headquarters for that purpose. Special thanks for the efforts and the pro activenesss of the state leadership (Alhaji Lai Mohammed and the State Chairman Bolarinwa) that our primaries did not end up the way of Zamfara State. “It is safe to conclude that the chairman has not been the one frustrating the party’s audit process, but the incompetency and insincerity of the Auditor, pursuit of needless vendetta are responsible for his failure. “It is also important to state that all the records of the party’s financial transactions are correct, up to date and intact. So, let’s abide by the party constitution. “ At a counter press conference, members of the state executives of APC loyal to Bolarinwa, noted that there is a disconnect between the present APC administration in the state and the party and between the administration and elders of the party in the state. The APC vice chairman, Kwara North, Chief Sunday Oyebiyi, who briefed the newsmen on behalf of Bolarinwa said that “there is only one body of state executive members and Hon. Bashir Bolarinwa remains it’s undisputed chairman. “Severally, party elders had tried to wade into the matter by meeting with the state APC chairman, Minister for Information and Culture and the leader of the party. However, a follow up meeting with the governor to resolve the areas of differences has not been possible because the governor has refused to grant audience to the elders. “Suffice to say that while we blame the aggrieved executive members for taking the party for granted, it is, however, a case of the biblical ‘hand of Esau and the voice of Jacob’. “It is a well known fact that all hands were on deck during the election under the aegis of one APC, it was after victory had been won that splinter groups with a recurring AA acronym began to spring up. “The promoters of these groups have acted in ways inimical to the constitution of the party. Their activities presuppose a parallel structure to the party structure and they bandied the name of the governor as giving approval to their activities. “Not once has the governor or his representative come out to denounce them. The publicity secretary of APC has revealed that much in his radio programmes.” 