The Defence Headquarters has explained reasons behind the establishment of Directorate of Defence Media Operations despite the existence of the Directorate of Defence Information. Speaking during the maiden briefing of the new Directorate Coordinated by Major General John Enenche, the Director Defence Information Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu said the move was necessitated by the unharmornise and uncoordinated delivery of information about military operations across the country. He said his department will still be managing the image of the Armed Forces of Nigeria but not speak on operational activities. “the need for the establishment of the Directorate of Defence Media Operations came as a result of unharmonised and uncoordinated delivery of information from various theatres of operation. “The CDS thought of the need to harmonise the dissemination of information, so alongside the Directorate of Media Operations,The Directorate of Defence Information will still be operating but not speaking on military operations, ” he said The Coordinator Directorate of Defence Media Operations Maj Gen John Enenche said the outfit is the latest strategic initiative of the Chief of Defence Staff General Gabriel Olonisakin, to garner the support of the media to defeat criminal elements in the media space. “In this regard, our channel of communicating the operational activities of the Nigerian Military to the general public has been streamlined to one source which is henceforth the Directorate of Defence Media Operations. “This implies that, the Directorate is now the clearing house for all information relating to the operational activities of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, which will provide authentic information on all issues bothering on military operations” he said Major General Enenche added that the Directorate of Defence Media Operations is to disseminate information on multi agency operations of which the Nigerian Military is the lead agency. “In clear terms, the Directorate of Defence Media Operations is responsible for press briefings, releases and other press activities on all Military and Armed Forces of Nigeria led multi agency operations, for internal and international engagements. “The purpose of this establishment is to ensure that the Armed Forces of Nigeria communicate its operational activities through one channel to the general public. It is visioned to achieve “INFORMATION DELIVERY FOR POSITIVE EFFECT”, at strategic, operational, tactical and other levels of our target audience” he said While requesting for media support to enable the outfit succeed, he restated that the Nigerian Military will continue to review and restrategize so as to tackle the security challenges in the Country, in order to ensure adequate security of lives and property. In his presentation the Director Defence Media Operations Brig Gen Benard Ejike Onyeuko reaffirmed that the Directorate is created out of the need to interface with the media and the general public on all Armed Forces of Nigeria military operations both internal and external. “It will collate and disseminate timely and credible information to you in order to create a balanced understanding of our operations and also our objectives. The Directorate would also be responsible for information management in all multi-agency operations involving the military,” He said as the Armed Forces of Nigeria is resolutely committed to resolving the current security challenges across the Country, it is imperative for them to keep the citizens abreast with the activities of its various operations. The Director noted that the current security challenges in the Country range from activities of insurgents in the North East; cattle rustling, banditry and kidnapping in the North West; farmers/herders conflict in the North Central, adding that the South generally is characterized by militancy, oil theft, and cultism. “Currently, we have a total of 9 ongoing Armed Forces of Nigeria operations in different parts of the country, besides the Multinational Joint Task Force Operation, with its headquarters at NDjamena, Republic of Chad. “The operations are Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Operation DELTA SAFE, Operation SAFE HAVEN, Operation AWATSE, Operation SAFE CORRIDOR and Operation WHIRL STROKE,Operation WHIRL PUNCH, Operation THUNDER STRIKE and Operation HADARIN DAJI” he listed.