Youths in their large numbers on Thursday took to the streets of Lagos to protest against the western Nigeria Security network codenamed Operation Amotekun already passed into laws in some states in the region, thereby paralysing commercial activities in Agege area of the state. The group operating under the aegis of Yoruba Appraisal Group (YAG) organized a massive rally and commenced their procession from Women Development Centre in Agege down to Lagos State Secretariat, Alausa, Ikeja area of the state. They said Amotekun is an instrument to perpetrate crime and make political gains for a few individuals masquerading as having the love of the people of the region at heart. Speaking to journalists during the protest, spokesperson for the group, Chief Oloketuyi Joshua said the South West Governors are ignorant by throwing their weight and resources behind a security outfit whose real motive they were not aware of. He said that the alarm raised by eminent Nigerians, including the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Mallami Abubakar, the Convener of the Muslim Muslim Right Congress ( MURIC), Prof. Ishaq Akintola, former Governor of old Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa and the leadership of the Myetti Allah, Kautai Hore on the danger  inherent in establishment of the South West Security initiative cannot be discountenanced. “Amotekun has been hijacked by those who don’t mean well for Yoruba land and the country at large. They plan to hide under the guise of providing security to cause mayhem in the country, ” Oloketuyi said. He said that all they want was to hijack control of security architecture adding that the individuals which he refused to name have successfully achieved with the security outfit. He added that the security Initiative is a healthy development, which ordinarily, no right- thinking person should opposed, saying indications are clear enough to discern that Amotekun will eventually become the Frankenstein monster that the country won’t be able to control. “ Having another rebellion from South West would be one crisis too many for a country still struggling to combat the Boko Haram insurgency in the North East, Banditry and Cattle rustling in the North West and North Central area as well as militancy in the South South. “The Plans is that once Amotekun gains foothold in the region, the new promoters and their foreign sponsors will now show their real colour, real intention by hounding other ethnic groups in the South West in the name of providing security in the region. “In the process embark on a sort of ethnic cleansing and ultimately expelling other Nigerians from Yoruba land through force and violence, the backlash of which will be retaliation in the other region” he said. He called on the President and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigerian, President Muhammadu Buhari, to take urgent and decisive steps to nip the burgeoning insurrection now threatening to arise from the south West under the cover of the Amotekun security outfit in the bud.