The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has expressed sadness with what it described as misleading teaching by some sections of ‘Ulama (preachers) over the corona virus prevalence, intended to misinform their followers. This is just as the President- General JNI, His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, the Sultan of Sokoto called for fervent prayers against the coronavirus. A statement issued by Secretary-General of JNI, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu and made available to newsmen in Kadun said, “We must as an Ummah avoid a repeat of the current trend in Italy, which was partly due to non-adherence to expert advice over the pandemic. Allah, the Most Wise says “…So ask those who know if you know not” Q16:43. “Therefore, we should all bear in mind that knowledge is an Amanah(Trust) and must be safeguarded to and delivered as such, thus the need for this statement. “One may not be wrong to conclude that the action of some of the ‘Ulama clearly depicts sheer whims and caprices of their myopic worldview, stark ignorance of reality based on genuine knowledge and medical scholarship. “It is however regrettable that as the negative actions of such preachers incites’ innocent Muslims, who are unaware of the serious health implications of adhering to such empty dispositions that invariably endanger humanity. “Nonetheless, it should be noted that the issue of plague and/or pandemic is not new throughout human history, either at various times or places, the Muslim world inclusive”. According to the statement, It is thus sheer monumental ignorance to falsely claim that the Pandemic of the Corona Virus does not exist and that it is a lie and a shadow of a ghost, stressing that such lamentable utterances live much to be desired by any scholar that is worth being called a scholar. “Moreover, the matter is a documented fact whose medical precedents have been set in curbing its tide in human history. Therefore, the current position of government is not a new standpoint, to curtail the spread of the infection. Rather, new methods of mitigating it and nipping it in the bud emerged in this contemporary world we leave in, as a result of scholarly findings’’. “For the information of discerning minds, there were prominent incidents of plagues and epidemics in Islamic history, which caused monumental mortality. As a result of which various safety steps were taken, so as to curtail the spread of such viruses. Such steps extended to the stoppage of congregational prayers including Jumu’ah (Friday) prayer with an interim halt to the performance of Hajj (pilgrimage). He cited some Quranic verses and examples where some of the far reaching decisions then were, social distancing – leaving the town and hiding on mountains and in caves as was mandated by Abu Ubaydah, may Allah be pleased with him. “Therefore congregational prayers were equally suspended. In other circumstances Jumu’ah(Friday) prayers were temporarily suspended” he stated. “It is however worth noting that there is a difference between a preacher and a Muslim Jurist. The former has no locus-standi to issues of Fatwa (Islamic legal opinion), as it is the case with some of the Nigerian preachers in recent past, particularly their strong disposition on Covid 19, as they don’t have requisite qualification, whereas, it is the function of the latter. “Such self-appointed jurists, and/or accidental scholars, preachers should desist from venturing into what they have no knowledge of, in the interest of the overall safety, security and common goal of the Muslims. “Without mincing words, the Corona virus pandemic has reminded mankind that despite our advancement in science and technology, God – the Almighty is the Supreme Being and has control over our affairs. This pandemic further reminds mankind that whatever our discovery, if we deny His existence, He will only allow us be for only sometime”. “His Eminence, the Sultan is therefore urging all Muslims to undertake a lot of Fasting by all eligible Muslims as much as they can, particularly that the month of Sha’aban is a month of voluntary fasting by our beloved Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. Aamin”. JNI also called on Nigerian medics to watch out for their safety, while treating cases of Corona Virus patients, to avoid collateral damage on the health system, as the current news from UCH, Ibadan, isn’t palatable. Government on the other hand, most take all the necessary proactive measures in providing emergency manpower, equipment(s) – PPE i.e. Personal Protective Equipment and medications, as well as provide more testing kits and isolation Centres, as information being peddled suggests that the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is already overwhelmed”.