The West African Examination Council (WAEC) yesterday said it has released the first series of the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations, (WASSCE) private candidates results for this year. The council said the results were released in Lagos by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) which conducted the exam between January and February for private candidates. The breakdown of the results showed that a total of 12,075 candidates sat for the examination, out of which only 3,892 (representing 32.23 per cent) obtained credit and above in a minimum of five subjects including English language and General mathematics. 26.08 per cent and 17. 50 percent of the total candidates who sat the 2019 and 2018 editions of the diet respectively obtained similar results, an indication of steady improvement. The Head of National Office, WAEC Nigeria, Mr. Olu Adenipekun announced the release of the results at a press conference at the newly inaugurated HR Management Complex of the examination body in Yaba with top management staff and various zonal coordinators of the organisation across the nation in attendance. He said out of the total candidates, who sat the exam, 11,816 of them (representing 98.27 per cent) had their results fully processed and released, while only 259 candidates (representing 2. 14 per cent) still had a few of their subjects being processed due to errors traceable to them in the course of registration or writing the examination. He also said cases of exam malpractice were recorded giving the total figure of candidates involved in the act to be 548 (representing 4. 54 per cent), adding that their cases were under investigation after which they would know their fate as regards their results, either to be released or cancelled. Adenipekun, an alumnus of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile- Ife and who would be retiring from the service of WAEC on Thursday this week, said the performance of candidates this year compared with the two previous editions, though not encouraging, was better, urging all education stakeholders to brace up for improved performance in future. He, however, said candidates could now start checking their results on the council’s website. The body also announced the introduction of an electronic certificate management system, a portal deployed to enable private candidates to request for certificates online. According to him, collection of certificates by private candidates will be based on online requests by such candidates via the platform. “In order for this to be done seamlessly, we have entered into a partnership with the Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST), therefore, using the expedited mail delivery service of NIPOST, candidates can, upon application and required payments done online, have their certificates delivered to them in any state of the federation, irrespective of where they sat for the examination,” he said. 