A college of Bishops have taken it upon themselves to pray for the release of former Abia State Governor, Senator Orji Uzo Kalu. Kalu, who is also the Chief Whip of the current Senate, was imprisoned by the High Court sitting in Lagos. Kalu, a 2 term governor of Abia State is seen largely as someone who stands a good chance of clinching his party’s Presidential ticket in 2023, if the ruling All Progressives Party (APC), decides to give the slot to an Igbo aspirant. On the first day of their prayer meeting on Tuesday, which was held in Lekki, Lagos, the servants of God stated that God had placed the burden in their hearts to intercede for Kalu. “We have already commenced special prayer and fasting, according to the leading of the Holy Spirit. And we will not rest until God intervenes in Senator Kalu’s situation,” Rev. Bassey Akpan told our correspondent. While giving a brief exaltation titled ‘The Lord That Showeth Mercy.” the President of Pentecostal Ministers Forum, Archbishop Chidi Anthony, asserted that God’s mercy is boundless adding that the same merciful God reaches out to both the deserving and undeserving individual. “We have gathered here as servants of the Most High God, to plead to our Father to show mercy to our brother, with the hope that Senator Orji Uzor Kalu’s service to God and humanity, his contributions to national development, economic empowerment of individual and families across the nation in the past, will be remembered for good.” While leading a session of prayer for national cohesion and progress, Apostle Abraham Nabam of Miracle of The Lord’s Miracles Ministry and the Coordinator of Christian Fellowship Association of Nigeria, recalled that Kalu is indeed a detribalized Nigerian who has also demonstrated great zeal and love for one Nigeria. “The God we are calling upon in this regard, is a God of peace. He is not the author of confusion. I believe that he did not make a mistake when he created our brother Kalu as a Nigerian. Though Kalu is an Igbo man, he is at home in the western, northern, southern, middle Belt and every part of our great nation,”the Bishop said. “In his entrepreneurial, political, religious and social activities,Orji Kalu has demonstrated nobility of character; he had maintained great nationalist focus, which deserves to be encouraged and rewarded with humiliation.” Itoda added. For his own part, Rev Bassy Apkan, however, recalled that in the past, illustrious national figures like Kalu had been lifted from prison yards to become Presidents of Nigeria. “As we pray for Senator Kalu, it is my believe that God who made it possible for the likes of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and the rest, to occupy the nation’s seat of power from the prison will do the same for Kalu. “We also, urge Nigerians will remember this detribalised Nigerian, great apostle of national cohesion, iconic entrepreneur, exceptional politician employer of labour and Industry leader, and consider greater jobs he will yet render to our great nation,” Rev Akpan prayed.