Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele has charged African countries to place more attention on agriculture if they hope to win the war against acute hunger and malnutrition in the continent. Currently an African Development Bank (AfDB) report said Africa spends an estimated $35 billion importing food annually. The CBN Governor says unlocking the huge potential of agriculture must be at the heart of any meaningful engagement on economic and social development of the continent if the region hopes to become the food basket for the world. Speaking yesterday at the ongoing African Economic Research Consortium (AERC) Senior Policy Seminar in Abuja, Mr Emefiele said, “We must urgently develop policy measures around building what has been termed ‘grey matter infrastructure’ in Africa in order to end the scourge of malnutrition.” He maintained that global food security depends on what Africa does with agriculture, adding: “Nigeria and other African countries owe it as a responsibility to come up with policies and strategies to remove the indignity of hunger in the midst of plenty in Africa by stamping down hunger and addressing malnutrition.” Represented by CBN’s director, corporate communications, Isaac Okorafor, the Governor also said that declining global oil prices will have great threat for the economic gains achieved across the region in recent time. Emefiele said binding constraints, such as limited access to technology, markets, infrastructure, finance, amongst others – also need to be addressed. He believes that the absence of policies to encourage the use of movable collaterals, rather than fixed assets to secure lands to do agricultural businesses continues to constrain attempts to  scale-up requisite financing to smallholder farmers in the region. “We must move Africa to the centre of the global food value chain by transforming her agriculture; failure to do this could mean failure to do anything else,” the CBN governor said. “Malnutrition is abnormal and affects millions of children in Africa. These children are either underweight or stunted, wasted or micronutrient deficient.” Also speaking, the minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alh Sabo Nanono said that malnutrition resulting from inadequate food consumption, is a major challenge that Africa policy makers must address. He said, to address food security issues in the region, and to drive inclusive growth and the quality of that growth, Africa governments must be committed to increasing public spending on agriculture by signing the Maputo declaration on agriculture and food security. He stressed that most policies and initiatives in this area have tended to focus on, and to target, agriculture production metrics, and do not directly related to nutrition outcome and targets or actual food consumption.