The Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, has described the state of primary healthcare facilities within the FCT as  deplorable. The minister stated this at the commissioning and official handing over of the newly – constructed maternal and paediatric health centre wing of the Waru Primary Health Centre, FCT, by the Inner City Mission for Children and Women, yesterday in Abuja. He said the administration was not only aware of the deplorable state of primary healthcare facilities in the city, but also the enormous money required to rehabilitate the facilities. The Inner City Mission for Children, is an arm of the Chris Oyakhilome Foundation. It is a full-fledged faith-based non governmental organisation, dedicated to breaking the cycle of poverty by delivering a sustainable solution to the problem of urban and rural child poverty, reaching out to indigent children living in forgotten places. Chairperson of the foundation, Rev Tom Amenkhienan, noted that the Inner City intervention in providing a paediatric and maternal healthcare facility for the Waru community was borne out of passion for indigent children, as mentored by their leader, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome. “Since our first contact with the Waru community through our evangelical initiatives, we took it upon ourselves to make a difference here. Since then, we have carried out diverse interventions to bring joy, and improve the quality of life of the people, including charity food drives in which free meals and food supplies were provided to thousands of families and individuals in the community,  and medical outreaches where thousands of children were immunised against deadly childhood diseases, and much more. “We are constantly working  with our church here in the community, Christ Embassy Waru, to identify critical need areas and organise these efforts for the benefit of the populace.” Further speaking, Ramatu commended the Inner City Mission for their show of selflessness and passion to give back to the society. On his part, Sarki of Waru community, Mr Ibrahim Sarki, appreciated the Inner City Mission and Christ Embassy in general for their kind gesture for constructing a fully- equipped health centre for the community. He noted the burden of accessing healthcare in the community would now be a thing of the past. 