The fear of being kidnapped for ransom now poses a serious threat to communities in the fringes of Abuja, affecting commercial farming activities. While lawmakers lament, the police reveal efforts being made to fight insecurity. IGHO OYOYO, Ejike Ejike write. It is generally believed that the safety of lives and property of people living in a society is the sole responsibility of the government, but when the people no longer feel safe, then there is the need for great concern. This is the case of some residents of Abuja who can no longer sleep with their two eyes closed, as a result of fear of either being kidnapped or killed by armed bandits who are believed to have moved to Abuja from neighbouring states. Information gathered when our reporter visited Abaji area council of Abuja, was that some of the communities targeted by kidnappers in the area are Ahoko-Adabo, Chikara-Sharp bend, Omoko, Aseni, Idu and Orehi. These are communities located on the fringes of Abuja, along the highway. Also, apart from these communities located along the highway, other targets of these bandits and kidnappers are motorists that ply the route at nights. The narrative goes that suspected kidnappers mostly emerge from the surrounding bushes to open fire on vehicles conveying travellers on the highway. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Sunday in Abaji, Alhassan Dogo, a staff of the area council secretariat, explained that travellers have always been the target of the kidnappers, however, most residents of these communities were also not spared as the kidnappers also invade their homes to abduct their victims at gunpoint. Dogo said that nobody expected that the menace of kidnapping will be very close to their doorsteps, as the activities of kidnappers have continued to pose a threat to not only travellers on the highway, but villages located along the highway. He said that not long ago, kidnappers invaded one of their communities and kidnapped three women connected to an APC chieftain, and a certain sum of money was paid by the APC chieftain before the women were released. According to him, the activities of kidnappers have continued to worsen by the day, lamenting that some prominent elders in the community, hardly sleep in their homes because of incessant attacks on the community by the bandits. “Although no life has been lost or anyone injured as a result of these activities of the kidnappers in the community, but the frequent attack on motorists along the highway puts serious fear into residents of the community. “The sound of their gunshots alone sometimes, throws the entire community into panic, especially when they emerge from the bush to attack travellers on the highway,” he said. Mallam Zakare Yohanna, a resident of Aseni village, which is located along the highway, explained that the community is another target for kidnappers, that the knowledge of the threat has constantly put fear in the heart of indigenes and residents of the community. Yohanna explained that kidnappers have always had their way whenever they invade their community from the bush path and abduct their victims for ransom. He explained that the incident that remained fresh in the memory of every indigene of the community, was the one that took place in December 2019, when the kidnappers laid siege on the community during odd hours, and killed a middle-aged man, abducting his wife and a woman. He also added that as a result of kidnapping activities in the area, farmers hardly go to their farms for fear of being kidnapped. “The truth is that you can hardly see people going to farms these days because of the fear of being kidnapped. From what we hear, these kidnapers sometimes place a call to a particular member of the community, which they see as a threat to them and warn such person to be careful with them, “ he said. LEADERSHIP Sunday further gathered that this heinous development made youths of Idu community, close to Aseni village, which is a few meters away from the highway, to form a vigilante group, in order to end the incessant attacks on residents of the community by the kidnappers. One of the vigilantes who pleaded anonymity said that since it seems that the government has failed to protect them, they have decided to take the responsibility to protect themselves from the hands of dangerous armed bandits who have decided to ravage their once peaceful community. He explained that as a result of the formation of the vigilante group, the kidnappers, not too long ago went violent after they discovered that the vigilante members always shoot into the air to scare them away whenever they want to attack their community. He explained further that bandits sometimes passed through the backyard of the community unchallenged, whenever they want to go and strike on the highway, saying there is a big forest where the kidnappers sometimes take their victims to collect a ransom. He said it was as a result of the bandits’ several threats through the Gwari chief, which forced youth of the entire community to stop sleeping at night, saying that the youth mobilized themselves with locally fabricated guns to keep vigil till dawn, in anticipation of an attack by the bandits. The Ona of Abaji and Chairman of the FCT council of chiefs, Alhaji Adamu Yunusa, who has been visibly disturbed by the activities of the kidnappers, also summoned village, tribal chiefs as well as community leaders for an emergency security meeting at his palace last week. Alhaji Yunusa, said that the security meeting became necessary due to reported cases of kidnappings which he said has been causing nightmares to the entire people of his chiefdom. He urged the village, tribal heads and community leaders across the council to set up vigilante groups in their respective communities, so that they work closely with relevant security in order to tame the spate of kidnappings in the area. The monarch said the need for members of the public to collaborate with the security agents became necessary, as it will easily provide security agents with quick access to information to tackle any form of crime. “I want to call on all the village heads, tribal chiefs and community leaders here in this palace, that they should select capable people that will join the vigilante group, as you should ensure that they are screened before they will start work, “ he said. Also speaking, the chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ajiya, who was represented by the council’s secretary, Alhaji Kamal Shuaibu, commended the traditional ruler for summoning for the emergency security meeting at his palace. He said the council has donated three operational vehicles to members of the vigilante group that will patrol alongside the security agents in the area, in order to checkmate activities of armed bandits. The chairman said the council will also provide torchlights, whistles to the vigilante, adding that arrangement was top gear on how to support the vigilante with a monthly salary in order to boost their morale in the course of discharging their duties. Speaking to the President of Abuja Original Inhabitants Youth Empowerment Organisation (AOIYEO), Commandant Isaac David who lamented that if a stringent and proactive measure is not taken to end the spate of kidnappings in the territory, the capital city will not be safe for anybody to live in. David advised the federal government to channel part of the recovered $308m General Sani Abacha loot to the establishment of FCT Security Trust Fund, in order to combat the growing menace of violent crimes and kidnappings in Abuja. He  lamented on the state of insecurity in the FCT, which they said if not tackled urgently through the establishment of Security Trust Fund, would get out of hand. He said that if part of the recovered money is channelled into Security Trust Fund, it will serve as a robust option to put an end to the challenge of insecurity. According to David, if the money is channelled into the fund, it would be used for the acquisition and deployment of security equipment and such human, material, and financial resources as shall be found necessary for the effective functioning of all security agencies operating in the FCT. He also said that some of the funds would be reserved for the training and retraining of security personnel and the recruitment and training of youths from the 858 communities in the FCT as volunteers. “One of the primary responsibilities of the Fund is the provision of operational and logistic support for the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), and it will help in no small measure to address the state’s peculiar security situation through prompt provision of necessary professional and logistical supports for the various security agencies in the FCT to operate seamlessly. “Being the administrative and diplomatic nerve centre of Nigeria, Abuja has its peculiar security challenges. It is sheer human density driven by an increasing population due to endless survival and economic driven immigration makes it naturally attractive to criminal activities. “The Fund will assist in swiftly addressing some of the FCT’s most critical security concerns. The Fund is a practical response to the reality of the operational deficiency of the various security agencies within the state, particularly with respect to funding and provision of modern equipment,” he said. He further said that the FCT has been bedeviled by the serious security challenges, that need urgent attention. He mentioned that if the FCT benefits from the recovered Abacha loot, it could be channeled into fighting the menace of insecurity rocking the territory. According to him, the FCT is developed enough to have surveillance Helicopters managed by the Nigerian Police flying around the territory on daily basis. And if there are surveillance Helicopters, the issue of insecurity would not have been as serious as it is in the FCT. “If part of this money is channelled into the Trust Fund, it will go a long way to help in the fight against insecurity in the FCT, mostly the issue of kidnapping that is ravaging communities. “The issue of Surveillance Helicopters is very important. I believe that the FCT administration, in collaboration with the FCT Police Command can get Surveillance Helicopters for the territory. “Also, a new Minister needs the Helicopters to go round the FCT, in order to know the terrain very well. Apart from the surveillance helicopters, another thing is that the money could help in checkmating the issue of insecurity in the FCT and could be used to open up the undeveloped areas like the forests, so that the Nigerian Army and Police can use the areas as training grounds. “It is a known fact that most criminals in the territory, make use of the forests as their hideouts, but if the forests are cleared and developed for the Army and Police, there will no longer be hideouts for criminals and kidnappers in the FCT. That is is why we seriously need the federal government to include the FCT amongst States that will benefit from the money,” he said. The House of Representative member representing Abuja, Kwali, Kuje and Gwagwalada Federal Constituency Hon. Hassan Sokodobo, was not left out in the quest of finding a lasting solution to the insecurity challenges bedeviling his constituency. He called on the FCT administration led by the minister of FCT, Mallam Bello Muhammed to come to the aid of the people of the area. He said that urgent security measures should be adopted, because of the distance between the military Outpost and the affected communities were kidnapping and robbery have become the order of the day. Sokodobo also commended the quick intervention of the FCT minister recently, on the need to end the activities of bandits in Abuja South, appealing to the government to provide Abaji, Kwali, Kuje and Gwagwalada with enough military personnel and armoury. He expressed worry over the lack of information management each time the military wants to invade the kidnappers’ hideouts. “There are times we called on the FCT minister on security issues and he responded by sending some security personnel to the area we found out to be their hideout. But before the security men’s arrival, the bandits have gotten information and they will all run away, before the coming of the military men. “During a certain period like that, the security personnel stayed in their hideout for a week, but only saw the cooking materials of the bandits. So we are calling on the minister to do more in terms of protecting lives and property in the territory. “Now that the 2019 election has come and gone let us join our hands together to move the FCT forward. Whatever I encourage the minister to do at the end of the day it is my people that will benefit from it,” he said. The lawmaker lamented on the number of kidnapping cases recorded at his constituency, adding the military patrol in the area should be supported and funded so that their operational vehicle will cover the whole of Abuja South. “Unfortunately, it looks like an insider is arranging these crimes, because our people are not given breathing space by the attackers. Very soon I am going to meet with the minister so we can take a definite position to go about the state of security challenges in my constituency. “It is very hard to see our people sleep with their two eyes closed at night. Each time you want to travel that route, you are scared of hitting the road because the next minute they are there, in another minute they are not there,” he lamented.  Police Efforts At Tackling Insecurity In Abuja Worried by the increase in crime and general spat of insecurity in the Federal Capital Territory, the Nigeria Police has said its operatives are working round the clock to tackle these challenges. Reacting to some recent negative reports on insecurity around Abuja, the Police Command in the Federal Capital Territory has reassured the residents of adequate security and protection. The Command’s spokesperson, DSP Anjuguri Manzah said “contrary to the impression being peddled in some misleading publications, the Command with the support of relevant stakeholders and community leaders in FCT has recorded huge successes in its renewed effort to combat and reduce crime to its barest minimum across the territory. Narrating some of the achievements recorded so far, he said “following a special operation launched by Police operatives from FCT Command, four victims of kidnap have been successfully rescued from a notorious kidnappers den located at Sauni Hills, Lambata, FCT-Niger boundary. “The special operation which led to the rescue of the victims and dislodging of the criminal hideout, located in a remote mountainous setting, was sequel to a distress call received at Gwagwalada Division that two persons a male and a female were kidnapped from their home by some heavily armed persons on 8th February, 2020 at 1pm. “Consequent upon the information, the police operatives from Gwagwalada division on Saturday, 8th February, 2020 at about 2pm, launched a major onslaught forcing the heavily armed kidnappers, who engaged the police rescue team in a fierce exchange of gunfire, to abandon their victims at the mountainous terrain, used as their hideout, before escaping through the hills. ‘While two of the rescued victims, Alhaji Umaru Salihu, and Mariam Umaru were kidnapped from their home in Pagada village on 8th February, 2020, the two other victims (Zilkifilu Usman and Usman Shuaibu) informed the police that they were kidnapped from Niger State on 2nd February, 2020, while on transit. Also, Police operatives, while responding to a distress call on Sunday, 2nd February, 2020, at about 5:30pm, in Piri Kwali expressway, arrested four suspected kidnappers, whose syndicate (now at large) fired several shots at a Toyota Previa bus and kidnapped some of its passengers after the bus was forced to stop. While some of the passengers were rescued by the joint effort of the police and some youths of the nearby community, others are still with the kidnappers. The four suspects arrested by the police operatives are: Shuaibu Sule, 27 years, Mohammadu Usman, 25 years, Umar Usman, 19 years and Usman Ibrahim, 20 years all of Kamadi village, Kwali. The Police PRO said exhibits recovered from the suspects are: one dane gun, two cutlasses, one iron bar, and one AK 47 ammunition shell. While speaking further on the activities of the Command in the previous year, Manzah said a total of 992 suspected criminals were arrested and  60 stolen cars recovered in 2019. According to him, “In 2019 alone, the FCT Police Command had arrested 992 dare-devil criminals. The breakdown of the criminals include 210 armed robbery suspects, 29 Kidnap suspects, 77 one chance robbery/fraudster suspects, 86 car theft suspects, 42 drug peddling suspects, and 35 cultism suspects, while 513 suspects were arrested for petty theft and house breaking.” He further noted that exhibits recovered by detectives of the Command, within the same period include, 81 firearms, 118 live ammunition, 60 stolen cars, cutlasses, daggers, knife, and housebreaking equipment, among others. Manzah further stated that “building on its successes for 2019, the Command recently paraded 51 suspects arrested between December 27, 2019 to January, 2020 for armed robbery, cultism, kidnapping, rape, culpable homicide, impersonation, etc. The exhibits paraded alongside the arrested suspects are: 10 firearms, 125 rounds of live ammunition, 12 cutlasses, one car, one Tricycle, 74 phones, etc.” “The proactive effort of the FCT Police Command and gallantry displayed by its personnel foiled a major attempt by some daredevil armed robbery suspects to rob a bank at Mpape on 28th December, 2019. “The five suspects linked to the crime have been arrested, the investigation has also been concluded and the court has fixed 14th February, 2020 as the date for their arraignment at High Court 22 Wuse Zone 2.” He however, stated that some recent negative and exaggerated reports on insecurity in Abuja were aimed at belittling the laudable and obvious crime fighting successes recorded by the Command, in collaboration with well-meaning FCT residents; noting that “it is imperative to set the records straight by informing the public that the FCT Police Command in its effort to ensure the protection of lives and property and render quality service delivery to the public, after wide consultation with leaders of thought and relevant stakeholders, drew up a Policing plan, which guided its policing activities in 2019. “ The 2019 FCT Policing Plan, an initiative of the Commissioner of Police FCT, CP Bala Ciroma with support from the Nigeria Policing Plan (NPP) was designed to address the following crimes of concern, identified by the stakeholders: Drug Abuse, Theft/Housebreaking, One Chance Robbery, Armed Robbery, Car Theft, kidnapping, Cultism among others. “Consequent upon the effort of the Command, five suspects credibly identified to be secret informants to kidnappers were arrested in Abaji in 2019, lending great support to the feat attained in addressing kidnapping in the axis. “Despite the tremendous breakthroughs which have resulted in the arrests of suspects, dislodging of hideouts used for kidnapping, one chance robbery, and other criminal activities, the Police Command will not rest on its oars until criminal elements are flushed out of FCT.”