Electoral violence has plagued Nigeria’s democracy since 1999. However moves to amend the Electoral Act to establish an electoral offenses commission is ongoing at the National Assembly, GODWIN MBACHU, dissects the issues. Over the years, Nigeria’s democracy has had to struggle against the daunting challenge of electoral violence which for many pundits has retarded the smooth operations of transitional process. To worsen the situation, after each election cycle, addressing the root cause of such acts of violence are never robust and exhaustive done as such deserves,  adequate and lasting punishment for such offenders are often not realised. According to the (2010) Electoral Act as amended, electoral offences comprises of snatching of ballot paper boxes, making away with election results and destroying of election results and flagrant abuse of electoral Laws. Others include, casting of vote twice or more, announcing false election result, stopping any other person from voting, revealing information on a ballot paper of another person, being in possession of another person’s voter card, disorderly behaviour at polling unit, canvassing for votes at polling unit, shouting Slogan of a political party at polling unit, being armed with guns, sticks, stones or any other dangerous weapons at polling unit. Also, loitering or walking about in a polling unit, using siren at a polling unit, snatching or destroying ballot boxes or Card readers, holding public meeting during election hours on Election Day, wearing or carrying badge or poster of a political party, and Inflicts or threatens to inflict injury on any person or persons at a polling unit are listed as electoral offences. Interestingly, while such acts of violence  are anticipated ahead of elections, efforts to stop them almost amount to naught. Despite preparations and red flags by security agencies ahead of the 2019 general elections, an estimated 626 persons were killed across Nigeria in the six months between the start of the election campaign and the commencement of the general and supplementary elections, the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room revealed last year. The group said the number increased compared to the 106 killed in the 2015 general elections. ”At least, 626 people were said to have been killed between the start of the campaign in October 2018 and the final election in March 2019, ” the coalition observer group said. According to the report, the North-west region recorded the highest number of deaths with 172 killed during the elections, while the North-east followed with 146 fatalities. Also, the report revealed that the South-south and North-central had 120 and 111 fatalities respectively. Sixty-three people were killed in the South-west, while 14 were killed in the South-east. ”Situation Room is deeply worried about the spike in politically motivated killings in the period leading up to the elections. ”At least, 626 people were said to have been killed between the start of the campaign in October 2018 and the final election in March 2019, ” the coalition observer group said. The organisation also revealed that Benue, Borno, Kaduna, Rivers, and Zamfara led with the highest casualties during the elections. Just when many thought that the experience of general elections in 2019 was enough caution, the governorship elections in Bayelsa and Kogi States later same year, showed that little or no lessons were learnt. The elections were marred by electoral violence. The Centre for Democracy and Development and the Centre for Citizens with Disabilities while decrying the violence during the election, knocked the security operatives for allegedly colluding with state officials to undermine the electoral process in both states. Presenting a report on the elections to journalists in Abuja the CDD Executive Director, Idayat Hassan, said many voters were disenfranchised in Kogi as a result of threats to life. She said the elections were “violently and crudely undermined by an unrelenting band of partisan outlaws,” noting that CDD observers and journalists in Kogi reported the death of 10 persons and over 79 critical incidents during the polls in the state.” Hassan stated, “The sheer magnitude of the violent assault on the sanctity of the ballot was shocking beyond description. The outcome of such a process that was so criminally subverted should not be allowed to stand. “At the last count, our observer report from Kogi State had recorded the death of 10 people in various shooting incidents and attacks across the state. This has combined to damage the credibility of the polls.” She added, “The incidents range from hijack of electoral materials by thugs, kidnap of INEC ad hoc staff, vote-buying, ballot snatching, attack on observers and journalists and under-age voting.” In Bayelsa, the CDD director said the polls also recorded thuggery, shooting, vote-buying, coordinated attacks against the voting environment, particularly in opposition strongholds, as well as impersonation by voters. Seemingly overwhelmed by the challenge of electoral violence during elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has repeatedly expressed its inability to handled such matters. The election management body had also called repeatedly for the establishment of an Electoral Offence Commission that will be solely be responsible for prosecuting offenders as a way to tackle this issue robustly. The outcry over the alarming rate of electoral crime in election has propelled the National Assembly to commence areview of the Electoral Act to strengthen the country’s democracy. The task before the legislature is to repealobnoxious laws and enact new ones that will help define the conduct of election in Nigeria. Some political analysts and constitutional lawyers have however, argued that Nigeria has enough laws that will address the age long electoral crime but that the refusal of the political elite over the years to the enforce such laws is the bane of the electoral system. A former special adviser to former speaker of Delta State on legal affairs and human right lawyer,  Bar Emma Dibia said “there is nothing absolutely wrong with some of our laws, I can tell you that what is wrong is the zeal to implement or enforce the law. “One thing is for the National Assembly to make laws, it’s another thing to enforce the law, so for me we have enough laws but the problem is enforcement. You cannot just embark on chunking out laws for the sake of it without it  impacting on the society,” he said. Nevertheless, a Bill for the establishment of a National Electoral Offences Commission is before the Senate and House of Representatives for consideration and passage. The commission if established will deal with flagrant abuse of electoral laws. The bill has passed second reading on the floor of the Senate penultimate week. The bill, which was sponsored by Senator Abubakar Kyari (APC, Borno), proposes a jail term of 20 years or fine of N40m for any candidate, person or agent who destroys electoral materials during election. It also seeks to prohibit hate speech or words that incite violence during elections and proposes 10 years or a fine of at least N40m or both for offenders. The new bill is also proposing a term of 15 years on anyone found guilty of “destroying, snatching or opening a ballot box when you are not so authorised.” If the proposed legislation is passed, a person shall be jailed for 15 years if, without due authority takes out at polling station any electoral document, or he is found in possession of any electoral document outside a polling station. It also seeks an imprisonment of 20 years without an option of fine for a judicial officer or officer of a court or tribunal who is found guilty of corruptly preventing electoral justice, before, during and after election. Senate President Ahmad Lawan and other lawmakers who contributed to the debate at plenary advocated penalties for electoral offences. The lawmakers, in their contributions, said the commission should exist along with a special tribunal to prosecute electoral offences. They said establishing a tribunal would sanitise the electoral process, deepen Nigeria’s democracy and bring an end to impunity associated with elections. Kyari, in his lead debate, said the bill would solve the problem associated with elections, if passed into law. He said electoral crimes helped election riggers and offenders take control of government against the will of the people. Senate Leader Yahaya Abdullahi described electoral offense as an existential threat to Nigeria’s democracy. In his submission to the  debate, Senate  minority Leader Eyinnaya Abaribe said if electoral offenses are tried in normal courts, the delay in the judgement will still go on, while Senator Adamu Aliero (APC, Kebbi) and Rochas Okorocha (APC, Imo) advocated stiffer sanctions to deter electoral offenders. Senator Adamu Aliero alleged that politicians employed all sorts of strategies to ensure that they won elections. George Sekibo (PDP Rivers) urged the president to assent to the bill when it gets to him, saying anything contrary would mean that 2023 general elections would be worse than previous elections. In the House of Representatives the same Bill has enjoyed accelerated hearing as well. The Electoral Offences Commission (Establishment) Bill 2020, which was sponsored in the House of Representatives by Hon. John Dyegh, has passed first reading. The INEC chairman, Professor Mahmood Yakubu, is hopeful that the Bill to establish the National Electoral Offences Commission will get expeditious passage. Speaking at the opening of a two-day INEC retreat with members of the National Assembly on the Electoral Legal Framework in Lagos yesterday recently, Yakubu said: “The country can no longer afford to foot drag on this important legislation which will provide the framework to deal with impunity and brigandage in elections which are becoming more brazen essentially because violators of electoral laws are not effectively prosecuted.” Tracing the recent history of attempts at electoral reforms in the country, Yakubu recalled the Uwais Committee on Electoral Reform of 2009; the Lemu Committee on the 2011 Post-election Violence and the Nnamani Committee on Electoral Reform of 2017. He regretted, however, that 11 years after the Uwais recommendation, “we are still talking about the prosecution of electoral offences.” Yakubu, therefore, urged the ninth National Assembly to make history by passing “this important bill” into law, adding: “It’s time to walk the talk. Other critical areas of electoral reform being considered included deployment of technology in elections. On this issue, Yakubu was hopeful that the 2019 national elections would mark the end of mainly manual voting in Nigeria. He said: “Already, the commission has an electronic register of voters. Similarly, voters’ accreditation has also gone electronic. It is time for a new legislation to remove all encumbrances to the deployment of technology in the electoral process, especially in the accreditation of voters and transmission of election results.” According to him, “The House of Representatives is working on its own bill. Given the urgency of the situation, the two chambers of the National Assembly may wish to consider adopting the current bill and to organise a joint public hearing for the passage of the amendments into law in earnest.” With the Bill done with at the legislature the focus will shift to the executive. President Muhammadu Buhari  has since indicated his desire to see robust electoral reforms as such many believe that this might just be the beginning of the end to the era of unabashed electoral violence in the country.