As part of measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 infection to the state a Non-governmental organization in Akwa Ibom under the aegis of Iniememobong Foundation has appealed to the media practitioner’s in the state to help in spreading the message of social distancing. President of the Foundation, Comrade Ini Ememobong made the appeal at the in Uyo, while presenting hand sanitizers to members of the Correspondents’ chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, (NUJ) Akwa Ibom state. Ememobong said the foundation during its sensitization to some communities across the state, observed that the major challenge the state faces currently in the fight against Corona virus ravaging the world today was non-compliance with social distancing. He stressed that no matter the level of preparedness of a state or a nation, that prevention remains the best way to fighting the virus. “The best way of fighting COVID-19 is to prevent it from entering your domain. So we need to push this advocacy, let people believe that it is true. We observed that people don’t comply with social distancing, they don’t even believe in Corona virus that is a serious challenge. “This is a period of unity of purpose, therefore, my appeal is that you must help promote the messages of personal hygiene, washing hand in running water, the practice of social distancing. “As we speak government is doing its best, but government is not expected to do what citizens should do for themselves, including to practice social distancing and other preventive measures, so help government to push this message of social distancing” Ememobong who stressed that there was need for everybody to be careful over the COVID-19 outbreak, explained that the seven days lockdown which begins from next Monday, would determine if they state succeeded in containing the virus. He noted that if the state did not record any case of persons that have contracted the virus “it will be sure that Akwa Ibom is safe. The seven days lockdown is going to be a tough period, but it is something we must do to stay safe. “There is nothing that government should do that Akwa Ibom government has not done to prevent COVID-19 entering the state, so I can assure you that the government of this state is putting its best in this fight against COVID-19”