The Nigeria Correctional Service in Akwa Ibom State has evolved protective measures against the spread of coronavirus across the centres in the state. The controller of corrections, Akwa Ibom State Command, Mr Alex Oditah, disclosed this when he visited Ikot Abasi and Eket Correctional Service Centres, yesterday. Oditah said that he came to the centres to sensitise the staff and inmates to be conscious of the pandemic, COVID-19. “We have come to sensitise both the inmates and staff on the need to be conscious of the pandemic virus ravaging the world and to keep the environment clean at all times,” he said. He explained that the Controller General of Operations, Alhaji Ja’Afara Ahmed had given directives to make available water, soap, sanitisers, infrared and thermometers in all the correctional service centres as a preventive measure against coronavirus in the state. Oditah said that the he had visited Uyo, Ikot Ekpene, Ikot Abasi and Eket Correctional Service Centres to comply with the directive of the Controller General of Operations. Also, speaking, the Deputy Controller of Corrections in charge of Eket, Mr George Njoku said that he had complied with the directive of the command. “The controller had directed me to put necessary measures in place because he want to protect his staff and inmates against contracting coronavirus,” he said. Lagos Ram Sellers Elect Officials The Lagos State Ram Sellers Association has conducted a successful election after 20 years. During the election, Alhaji Ibrahim Mustapha Alkali polled 33 votes to defeat his rival, Alhaji Lauga. The election was conducted by the electoral committee of the group and observed by the Nigeria Police Force, State Security Services (SSS), Nigeria Security and Civil Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) representative of Arewa Community in Lagos, Alhaji Musa Saleh, the secretary general of the community and Northern Nigeria Youths Organisation, Alhaji Sani Sulisu Dantaqa. The secretary general of Arewa community urged the new chairman-elect to carry every member of the group along for the progress of the group and Lagos State. He said that leadership is a big test given to the elected officials by the group and urged them not to let the members down. In his acceptance speech, the chairman of the association, Alhaji Alkali who won the election, thanked every member of the group and promised not to let them down. He urged every member of the group to support him to deliver good leadership. “I want all ram sellers association of Lagos State chapter to come together for the progress of our group and I promise to give listening ear for everyone that come with good advices. The election committee chairman, Alhaji Hassan Magorori, who said the process was transparent, urged the members to bury their differences and work as one. LEADERSHIP reports that the total number of registered branches was put at 58 while the accredited voters were put at 33 with all the votes going to one person.