Nigeria’s customer centric telecommunication company, 9mobile has further empowered its customers in Abuja by boosting its 4G-LTE service in the nation’s capital. This is to enable them to enjoy high quality voice and data services on the network. Over the weekend, the telco unveiled its expanded 4G coverage in Abuja, which means that more customers in the nation’s capital can now enjoy 9mobile’s ultra-fast internet services. As part of the drive to create awareness of the expanded 4G LTE coverage, the telecom’s activation team organised a roadshow in the city with visits to key areas such as Lugbe, Garki, Zuba Road, Kubwa and Karshi. The roadshow climaxed with a funfair at Mpape New Market Shopping Arcade where residents of Abuja city and surrounding communities were treated to fun, entertainment, music and games. Many new and existing customers of 9mobile also participated in raffle draws and won lots of gifts including power generators, refrigerators, microwaves, rechargeable fans, sewing machines, electric kettles, pressing irons, gas cylinders, bags of rice, groundnut oil amongst others. Speaking at the event, acting director, Marketing, 9mobile, Layi Onafowokan, said the funfair was aimed at raising awareness about the availability of full 4G LTE coverage in the FCT as well as reward its customers for their trust and loyalty to the brand. While soliciting the continued patronage of existing customers and welcoming new subscribers onboard, he assured them of loads of benefits on the 9mobile network including access to affordable superior quality data packages and bonuses that suit their needs. Onafowokan said, “The reason we are doing this is because we want our customers across Nigeria to know that 4G LTE from 9mobile is now available in many towns, cities and communities, and most importantly to let them know the service is affordable for everyone. We want our customers to understand that firstly, we provide quality data which is now at their fingertips; secondly, that affordability comes with much more data volume for the same price.” He stated further that in many innovative ways 9mobile continues to demonstrate commitment to the empowerment of its customers across all strata. “Everybody is welcome to enjoy our offers, everyone is encouraged to come and enjoy the quality network 9mobile is bringing to Nigerian customers,” Onafowokan said. He explained that the reason for expanding 4G service in the nation’s capital after the initial launch three years ago, he stated that the significant growth in customer base in the territory necessitated this. “What we have done in Abuja is that we have expanded the number of base station sites so we now cover more areas in Abuja, because Abuja is one of the fastest growing cities in Nigeria and we need to cater for our customers within the FCT,” he added. Beyond the gifts, the crowd of residents got dazzled by hit songs by Ice Prince Zamani and Classic. 