For the first time, governors from the North-east states met last Thursday in Gombe to fashion a common front on addressing issues facing the region, JAIYEOLA ANDREWS writes To say that the North-east geo-political zone is facing monumental security challenges, occasion by activities of dreaded terrorist groups is to state the obvious. Activities of the terrorists, have left thousands dead, maimed and homeless. Also, the zone has been dragged economically, educationally, socially and politically backward as a result of the deadly activities of the terrorists sect. In view of these challenges, the governors from the zone, at the instance of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya met at the Government House, Gombe last week Thursday to deliberate with a view to finding the way out of the woods. Other states in the region namely, Borno, Yobe, Bauchi, Taraba, Adamawa were represent at the meeting. Before the meeting, relevant government agencies including the Northeast Development Commission (NEDCO) briefed the governors on the real situation of things in the region and how they could go about providing lasting solutions. The aim of the historic consultative meeting was to close ranks among the states as well as chart a way forward for the North-east sub-region. It was also an avenue for the governors to interface and dialogue on how to attain their aspirations and objectives. With governors of other regions meeting more frequently on issues of common interest (particularly on economy and security) many pundits had wondered why the North-east zone has not been able to hold such strategic interface. While some pundits aver that the security situation in the zone is peculiar, they argue that the intervention of the military over the security arrangements in the region has seen most of the governors take a back seat before now. Others however aver that the governors could as well have been meeting on other social security issues to chart a course for the zone. According to an analyst,  Aliyu Shehu, “as much such a meeting should have been holding long before now, it is nonetheless a good step for the region. I agree that the military is fully in charge of the security in the region because of the nature of security challenge they face over the years. “However it is also good that the political leaders met at region level to support initiatives that will support the military and help to assuage the challenges faced by the people. So for me I think the maiden meeting is a good step,” he said.  The issues Without a doubt, security was always going to be uttermost at the meeting. But there were other issues. The question for region power generation and distribution was also topical. For a region blessed with vast arable land, agricultural potentials of the region was also a point for discuss, just as job generation, especially with reference to the cement industry was concerned was also discussed. The one-day meeting, which started in the afternoon, dragged into the night. The host, Gombe State Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya wasted no time in setting the tone for the meeting. He started off with the most pressing issue affecting the region, insurgency which according to him has killedthousands of people and displaced millions. He was also mindful of the debilitating climate change effects that endanger the livelihood of millions of people along the Chad basin and beyond, coupled with desertification with its attendant environmental damage. For these factors have led to a systematic decline in the quality of life of people,  making the North-east region the most underdeveloped subregion in the country. He placed the burden on the shoulders of the leaders in the zone, stressing that they have to take on these challenges with all sense of responsibility. He added, “The prevailing security situation poses an existential threat to our subregion. And therefore, necessitatesthe need for us to convene this gathering in order to come up with a united front that can address our collective challenges as a subregion. I’m sincerely grateful to my colleagues and brothers from Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Yobe and Taraba States for answering this call. History will remember us for this bold initiative.” He added that the security situation and its attendant humanitarian effects, ushered in a donor industry that has its pros and cons, noting that on one side, donor agencies provides the much-needed interventions to stabilize the zone’s communities and prevents an all-out humanitarian emergency, and  on the other side, some unscrupulous elements/entities seeks to commercialize the suffering of the people. “The solutions, my dear colleagues and brothers, is not to throw away the baby with the bathwater. The solution lies in our ability to create, implement and enforce a common regional framework for coordinating donor-driven humanitarian interventions across our subregion. I have already shared these concerns privately with all of you at different fora. On our part, Gombe State has created an office to properly coordinate the activities of donor agencies and development partners. “Another corollary to the security situation and under-development in the North-East is the establishment of the North East Development Commission  (NEDC).  We are grateful to the President and the National Assembly for this timely intervention. “But beyond all the slogans, we must be willing to learn lessons from our history. For the NEDC to position itself as a truly development agency that is capable of creating positive impacts on our people, it must avoid the pitfalls of similar agencies like the NDDC in the Niger Delta. The NEDC should operate as a unique driver of development in the subregion. “This can be achieved by creating a strong synergy with all our states and promoting wider consultation among relevant stakeholders. The objective of the NEDC should not be just to execute projects, but to execute those projects that have immediate impacts on our population, that increase the resilience and capacity of our people and institutions to deal with both present and emerging challenges” Yahaya stressed. On the issue of the Lake Chad Basin, the governor said it is another issue that affects livelihood of the people of the zone on a regional scale. Yahaya stressed that over the past six decades since independence, the Lake Chad has shrunk to one-tenth of its original size, noting that the deteriorating state of affairs poses serious threats to security and livelihood. “The shrinking Lake Chad Basin has led to the loss of livelihoods for millions of our people who rely on the Lake Chad for food as farmers, fishermen and traders. it has also led to declining fauna and flora, thus pushing our nomadic population south-ward, bringing them into contact with farmers and exacerbating farmer-herder tensions with all its awful consequences.” Stressing the challenge the situation  poses to the region, he however said the solution cannot be achieved in one single term or by a single government. “That’s why we launch a tree planting campaign in Gombe that is committed to planting 4 million trees under the Gombe Goes Green Initiative, to combat desertification, soil erosion and deforestation. Efforts are also in place to phase out firewood and tree-felling in order to transit our people to sustainable energy sources,” the governor said. He also highlighted the power supply challenge as another issue of great concern to the people of the region. As one of the biggest enablers of development through large scale industrialization and proliferation of small-scale businesses, he said power transmission and distribution has been of great concern to the region. “The issue of the Mambilla Hydropower plant is central to the development and industrialization of our region and the country at large. As the largest such project in the country and the second largest in Africa, the project offers great opportunity towards regional energy independence and prosperity. We are glad to hear that all the legal issues surrounding the project have been resolved and the project will soon takeoff,” he said. Another issue was the discovery of oil in the region. The governor who acknowledged oil as discovered in the zone, would open up a new window of opportunity for the people, however noted that it comes with challenges. He was underscoring the narrative of resource curse in the developing world especially Africa, stressing that the region would strive to avoid it. Yahaya said, “the experience of the Niger Delta is there for all of us to see. We have seen how oil exploration without commensurate investment in the development of local host communities endangered the livelihood of our indigenous communities and created an explosive cocktail of social, political and economic discontents. “To avoid this scenario, we need to promote collective ownership and shared responsibility in the management of our region’s oil wealth. This means, first investing in the welfare and education of host communities to enable them drive the process and committing oil companies to a set of best practices in oil exploration, exploitation, environment management and sustainability,” he added.  The 12-points Communique And the end of the one-day meeting, the governors aggregated their views and came up with a 12-points communique. The communique, read by the host governor, said:  “we, the Governors of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba and Yobe States, met in Gombe on the 5th Day of March 2020, to brainstorm on the challenges facing the North East subregion with a view to proffering solutions towards addressing them. After exhaustive deliberations, we resolve as follows: “To direct our Attorney-Generals to look into the possibility of enhancing security via regional initiatives within the ambit of the law. We demand that all projects that are to be implemented by the North East Development Commission should be delivered through a demand-driven approach that takes into considerations our unique needs and priorities. “The issue of local content development is key to our success and we are committed to supporting local content initiatives for the benefit of our people. We will support initiatives that will ensure the success of the Mambilla hydropower project for immediate productivity. We are going to look into the possibility of Regional Power Generation and examine ownership of DISCOs among other things. “The Forum discussed extensively with Lafarge- Ashaka Cement Factory on the need to address the existing road infrastructural deficit, taking advantage of the of Executive order 7 of the Federal Government. “We agreed to examine the agricultural potentials of the region, conduct baseline studies with a view to enhancing robust value chain in agriculture to address food security in our region. “The Forum also decried the deplorable condition of the Lake Chad Basin and called on the FGN to come up with comprehensive water resources management, fast tracking the FGN water transfer from the Congo River, while we commit to collaborating on the de-silting of the basin as a start of the reactivation project. “Forum resolved to key into the environmental initiatives including the Great Green Wall and Afforestation. “On the oil discovery in the region, the Forum praised the FGN, the National Assembly and Nigerians at large on the renewed interest of hydrocarbon in the region and appreciate the understanding of Nigerians of our unique circumstances and wholly commit to deepening community engagement and urged the NEDC to invest in the oil production in the region as well provide scholarship to indigenes of the North East in the oil and gas sector. “We have agreed to set up a Technical Working Committee in order to build a regional platform for the successful implementation of all positions agreed today.” The governor added that the forum  agreed to meet again in April, and our meeting will be quarterly thereafter. Expectedly, expectations are high that the initiate by the governors to brainstorm will start the process of aggregating the strengths of each state towards addressing the issue besetting the region. While some analysts would expect the the governors to take a leaf from their counterparts in other regions on how to sustain such meetings in the interest of the North-east, the need to jettison partisan political inclinations will be vital to the attainment of the objectives of the meeting.