A chieftain of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and former senior special adviser to All Progressives Congress (APC) national  chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, Roland Igbadumhe, has called on his ex-principal and the Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, to sink their differences and work together in the interest of peace in the state. Igbadumhe told newsmen in Abuja that the feud between Obaseki and Oshiomhole had impacted negatively on Edo State,  adding that reconciliation would help restore the “battered” image of the state since the crisis broke out. He said that the “shabbily” constituted Edo State House of Assembly which is the  fallout of the frosty relationship between the two gladiators has resulted in a situation where some constituencies are not well represented in the law-making arm of government. Igbadumhe said: “All parties involved in the crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress party in Edo State must sheathe their swords and allow good governance to take its root in the state. The fight does not augur well for the state; rather it is slowing down the pace of development if it is not laid to rest now. Oshiomhole is an asset that should not be ridiculed no matter the differences between them. He deserves the respect of all, including that of Governor Godwin Obaseki. “Etsako East constituency does not have a voice representing the people in the House and this has continued to bring about untold hardship as no one is addressing pertinent issues that concern them. The people of Edo State need quality representation, hence the need for the governor to properly constitute and inaugurate the house of assembly in the interest of the good people of the state.” It would be recalled that 14 out of the 24 House of Assembly members-elect are yet to be sworn-in into the Edo State House of Assembly, as the worsening relationship between Oshiomhole and his successor has thus far, failed to give room for the possibility of reconciliation. However, Igbadumhe who was Oshiomhole’s aide for eight years when the latter was Edo State governor added that some members of the APC have continued to drag the image of the state in the mud thereby creating unnecessary tension, that has made it difficult for genuine peace to take root. He called on Obaseki to embrace Oshiomhole to demonstrate truism in the saying that “eadership is not a pleasure but a deep and heavy responsibility.” “We are known as peace loving people in Edo State and we prioritize the issue of obedience and loyalty. The governor must promote an all-inclusive government and also respect party ethics and give peace a chance by working with all party structures. “This crisis has been allowed to drag on for too long and this has continued to put the state in bad light, created more uncertainties, thereby resulting in a huge burden on the already fragile economy. The state deserves some fresh air. We need to create jobs for our youths who must not be left to die in penury. Our women must be empowered, and democratic institutions must be strengthened to deliver services to the people,” he added.  