Churches in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital yesterday  adopted new gathering methods to meet the state government’s directives against the spread of the coronavirus in the state. Most of the churches, which commenced their Sunday services as early as 7a.m, applied hand sanitisers on the worshippers before they were allowed into the church auditorium. Governor Kayode Fayemi had in a statewide broadcast on Friday announced the prohibition of gathering of more than 20 persons in worship and other public places with immediate effect. He also directed that all schools in the state be shut down until further notice among other measures to prevent people from being infected by the dreaded viral disease. Churches that usually record huge attendance every Sunday had to break the services into sessions, with stipulated time within which the services must be concluded. In some of the Pentecostal churches visited by our correspondent in Ajilosun area of the town, the worshippers were divided into classes where they had crashed service to ensure that they closed early. Such classes were arranged within and outside the church auditorium with number of members not up to 20. At one of the orthodox churches, located around Ijigbo, the sitting arrangement was given special attention. Unlike before when about six to eight people are allowed to sit on a pew, only four to five persons were allowed to occupy each of the pews. Provision of more plastic chairs were also made with reasonable space and distance observed. Members of a popular church in the country had earlier gathered for Sunday service before they were directed by the church authorities to go back and hold the service at the nearest house fellowship close to them. At the fellowship, those who have the pay television, which transmit the live, service being led by the head of the church, worship along but those without such hold coordinated service themselves. It was observed that most churches within the metropolis ended their service as early as possible. One of the  pastors of the churches visited who spoke on the condition of anonymity said all measures are being taken to curtail the spread even as the people are desirous of worshipping their God. One thing that is common to all is the prayer offered to God to quickly end the spread of the disease in the country and the world at large.