The management of Dangote Cement Plc presented its audited full year financial results ended December 31, 2019 to the investing public, with an impressive dividend payout. The company rewarded its shareholders with an impressive return on their investment as the directors recommended an increased dividend of N16 per share for approval at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for June 15, 2020. The Group’s investment across Africa is bearing the desired results as Pan-African sales volume grew in the year 2019, hitting 9.6Mt from 9.4Mt. According to the full year report released on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Dangote Cement Plant, Mtwara, Tanzania, recorded an increase of 94 percent increase in volume within the review period. Dangote Cement Plant, Pout, Senegal put up a remarkable performance with sales up more than 100 percent of rated capacity. Speaking on the result, Group chief executive officer, Dangote Cement, Joe Makoju, said, “Dangote Cement maintained strong financial performance despite a low growth environment, pricing pressure and increasing competition in key markets.  The Nigerian operations maintained volume and revenue performance in a challenging environment. “Export sales were affected by the border closure in the second half of 2019. Looking ahead, I expect an increase in volumes in 2020 as we commence clinker exports via shipping from Nigeria. “Pan-Africa volumes were slightly up notably supported by Tanzania and Senegal. I am glad to report that Tanzania contributed positively at EBITDA level. In 2020, I believe Dangote Cement will see an increase in profitability in Pan-Africa driven by higher volumes and further efficiency improvements. “As I retire from Dangote Cement, I am proud to have watched it grow from a local producer back in 2007 to a major force in global cement production. Dangote Cement has eliminated Nigeria’s dependence on imported cement and has transformed the nation into an exporter of cement serving neighbouring countries. I wish Mr Michel Puchercos all the best as the new Group Chief executive officer of Dangote Cement.” Meanwhile, Dangote Cement is the first Nigerian corporate body to undertake a share buyback as a corporate action, to buy back 10 per cent of its entire issued shares from shareholders was unanimously granted on January 22, 2020 as the company’s shareholders’ voted in support of the share buyback plans. Reasons for Dangote Cement buying back shares are to increase long term shareholder value. Considering the review of the company’s share price and prevailing equity market conditions, the board of Dangote Cement believed that at the current market valuation values, the initiative is considered as one of the appropriate capital allocation decisions to improve long term shareholder value. Also, the exercise is expected to support the cement manufacturer’s continuous capital structure and balance sheet optimisation process. This means that repurchasing shares while improving financing and balance sheets efficiency is expected to reduce the cost of capital and enhance investors’ value. While some investors prefer cash distributions, others would choose to stay invested in a company. To cater to both, Dangote Cement decided to use a combination of dividends distribution and share buybacks to strike the right balance, while the initiative would help reduce the number of shares outstanding and increases the proportional rights of any single share. This means that the earnings per share (EPS) would be higher due to the share buyback and shareholders that want to remain invested in the company in the long term would benefit from this. All the shareholders who spoke at the Dangote Cement Extra-Ordinary General Meeting (EGM) on the share buyback exercise lauded Aliko Dangote led Management for coming up with another scheme that will both enhance the share value of the company and also ensure more returns on their investment. National coordinator of the Independent Shareholders Association, Sir Sunny Nwosu said Nigerian shareholders will forever appreciate the share buyback plan of the company especially at this time of the year. According to him, I think Dangote is learning from Microsoft, where Bill Gates also buy back shares of Microsoft. I want to sincerely congratulate Aliko on this noble idea. In 2008, Independent shareholders Association sponsored a seminar on share buy- back because of its value and importance. As shareholders, we have been clamoring for share back for so many years, and today Aliko Dangote has given us hope. “This is very good as against the practice of share deconstruction that is being practiced by some Nigerian companies which never gave back anything positive to the shareholders. The share buyback was practiced in Ghana with just few companies listed on its Exchange and we are indeed very happy with this and we are also quite sure that with this that you have done today, you have proved yourself to be the best chairman of all the corporate companies in Nigeria. We will not disappoint you and very delighted because we know that, this arrangement will lead to share price increase and more dividends for the shareholders” In the same vein, president of Authentic Nigerian Shareholders Association, Alhaji Mohammed Audu described Dangote as a God-sent and expressed hope that the money realised from the share buyback by the shareholders will be used for investment purposes. He said, “Aliko Dangote does not need this money. He is taking this decision because of the shareholders. The share buy-back will ensure that the value of our share will go up and we are also sure of getting better dividend. So, as you can see, all the shareholders here today voted unanimously in support of the motion. We voted for it and also thank Aliko Dangote for making us richer.” The shares will be repurchased out of the profits of the company and such number of shares bought under the programme is required to be cancelled in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and the Nigerian Stock Exchange Rulebook 2015, which will consequently lead to a reduction in issued share capital. The buy-back programme will be completed within 12 months from the today. Dangote Cement, which currently has 17.04 billion fully paid up ordinary shares of 50 kobo each, would be buying back 1.70 billion shares. As at January 24, 2020, Dangote Cement share price stood at N174.90, with a total market capitalization of N2.980 trillion. The share price has went up by 23.17 per cent this year as at January 24 to N174.90 from an opening price of N142.00 on January 2, 2020. Dangote Cement is Africa’s leading cement producer with nearly 46Mta capacity across Africa. It is a fully integrated quarry-to-customer producer, with a production capacity of 29.25Mta in its home market, Nigeria. Obajana plant in Kogi state, Nigeria, is the largest in Africa with 13.25Mta of capacity across four lines; Ibese plant in Ogun State has four cement lines with a combined installed capacity of 12Mta and Gboko plant in Benue state has 4Mta. In addition, Dangote Cement has operations in Cameroon (1.5Mta clinker grinding), Congo (1.5Mta), Ghana (1.5Mta import), Ethiopia (2.5Mta), Senegal (1.5Mta), Sierra Leone (0.5Mta import), South Africa (2.8Mta), Tanzania (3.0Mta), Zambia (1.5Mta). 