A Non- Governmental Organization (NGO), Connected Development (CODE) in partnership with YouthHub Africa with support from Christain Aid has launched a nationwide Youth Challenge Fund to provide young people with deliver innovative solutions to identified challenges within their communities. Speaking during the launch in Abuja, the Christian Aid Nigeria’s Country Director, Charles Usie, said that the project seeks to increase youth participation in community development and ensure youth become partners and leaders in development. “The fund is in recognition of the immense capacity of young people to address some of the growing developmental challenges across communities in Nigeria, if given the opportunity and required resources. We have therefore put this in place as part of our mandate to end poverty in Nigeria,” he said. According to the Chief Executive of CODE, Hamzat Lawal, the government must understand the growing importance and potential of young people and consider their contribution to nation building. He also urged the Federal Government to fulfil its obligation to the youth by increasing youth participation on all policies that affect young people, adding that increased financing, education and technical support for Nigerian youth as this can greatly impact on the future of the country. “Through funding from Christian Aid, CODE will sub-grant the selected organisations with a total of thirty thousand pounds (30,000) for their innovation to solve some of the difficult challenges limiting young people. While many projects of this nature seek to work with young people in the urban areas, the project will work with youths who are typically marginalised, excluded and who otherwise would have limited access to participation,” he said. Similarly, the CODE’s project lead, Lucy James, stated that young people have some of the most promising solutions to contemporary problems and we hope to learn from this, especially from those in the grassroots who have the capacity to act, utilizing their skills and ability to improve their own lives. It was recall that the following NGO will receive award, Foundation for Equitable and Sustainable Human Advancement (FESHA), Justice Development and Peace Caritas [JDPC], Women and children in support of community development initiative (WOCCI-Nig) also Hope For Family Development Initiative (HFDI). And, Spotlight for Transparency and Accountability Initiative levitates standard of transparency and accountability in government (subnational governments) through citizen participation in governance. This project seeks to empower young people across 17 LGAs in Yobe State through multidimensional Capacity building on how to hold government to account for their spending using digital technology and improve service delivery on Health, Education and WASH. Other include, Access to Learning and School (ATLAS) Initiative is creating a platform called Enriching Lives Through Education (ELiTE) to empower young girls and boys in Ikorodu LGA, aged 17-25 with essential life skills, functional skills and access to platforms for learning – ensuring access to inclusive and equitable quality education.