The Senate has gone on a 15 minutes closed session to enable it harmonise the approval of the sum of $22,798,446,773 federal government agencies and two states including Kaduna and Katsina states loan request. The committee report recommended that the Senate should allow the Federal Government agencies, Kaduna and Katsina states to get the $22,798,446,773 loan but expunge the $100 million request from Kogi state government. The lawmakers after series of arguments during the debate, approved the recommendations of the committee. This followed the presentation of a report of the committee on local and foreign debts 2016-2018 federal government external borrowing (rolling) plan by Sen Clifford Ordia. LEADERSHIP reports that the federal government’s ministries and agencies including some states of Kaduna, Kogi and Katsina had requested for an approval of the Senate to secure a loan of about $22.8 billion. But the committee’s report expunched the Kogi request stating that the state will benefit from the $500 million loan requested by the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) which the projects will be executed in the state. LEADERSHIP reports that while the federal government agencies were seeking for about $22.7 million dollars loan with 75 percent of it to come from the People’s Republic of China’s Exim Bank, Kaduna is seeking for $350 million loan from the World Bank while Katsina state is seeking for $110 million loan from Islamic Development Bank, an amount 20 to 50 percent could be grant if approved by the Senate. But the report which is still being debated by the lawamakers in an executive session, is causing serious controversy at the floor of the red chamber. Senator Gabriel Suswam (Benue North East) had earlier urged his colleagues to go into an executive session to deliberate before taking action, but the Senate president, Ahmad Lawan said they can’t go on executive session, insisting that they can only vote for or against the recommendation. Pressure from lawmakers forced the Senate leadership into accepting a-15 minutes executive session which is still ongoing.