The federal government recovered N549.09billion of stolen funds in less than three years since the implementation of the whistle blower policy. Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Prof Itse Sagay, stated this yesterday at the opening ceremony of a two-day workshop on entrenching whistleblowing policy in regulatory and revenue generating agencies in Nigeria organized by PACAC in collaboration with the African Centre for Media Information and Literacy (AFRICMIL). Sagay said the policy had been very successful not only in terms of assets recovered through information provided by whistle blowers but also for the revelations of the infinite variety of scams used by fraudulent Nigerians in swindling government and the people of Nigeria. According to him, despite the success of the policy, there is need to convert it into a whistle blowing act, adding that a whistle blowing law will encourage whistle blowers to come out with information that will lead to the recovery of assets. He said, “Leaving it as a policy will create the impression that the Federal Government is not bound to pay a reward for information leading to recoveries thus discouraging informants. “Second, a legal framework will contain provision not only for the protection of the informant’s identity but also in extreme cases for the giving such informants new identities for their protection” In his welcome address, Coordinator of AFRICMIL, Dr Chindo Onumah, said to achieve its goal of popularizing whistleblowing and making Nigerians see the need to adopt it as a strategic tool for reducing corruption, AFRICMIL has undertaken a number of activities in the last three years, including creating awareness through media and civil society engagements, stakeholders’ forum, training for staff of the Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA) as well as series of focused public education in cities across the six geo political zones of the country. Chindo said the bane of Nigeria’s development is corruption, just as he noted that a 2016 study by PricewaterhouseCoopers on the impact of corruption on Nigeria’s economy projected that 37 per cent of the country’s GDP could be lost to corruption by 2030 if it is not dealt with immediately. He continued: “This means worse poverty, and severe decline in other vital indices of human development. To address Nigeria’s increasing population burst and its attendant challenges, it is pertinent, therefore to comprehensively address its resource governance to ensure that whatever is available is well managed to carter for citizens’ demand. “Achieving that means greater transparency from government organisations responsible for government’s revenue or whose regulatory functions have direct bearing on economic growth”. On his part, the deputy director of MacArthur Foundation, Mr Oladayo Olaide, said if citizens are able to expose corrupt practices, government owes them a duty to be able to take actions when they are exposed. He said accounting officers across MDAs must become accountable for those resources and be brought to the fore, citing examples of a recent Auditor General’s report that 265 organisations failed to submit audited reports for the appropriation that was made to them in 2017 by the National Assembly.  ICPC Goes After MDAs Indicted By Audit Reports Meanwhile, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has commenced investigation into the activities of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) that were indicted by past Auditor-General’s reports, especially 2017 audit report. The anti-graft agency said it has started inviting the agencies concerned for questioning to answer for identified grey areas where impunity and financial improprieties were noticed. It however failed to mention the agencies that have been invited and those under investigation by the anti-graft agency. ICPC Chairman, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye, made the disclosure yesterday on the sidelines of a joint press briefing between him and Auditor-General for the Federation, Anthony Ayine in Abuja on a new partnership between both agencies to block revenue leakages and recover more funds for government. Owasanoye said, “Impunity escalates when nobody cares and nobody asks questions. We are making clear to the entire nation that we are going to be asking questions.” Most recent of such audit reports was that of 2017 which indicted several MDAs for financial wrongdoings bordering on irregularities, including improper records of transactions, unsubstantiated claims and outright non-report of financial statements for elapsed periods. For instance, the 2015 annual audit report indicted the office of Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) over alleged delays and failure to provide key documents needed to audit the IPPIS operations transaction accounts within January 1 and December 31, 2015. Others indicted by the 2017 audit report for gross violation of statutory financial reporting obligations include the Bureau of Public Enterprise (BPE), EFCC, National Assembly. Overall, audit found that the sum of N20,675,801,479.59 billion in the year under review was not remitted to the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the federal government by MDAs, according to the 2017 federal audit report. On whether the ICPC will also looking back to government establishments or agencies indicted by previous audit reports, especially the 2017 Auditor-General’s report, the ICPC Boss said, “We are already doing that. Some of the past reports of the Auditor-General align with our own findings. “After the initial contact by his letter, and our former meetings behind the scenes, he sent us specific report on some agencies and they have been invited to our office; we interacted with them and in some cases investigations are going on.”