Towards seeking God’s intervention to curtail the outbreak of the Covid-19 disease around the world, the founder of Loveworld Inc, known as Christ Embassy, Pastor Chris Oyakilohme and Pastor Benny Hinn have launched a “Special Global Prayer” to put a stop to the dreaded virus. The Global Prayer is slated to hold today Friday at 7pm and will be broadcasted Live on all the ministry’s online platforms. The platforms include, all LoveWorld Satellite Networks, LiveTV, Ceflix, CeLoveworld etc., and also on terrestrial broadcast stations – AIT, NTA, Silverbird Networks and ITV Abuja. A message from the founder and convener of the programme, Pastor Chris Oyakilohme, reads: “Thus Says The Spirit Of The Most High God! “These are the last days, these are the last times. For these are the times of the fulfillment of my words. “Do not be moved by the challenges of this age for they must come to pass. For they are not to harm you but to exalt you and to lift you high. Take my word with you in your heart and in your mouth, for it shall be your wisdom concerning the times. “As in the day of the great floods so are these days, your ark shall rise above the terror, it shall rise above economic hardship, in fact, it shall ride upon the evil; For the darker the night the more excellent your light will shine. Hear my voice in this time, it is your life and your light.” He said this is the set time to favor the church. “I beautify my church I adorn and decorate her. Stand on my word. It is your foundation and solid rock. “I have sent you supernatural help and will guide you into a place of strength. The ability and power of my Spirit will work in the yielded, mightily. You will win, victory after victory. “I have spoken to the land where you are concerning you. I have spoken to the city you live in concerning you. The noise of you has gone abroad. “I have sent you helpers, laborers and mighty men who will stand with you by my spirit. These will not break rank. They will be swifter than eagles and faster than horses for I have given them the speed of my spirit. They will not be weary and they shall not faint. “I have spoken concerning these people, that they are mine and are my battle axe and weapons of war, with you I will cut down the plans of satan. I have anointed you, be not dismayed, I have anointed you, be not discouraged. “I am with you till the very end. Set your gaze on me. You will not slip or fall. For I hold you by my mighty right hand.The hand of my righteousness. I will wrought my righteousness through you. Have no fear of your future for I have taken over your life to make you great and when I use you I will not leave you empty.
Follow me for I have made you great. Your joy is in me! Says the Spirit of the Lord.”