Chams Plc said it has continued to grow its business through strategic partnerships and introduction of innovative products and services that are tailored to the Nigerian and African markets. By focusing on the uniqueness of its customers, Chams has created bespoke customer-centric solutions that optimise business processes, particularly in the identity verification space. The company has further segmented its identity verification solutions in order to meet specific requirements of its broad customer base. For instance, under Chams’ unique products, customers including individuals, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) and Governments among others use various services to confirm identity of an employee or bulk verification. The identity management company prides itself in providing customised identity services, particularly for organisations, where updating, or validating the identity of individual’s information against the organisation’s customer database is key to maintaining data quality, validity and integrity. According to recent figures released by Nigeria Interbank Settlement Systems (NIBSS), more than 40 million Nigerians now have a Bank Verification Number (BVN). Both NIBSS and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) are working towards increasing this number rapidly to aide financial inclusion for all Nigerians. To compliment these initiatives, Chams has put in place an optimised platform for easier identity verification. Through the new platform, customers gain access to a wide range of digital identity verification services, all through a single platform. This platform is linked to recognised data sources such as the BBN Credit Bureaus and Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) and Driver’s Licenses, amongst others. The Group managing director, Chams, Gavin Young, stated that, “An example of an innovative identity verification solution we provide to State Governments, which has made a major difference in improving the lives of State Pensioners, is our pensioner verification app. Pensioners can verify themselves through taking a selfie, which we match against other facial records of the pensioner, including the State pension’s database.” Speaking further, Young said “Once verified, the pensioner is good to receive pension payments for another defined period. Prior to the app being introduced, pensioners were required to travel from their rural locations to a bank branch in order to verify themselves through fingerprint biometrics. This was often a long, costly and laborious exercise for the pensioner. “Now, they can perform the verification exercise through using either their own phone or another smartphone, from any location. This is just one way we at Chams are applying simple identity technology to specific customer needs and improving lives. “We are excited with this innovation as it applies across many industries where verifying the identity of individuals is required. In addition to the basic verification technology, we customise the solution for our customers by linking to their own database as part of the verification process.” According to him, the solution is extremely flexible in that it could either be offered via Chams’ app, a specific customized app, or though the customer’s own app as an add-on. Chams is a provider of innovative and intelligent business solutions in Nigeria with over 34 years’ experience in providing cutting-edge technology solutions. Chams has built a robust, secure and adaptable customer-centric platform that drives identity management, payment and verification for both public and private sector initiatives and businesses.