Dr Safiya Tanko, a medical doctor by profession, practicing in the hot bed of Boko Haram insurgency, the North-East, has a first-hand experience of the suffering caused the people by the insurgents. She is our Woman of Substance this week. Background I was born in Kaduna to the family of Alhaji Mohammed Tanko and Hajiya Lubabatu Tanko.  I am the first of four children. Shortly after I was born, the family moved to Jos in Plateau State. This was initially work related, as it was a transfer. My parents fell in love with the weather, the then ambience of the town, and decided to stay. My father left the job that took him to Jos, and travelled a lot, but he did not move us because he did not want to tamper with our education. My parents are very particular about education, because they keep saying till date that one thing they are grateful to Jos for, is their children’s education. As a child I remember my parents taking me round Jos, seeking an appropriate primary school, and they eventually settled for Plateau Private School. I remember them getting the entrance form for Air Force Girls Military School, Jos, and the talks between them, how my Mum thought the school was going to be too tough for me, and how my dad was all for it. I eventually went to the school, and yes it was tough. I mean going to a military school where we wore Khaki as school uniform for six years, handled weapons, had military drill, were disciplined the military way, alongside our academics was not supposed to be easy. But, if I were given a hundred more lives to live, I would do it again. I learned endurance, discipline, dedication, all which I use today. Yes, from that school, I learnt not to discriminate based on tribe or religion nor based on social class. We never saw ourselves as different. I was not sure of what I wanted to become as a child, I only knew to study. My parents guided me to study Medicine. I did not achieve the UTME cutoff point University of Jos had for Medicine. The scores I had could gain me an admission to study something else. I remember telling my parents I did not want to study Medicine again, all I wanted was to be in the University. After all, a lot of my friends had gotten admission with their first UTME results. They insisted, I sat the exams again. I did get the admission, and of course that was where the real deal started.  Early Career After all the study in Medical school, it was time to come to terms with the real world. Even though, I still worked under superiors, it was challenging. You usually do not know what case a patient will be presenting with for you to revise, yet you are expected to give the best care to that patient. Also, working in a public hospital meant there was always work, as you know in our environment, the doctors are grossly less than the patient needs. Sometimes we would work and forget we needed to eat. I would be the most junior doctor on ground with the least experience and that meant a lot of work, while I still learnt. Then, there was also the academic part, where one has to study really hard. The studying does not end.  Challenges The challenges are numerous, but when you are a doctor, and the life of your patient depends on you, that alone is a huge load on your head. Add to that, the socioeconomic status of most of the patients presenting to a public health care facility. Or even lack of or inadequate infrastructure to cater for such patients. It happens a lot, a patient comes with a condition, but cannot afford care, and there is nothing you can do about it. The poverty level is alarming. A lot of times, what is needed to help the patient has to be bought from outside, and the patient cannot afford it. It is very disheartening for any Health care provider, to not be able to help a patient because he has no money. It is not a challenge we have been able to overcome yet though. It requires a lot of stakeholders.  Doctors without borders I worked briefly with Doctors Without Borders which is an NGO that offers humanitarian services. Then, when the ethno-religious crisis was at its peak in Jos, and movement was restricted, Christians were not safe working in Muslim dominated areas and vice versa. I was employed as a Muslim female doctor to work in one of the mobile clinics they had in the Muslim dominated areas. It was interesting, and I loved the work, because the services offered were totally free. The women came in their numbers, because they felt more comfortable being attended to by a female like them, and so they opened up on a lot of their health problems. We could solve most of them, run tests for free, prescribe drugs for free as well. It was fulfilling. I currently work at an Accident and Emergency in a tertiary center in the North East of Nigeria. It is a mad house so to say, because usually patients coming in are in need of urgent intervention to save life. But, it is fulfilling when you see a patient in a near death state, you have to do whatever needs to be done to keep that patient alive, and you succeed. The patients and their relatives turn you into a small god. Though, we still lose some that might have presented late, whom intervention could not save. Working in the Accident and Emergency leaves me with lots of experiences that I cannot even choose one. For instance, I come in direct contact with the happenings in the society, because patients present there in their rawest forms. I work in the North East, and the hospital I work in has catered for the needs of victims of Boko Haram insurgents. We see soldiers coming directly from Sambisa forest, with disturbing injuries in their numbers. Sometimes their corpses. So, I know how bad the situation is. An Almajiri whose Mallam tied his hands, till they got so bad they had to be amputated was first brought to us. So, we know how bad The Almajiri practice is. We are not even talking domestic violence, child abuse and all the other problems ravaging our society.  Philanthropy Philanthropy to me, means giving back to society. I do that in my own little way, when for instance I am in a position to assist either financially or otherwise. Then, I belong to associations that offer certain services such as free medical outreaches and offsetting certain medical bills or paying school fees for some children and all. We fund these programs from our voluntary contributions.  Mentoring Mentoring means having someone who has walked a certain path you want to walk guide one in life. It could be a life, career, political, financial mentor. One can have more than one mentor, depending on the need. I have different mentors actually, depending on my need. My life mentors are my parents, because they know me, have my best interest, have been with me the longest. Career mentors too, are there to serve their purpose. I also have political mentors for some medical politics I do. I do not have permanent mentors in certain aspects, because sometimes the relationship with a mentor might not serve the need, and a change is necessary.  Inspiration I am inspired by success stories, and of course failures too. Successes are encouraging, make one feel like I can do it as well. Failures make you realise what needs to be avoided.  Legacy I would want to be remembered as someone who lived her life fully, with lots of impact on others.           