Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Speaker Lagos State House Of Assembly Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa on Wednesday stressed the need for collaboration and understanding between the executive and legislative arms of government, saying it will bring about seamless governance and efficient service delivery. The duo spoke at the opening of the  3- day 15th Executive/Legislative parley organised by Lagos State Government Office of Civic Engagement tagged,’’ harmonious Relationship Among Various Arms Of Government at Ikota-Lekki area of the state. The parley have lawmakers from the Lagos state Assembly, Senators and House of Representatives member from Lagos state, state exco members and state APC party leaders. The governor said the main objective of the parley is appraise governance in the state and how both arms of government can continue to collaborate to realize the greater Lagos dream of all Lagosians. “It is a working relationship that will bring about development and governance that will be seamless for our people and at the end of the day we would have a progressive and hitch free understanding of ourselves once we realize that the roles and responsibilities are different. Fielding questions from journalists, Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mudashiru Obasa thanked the governor for sustaining the parley, saying it is a platform for a harmonious working relationship “where information, understanding and collaboration is a major factor in all that we are doing. He said the parley will enable them to continue to build on what they have achieved, “we are supportive of the executive arm and we will continue to do that to ensure we serve our people, but that does not mean we will turn a blind eye to something we feel we must look into”, Obasa said. The speaker said the state Assembly needs the collaboration of the state representatives at the National Assembly in its bid to amend the constitution to achieve some of the things it has been clamouring for, like: special status for Lagos, state police and a transportation system that will allow the state and neighbouring states to connect together, “we need them to push that through”, Obasa said. In her address, the Special Adviser, Office of Civic Engagement, Princess Aderemi Adebowale said the state has been very fortunate to have been fortunate to have been governed by passionate leaders, saying the gathering is designed to share experiences and explore inherent benefits in running an inclusive government devoid of rancour. 