Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo—Olu ordered civil servants from grade level one to twelve to work from home for fourteen days to contain the spread of deadly coronavirus in the state rocking the global community. The governor who expressed worry over increasing rate of confirmed cases in the state at a press conference held in Lagos House Marina, urged the private sector to bench their non –essential services staff to effectively tackle the pandemic disease. He said it has become necessary for him to address the residents again because of the confirmation of an additional six cases within 72 hours he briefed on the disease bringing the total in Lagos State to nineteen confirmed cases. He said, ‘’First let me say that these confirmations are evidence the system is working, that we are actively and met tracking and testing suspected cases. Let me also reiterate that all confirmed cases have been isolated at the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Yaba’’ Sanwo-Olu added that the state government has been working closely with the Federal Government, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). the World Health Organization (WHO). and the private sector. to halt the spread of this disease. The governor who hailed Lagosians for obeying his directive on large congregation of people above 50 people, said the state government would arrest anyone, group found to be frustrating government’s efforts. Sanwo-Olu pointed out that the directive was not meant to deprive anybody of his or her freedom, saying,’’ Many mosques were closed on Friday and many churches shut down today.’’ He said, ‘’In addition to all the previous directives issued so far. I am now hereby directing all public officers in the entire unified public service from Grade Levels 1 to 12 which constitutes 70 percent of the entire public service workforce to stay at home from Monday 23″ of March 2020. for 14 days in the first instance. ‘’We will review this as time goes on. Members of the public are advised to refrain from visiting public offices. and to transact as much business as is possible through the telephone and online channels’’. ‘’This stay at-home order does not affect medical personnel. Fire Service. LASEMA. LAWMA and other first respondents and essential services. We are working to ramp up our capacity to take on new cases as they’re confirmed; other Health facilities will. In due time be deployed to support the Mainland Infectious Diseases Hospital.’’ The governor added that the state government would set up more facilities in Yaba to contain a likely upsurge in Coronavirus cases, saying more health workers were being trained and retired health personnel were also being put on notice that they may be recalled to serve in these trying times.