Five days after the Supreme Court stopped his quest to return as the governor of Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha has insisted that Governor Hope Uzodinma stole his mandate. Ihedioha made the declaration in a statement he signed and issued to newsmen in Owerri, the Imo State capital. Ihedioha stated that the mandate to govern Imo State given to him was brazenly stolen from him, though he failed to mention Governor Uzodinma in the statement. The erstwhile Governor had prayed the Supreme Court to reverse itself and return him as the Governor of Imo State, as against Senator Hope Uzodinma. Ihedioha said contrary to claims of desperation levelled against him, his concern was the miscarriage of justice, and the implications the judgement could have for the future of Nigeria’s democracy and the right of the electorate to have their votes count. According to him, “If institutions that are critical to the entrenchment of rule of law could thwart the wishes of the people in a cynical manner, where lies the future of our democracy? That was why I sought a review of the Supreme Court judgement”, he explained. The former governor maintained that though his request was rejected, the dissenting judgement delivered by Justice Cletus Nweze, has vindicated his stand, even as he prayed that history and posterity will be kind to him. Ihedioha warned those he said were rejoicing over what he described as political fraud against Imo people to note that no evil remains unpunished. He said, “To those who are rejoicing about their successful political fraud at the expense of Imo people, as well as their collaborators, let me leave them with the immortal words of the late journalist, Dele Giwa: ‘No evil deed will go unpunished; any evil done by man to man will be redressed; if not now then certainly later; if not by man, then by God for the victory of evil over good is temporary’.  We believe that God will render the ultimate judgement. He has been with us through this peaceful struggle. And our future is in His hands”. The former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives stated that it had been a great privilege to superintend over Imo State as the Governor, saying he is proud to have been the “ Recipient of their genuine mandate. I will forever cherish the support, solidarity and cooperation given to me during my tenure. My belief in the ultimate triumph and supremacy of the will of the people remains intact. I pray God to bless and reward all those who stood firm on the path of justice and fair play”, he said. He stated that never had Imo people been so united and committed to a reversal by the apex court, noting that people sacrificed time, resources, and endeavour for the just cause saying “You prayed, fasted, marched, protested and even cried”. Ihedioha commended Imo people for their demand for justice and rejection of oppression saying “ The people of Imo State collectively rose to demand for justice and fairness. Imo people rose up in defence of their right to elect leaders of their choice. Our people resoundingly rejected oppression and power grab, defied imposition, injustice and tyranny. I salute Imo people for this display of courage in the face of oppressive state power”. The erstwhile governor described the verdict of the apex court as injustice saying “many people who could not bear the illogic of turning number four to number one on the basis of a fraudulently procured result, and appealed to the Supreme Court to save itself and our judiciary”. Ihedioha who did not give insight into his next moves, said he accepts the situation saying “On a personal note, I accept trials and difficulties as part of life as they enable one to become wiser and more sympathetic to the plights of others in similar circumstances. But I am firmly resolved never to give up on the struggle for a better Imo State. And for a better governed Nigeria”. The former governor was full of appreciation to Nigerians of all walks of life, across ethnic, religious and political divides, senior citizens, journalists, civil societies, ordinary men and women of good conscience, who added their voice to condemn what he described as the injustice done in his case.