43 Quarantined In Plateau Amidst growing worries among Nigerians over coronavirus spread, President Muhammadu Buhari has cautioned against unnecessary panic,especially over the first index case. He, however, expressed sadness over the recent confirmation of a case of Covid-19 infection outbreak in Lagos State. The president made his feelings known in a statement issued by his senior special assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja, yesterday. Buhari noted that the carrier of the virus arrived Nigeria in spite of the ardent efforts of the government regarding preparedness and response measures put in place in the nation’s borders and beyond. He, however, commended the Federal Ministry of Health and other relevant agencies which diligence and efficiency enabled the case to be detected, diagnosed and isolated quickly. The president noted the swift measures being taken to identify and follow up on those with whom the index patient had contact with and commended the Federal Ministry of Health and governments of Lagos and Ogun States as well as other relevant agencies for their responses to the reported incident. The president further called for vigilance on the part of all citizens and the appropriate government agencies. Buhari further urged Nigerians not to panic about the news of the first case of Covid-19 in the country, saying “undue alarm would do us more harm than good. ”Instead, Nigerians should strictly observe the advisories disseminated by the Ministry of Health, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and the World Health Organisation (WHO) on the best way to prevent infection. This information is being broadcast in all available media by the Federal Ministry of Information,” he said.  Address Nigerians Now, PDP Tells Buhari Before the president issued the statement last night, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had expressed worry at President Buhari’s delay in addressing the country on what it called ”heightening national anxieties” since the detection of the deadly COVID-19 in the country. The party described as absolute leadership failure that the president had not considered it imperative to show concern by directly addressing a panic-stricken nation even in the face of escalated national trepidations and conflicting reports. In a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP charged Buhari to wake up and treat the COVID-19, deservedly, as a looming national disaster, which requires a prompt and full presidential involvement at the top level. The party noted that ”at a critical time like this, Mr. President ought to be at the forefront in shouldering responsibility, stressing that a presidential address would have reassured the people, reinforced government direction and multi-sectoral intervention for concerted effort to contain the scourge.” 43 Quarantined In Plateau To prevent a possible outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19), the Plateau State government has quarantined all the 43 persons who recently had contacts with some Chinese who returned from their country to the state. The isolation of the contacts from Wase local government area was disclosed yesterday by the commissioner for Health, Dr Nimkong Ndam. He said the step was taken to ensure proper investigation of the residents to forestall the spread of COVID-19 to the state. According to him, the 43 persons had contact with four Chinese miners, who recently returned to the Plateau from China en-route Addis Ababa in Ethiopia. Ndam, who addressed a press conference in Jos, the state capital, yesterday, explained that the isolation would last for 14 days to enable the state government check if they would manifest symptoms of the virus. He said that Governor Simon Lalong was informed by the Nigerian Immigration Services (NIS) of three Chinese nationals, who arrived in Nigeria and were heading to Jos, which led to the setting up of a team of health officials and security agents to monitor them. Ndam said: “One Chinese national arrived on Tuesday, February 25th while three others arrived in Nigeria on Wednesday. They came from China through Addis Ababa Airport to Abuja Airport, where they were screened by health officials.” The commissioner said the Chinese who came on Tuesday was the leader of the mining team who reside in Wase town while the other two live in Bakin Kaya, a mining site outside Wase town. He explained that the leader had been providing social services such as water supply to members of the community where he resides, but was asked to suspend the services pending the conclusion of the ongoing investigation, adding that a total of 25 persons who had contact with him had been isolated. “The other three Chinese live in a compound with 13 Nigerians, who also have been isolated pending investigations, making a total of 18 persons isolated in Bakin Kaya,” he said. The commissioner said the travel documents of the Chinese nationals were valid, adding that the state has isolation units in Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) and Plateau Specialist Hospitals to respond to any outbreak of the disease in Plateau. Ndam said that the Health Ministry was working with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for the supply of vital items and other support services in case any of the suspects turned positive of the virus. He appealed to all Plateau residents to remain calm and go about their normal businesses as there was no confirmed Coronavirus case in the state. Ndam said that the state’s health officials and World Health Organisation (WHO) personnel were sensitising members of the Wase community on preventive measures and symptoms of the disease. He said the ministry would distribute Information Education Communication (IEC) materials, to the public and produce more jingles for enlightenment of the disease, while urging the media to support it in its enlightenment campaigns. The first case of COVID-19 in Nigeria was confirmed on Thursday, February 27 of an Italian, who works for a vendor that provides services for the Lafarge Cement Factory in Ewekoro in Ogun State. He has since been isolated in Lagos while all the 39 persons who had contact with him have been quarantined by the Ogun State government. The figure of the isolated persons, who are mostly workers of Lafarge rose from the initial 28 to 39 on Saturday. Since its outbreak in China in December 2019, the disease has killed over 2,000 persons in China only and spread to other countries. Doctors Urge Strict Adherence To WHO Guidelines Meanwhile, some medical doctors have urged stakeholders and the general public to adhere strictly to WHO guidelines for preventing and containing the virus outbreak. They also called for massive awareness campaigns to educate the general public on actions that could lead to the contraction of the disease and the preventive measures. Also yesterday, Nigeria’s Representative in WHO, Dr Clement Peter, charged the media to ensure the dissemination of truthful and helpful information on the disease. Peter said that there was need for the creation of massive awareness campaigns because a lot of people had not received the right information about the coronavirus disease. According to him, at a time like this, there were bound to be lots of rumours and false information as already observed in the social media. He said: “People should be mindful of the information they circulate on the social media; false information that triggers panic should not be encouraged. The current medical emergency of coronavirus disease cannot be controlled by fear or panic. “The media is a vital instrument at this time and it should not allow itself to be used to disseminate false information or information that may be adding ‘salt to the injury’. The WHO stipulated preventive measures are clear; everyone should uphold the hygienic practices of regular hand washing with soap and water. “Both private and public health facilities should conform with expected universal precautions when attending to all clients. The general public should ensure that any individual that is sick with fever must promptly seek medical attention in recognised health facilities or report to the government,” Peter said. He urged the federal government to ensure the capacity to detect, treat, manage or even refer any case of the disease at any time. Similarly, a medical imaging scientist, Dr Livinus Abonyi, has urged workers at all entry points of the country to be extra vigilant. Abonyi, a lecturer in the Department of Medical Radiography, Faculty of Clinical Sciences at the University of Lagos College of Medicine, appealed to the government to ensure that anybody entering into Nigeria is quarantined and monitored for at least five days to be sure that he or she is certified free of the virus. He said that the quarantine mechanism should not be limited to people from the established coronavirus index countries but extended to everyone coming into Nigeria, irrespective of his or her originating nation. Abonyi further called for continuity of efforts in the tracing of contact persons of the Italian coronavirus patient, stressing that tracking them was a first step in preventing the spread of the virus in Nigeria. The medical expert declared that the current situation in Nigeria calls for extreme practice of personal hygiene by everyone at all times. In his contribution, the medical director, MercyWay Medical Centre, Ejigbo, Lagos, Dr Omogbohun Patrick, called for grassroots sensitisation on the symptoms of the coronavirus disease. Patrick said that a lot of people particularly at the rural areas have not gotten adequate information about the symptoms or preventive measures of the disease. He said: “Information is key in a development like this; if there is lack of information and people are ignorant of the precautions; they can easily fall victim.” But when people have first-hand information on the symptoms and prevention of the disease; it becomes easy to manage and nobody will die as a result of it.’’ He, however, decried the scarcity and hikes in the price of facemasks at this period when they were needed in the management of the virus.