The recent Ward and LGA congresses of the PDP in Delta State may have ushered in a culture of civilised politics in the state. INNEH BARTH writes. Politics in Delta State is becoming more friendly as the usual bickering which is associated with party politics is now gradually eroding going by the way and manner with which the ruling Peoples Democratic Party PDP, in the state conducted its Ward and Local Government congresses. The emergence of “new breed” politicians is also changing the face of politics in State. Today, politics is now all-embracing and the players are reaping the gains of politics. Political aides are enjoying politics, unlike the days when the leaders were feeding fat on the dues of their followers. The just concluded Wards and LGAs Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) congresses in the state, are indeed a harbinger not only to members of the party but the entire political pundits. This is because there has never been a time when the PDP family in the state conducted themselves in a manner befitting of a true sportsman. This time around they conducted themselves in such a brotherly manner that bequeathed hopes to the young generations. The various leaders in their respective domains first met as one family to analyse prospects and capacities of various aspirants and came out with what is regarded as consensus candidates. It was done in such a manner that both the winners and the losers have cause to work as one indivisible family. Though, that is not to say that there was no intrigues. In some LGAs scheming that heralded the congresses, stunned most of the political analysts who thought that election is still won at the beck of those who claimed to be political leaders. In Isoko North LGA, the party elected a total of 18 officers by affirmation as the new local government executive committee members with Prince Godwin Ogorugba reelected as the chairman. The exercise which was conducted by Mr Appearance Esiso as Returning Officer, was also monitored by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC). Mr Esiso who spoke after the exercise, said he was pleased with the peaceful conduct of the congress and commended leaders of the party for their good leadership. He explained that the conduct of the Congress was in line with the provisions of the PDP constitution and described the exercise as peaceful and well organised. Speaking during the congress, Member representing Isoko Federal Constituency, Hon Leo Ogor said he was pleased with the outcome of the congress and thanked party faithful for their support over the years. “Today is a great day and I thank God for keeping me alive to witness this day. Let me thank you all for being here and for your support over the years. At the appropriate time, we will definitely sit down and celebrate and when I celebrate people will hear that I am celebrating. “For those I have offended, let them forgive me as I have also forgiven all those who offended me. Let us be one and remain united as God has destined us,” he said. In his remark, Majority Leader of the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon Tim Owhefere congratulated the new executive and urged them to work hard to deliver all candidates of the party just as the immediate past executive performed wonderfully well. “We thank God for a wonderful and peaceful Congress from the Ward to the Local Government Area. We observed all our party guidelines and we now have a new executive. “I must thank our former executive for delivering all our party candidates just as I advise the new executive to emulate the activities of the past executive. “Let me assure those who couldn’t return to the executive to be patient with us as we are compiling names of those who didn’t make it and we will empower them. I am sure that Isoko North will continue to take first in this kind of activities,” he said. Ogorugba, in his acceptance speech, commended leaders and party faithful for the peaceful conduct, saying that it was devoid of rancour. For the first time in the political history of Oshimili South LGA, the Congress saw the re-election of a soft-spoken youthful leader, Ogbueshi Dada Okonji, whose activities these few years he joined politics, have proved that those who are imbued with wisdom and understanding make good leaders. Ogbueshi Okonji was returned unopposed through a motion moved by the member representing the Oshimili south Constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Honourable  Shedrack Rapu and seconded by former Speaker of the State Legislature, Honourable Peter Onwusanya. Somadina Anwasia emerged as the LGA Deputy Chairman of the party, along with 16 others who formed the executive body of the PDP in an election witnessed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agents and pressmen. Incidentally, the congress was between two popular youth leaders, Ogbueshi Dada Okonji and Mr. Dada Okolo who contested for the chairman, and the most popular of them, Ogbueshi Okonji emerged at the end. Since his emergence, peace and unity have prevailed in the party that was almost at the verge of division before the congress. It is important to point out that the election that saw the emergence of Okonji, was witnessed by well known political leaders in Oshimili South Local Government Area. It was first of its kind in the history of congress in the area as highly placed politicians teamed up to support one candidate as the party chairman. It is on record that the political profiles of Okonji grew stronger in the build up to 2015 general elections, following his ability to galvanise divergent political leanings to deliver the PDP in all positions during the 2015 elections. One of the political leaders once said that no politician has staked so much money and commitment to work for the PDP during the governorship, senatorial, House of Representatives and House of Assembly elections in 2015 like Okonji. It was a known fact that he hosted and sponsored all political groups that worked for the various PDP candidates during the said elections. Besides, he preached peace and unity in addition to reaching out to well known traditional chiefs, opinion leaders and politicians who before then were disenchanted with activities of some pretentious die-hard PDP members. Therefore, it was not surprising that politicians in the area saw where the pendulum will swing, before taking decision on who to vote for during the congress. The party chairman who addressed party faithful after the congress,  thanked members of the PDP in the local government area, the Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, the state party chairman, Barr. Kingsley Esiso and all those who made his return possible, promising that he will operate an open door policy and consult all stakeholders in decision making. He also urged the local government and ward executives to consult widely before taking any decision, stressing that the executives would run a financially transparent and prudent administration just as he promised to constitute a reconciliation committee to reconcile aggrieved members who left the party for one reason or the other. The Chairman of Oshimili South Local Government Council, Hon Uche Osadebe who congratulated Okonji on his emergence as the Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Oshimili South, in the just concluded election, said his return was an affirmation of a job well done in his first tenure. “As they say, ‘one good turn deserves another’, is the story that played out at Oshimili South Arcade arena where the PDP Congress took Place. “For a young man that did marvellously well in his first tenure, giving him another opportunity to serve the party is highly commendable and I want to assure him that the Council will surely support his administration and the party when called upon,” Osadebe stated. Osadebe however appealed to Okonji not to deviate from his good works and transparent character exhibited in the first tenure. “His sterling qualities and the love for the Party cannot be questioned; hence he was returned as the chairman of the party,” Osadebe added. For Ika North East Local Government Area, governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s LGA, the party faithful elected Hon. Chuks Agbomah to lead them at the party congress held at Owa Modern Primary School, Boji Boji Owa. Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa who participated in the congress, tasked the new executives on party cohesion and to work hard toward sustaining the existing peace and stability in the party. The governor while commending the past local government executives of the party for a good job, stressed the importance of a united PDP, urging the new local government executives to tap into the experience of the past executive in building a peaceful party for all. Hon. Agbomah on his part, sued for cooperation from party faithful and from various stakeholders towards building a united family and in meeting challenges ahead. He called on members to return to their wards and contribute their quota towards the growth and development of the PDP family across Ika North East Local Government Area. Also speaking, Chief Godwin Ogadi, the immediate past chairman of the party in the area, lauded the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for support during his tenure as chairman of the party, saying that he enjoyed a rare opportunity created by the governor in discharging his duties. He pledged his continued support to the party and the new executives while promising to be available whenever the need arose. However, the congresses in the state were not entirely crisis free, as some of the LGAs witnessed pockets of violence due to irreconcilable differences amongst political gladiators. For instance, in Ndokwa East LGA there were parallel congresses leading to the emergence of two executives. But, the worst incident occured in Isoko South LGA where at least ten persons including a former councillor sustained injuries, when armed youths invaded the venue of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) congress for Erowha/Umeh Ward 08. The injured ex-councillor, Hon. Saturday Eneriakpoze, and others were later hospitalized following injuries inflicted on them by the rampaging youths allegedly hired by opposing camp in the struggle for the soul of the party in the area. The youths which allegedly on the instruction of a prominent PDP leader in the LGA, decided to scuttle the exercise when the candidate favoured by the PDP was turned down by leaders and members of the party in the ward. “On discovering that leaders and members of Umeh PDP ward 08 were against the anointed candidate of the PDP leader who is currently holding a strategic position in the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa-led government, instructed thugs to disrupt the exercise. “The attack immediately brought the congress to a halt. The congress could not be concluded because the youths vowed to kill anyone seen around the venue.” Generally, there is a new culture of politics in Delta State especially within the ranks and files of the PDP. However, could it be attributed to the growing strength of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), that is bent on snatching power from them? Or could it be the peaceful disposition of the state governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa? Whatever the reasons might be, it is highly commendable that political parties can conduct themselves in such a harmonious manner to elect officials.