The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HCSF), Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, has reiterated her commitment to give focal and priority attention to capacity building in the federal civil service. A press statement signed, by the Director, Information, Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs. Olawunmi Ogunmosunle reveals that the head of service reiterated this commitment during her address at the maiden meeting with Permanent Secretaries (service wide), Accountant General of the Federation, Auditor-General for the Federation and Surveyor-General of the Federation, in Abuja. While promising that capacity building will be done both at the level of respective Ministries and at service-wide level especially on core values and code of ethics of the Civil Service, Yemi-Esan also mentioned other areas to be given priority to include Performance Management and stability of the service. “The new Performance Management System to be put in place will replace the biased and often abused Annual Performance Evaluation Report (APER) and it will increase productivity and quality of service delivery”. Furthermore, the service will continue to reward and recognize excellence, innovation and dedication. Successful implementation of an institutionalized reward and recognition system, will produce well-motivated, disciplined, skilled and accountable Civil Servants”, she said. She therefore solicited for the continued cooperation, collaboration as well as camaraderie of the body of Permanent Secretaries to elevate the Federal Civil Service to meet global standard that exhibits superior performance in the implementation of government policies and programmes, as well as in the delivery of services for the well-being of Nigerians and the country’s economic development. The HCSF furthermore called for their support and cooperation at this decisive period to help deliver on President Muhammadu Buhari Administration’s key priority areas; and continue to work as a team to make the anticipated difference to bequeath a better Civil Service. The Permanent Secretary, Ecological Fund, Office of Secretary to Government of the Federation, Dr Habiba Lawal, on behalf of the body of Permanent Secretaries (service wide) promised that the Permanent Secretaries will give the Head of Service the needed cooperation and support for the success of the office and the service.