The Lagos State Government on Tuesday said another case of the deadly Coronavirus has been recorded in Lagos, bringing to three the cases recorded in Nigeria. The state’s Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi who disclosed this at a press briefing on COVID-19 in Lagos urged passengers on Flight 75 to embark on self –isolation to avert spread of the disease. Abayomi said the new case is a passenger on Flight BA 75, who flew from United Kingdom (UK) to Lagos on the 13th of March, 2020. “She is a 30 year old Nigerian woman, member of Non- Government Organization community, who travelled from the (UK) to Lagos on 13th of March 2020,” he added. Abayomi said she is now in isolation and receiving care at the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, adding that contact tracing of all passengers and all those who may have come in contact with this latest case has commenced. The commissioner however urged Passengers on flight BA 75 to embark on a 14 day self-isolation, to halt the spread of the virus in Nigeria. He said, “If you are a passenger on flight BA 75 that arrived in Lagos on 13th March, 2020, stay at home and isolate yourself for 14 days. If you develop symptoms, please contact the Lagos state ministry of health, the federal ministry of health or the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC).” Giving an update on suspected cases, the commissioner said, “Right now, we have three suspected cases in the facility. They arrived yesterday in the evening and we are monitoring them. “One of them is a Nigerian traveller from the United State who returned to Lagos. He has been well up until yesterday. We admitted him last night, he is doing relatively well. So we will know if he has the virus or not. “We have another traveller from the UK who came to Lagos this month. We have taken his sample and we will run that test today. “The last suspected case is a traveller who came in from India through Cairo. He developed fever two days ago. We decided that we will quarantine him because his fever is quite high and he is coughing. We can’t say for now if he has the virus, until the result is out.” 