If not checked, by 2050, plastics and other marine litters will be more than fishes and other aquatic animals in the ocean. But, to forestall that, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA, put in place a Maritime Action Plan to check the menace. YUSUF BABALOLA reports There are lots of plastics in the world’s oceans and report have shown that if the world keep producing (and failing to properly dispose of) plastics at predicted rates, plastics in the ocean will outnumber fishes by 2050. According to the Washington Post, worldwide use of plastics has increased 20-fold in the past 50 years, and it is expected to double again in the next 20 years. By 2050, plastics will be more than three times as much as it was in 2014. It is believed that more than 70 per cent of the plastics produce in the world are lost to the world’s waterways and other infrastructure, thereby wounding up in the stomachs of more than half the world’s sea turtles and nearly all of its marine birds. Once it gets washed into waterways, the damage caused by plastics’ presence costs about $13 billion annually in losses for the tourism, shipping and fishing industries. This disrupts marine ecosystems and threatens food security for people who depend on subsistence fishing, and all plastics in the water aren’t good for the animals trying to live there.  Strategic Action Plans However, looking at the threat to shipping and the ecosystem, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), has produced an action plan, which envisions the elimination of land-based sources of marine litter within five years. This is because Nigeria, with a coastline of 853kilometres, is prevalent with indentations that create easy settlement for Marine Litter. And the floating litter, largely from upland, do interfere with luminosity of marine habitat depleting oxygen supply and causing ecosystem imbalance.  Marine birds and mammals also eat up plastic particles resulting in biodiversity loss and contamination of the food chain thereby endangering and affecting human health. Marine litter constitutes significant threat to marine environment thereby affecting navigation, aquatic life and eco-tourism. Because of the threat, NIMASA in collaboration with the National Assembly and the Federal Ministry of Environment are putting the finishing touches to a bill meant to prohibit the production of plastics, which pollutes the environment. NIMASA also launched the Maritime Action Plan for Marine Litters and Plastics Management in Nigeria and at the same time, constituted a National Task Force (NTF) that will work together to promote and initiate measures and actions at local, national and regional levels to prevent and reduce marine litter. The national task force will also drive the implementation of the Maritime Action Plan for Marine Litter and Plastic (MAP-ML+P) Management in Nigeria and be responsible for coordinating marine litter prevention and control activities. The objectives of the national taskforce includes to sustainably reduce marine litter in Nigeria Maritime domain and to ensure cleaner and healthy oceans and seas. To create awareness, promote education and research to engender behavioural change on effect of marine litter as well as to strengthen engagement and partnership with stakeholders in reducing marine litter. Theirs are to promote waste prevention and sustainable waste management, drive Nigeria’s blue economy for sustainable growth, drive establishment of policies and legislative framework to prevent marine litter and to facilitate effective implementation of the Maritime Action Plan.  Collaboration With Lawmakers A member of the Senate Committee on Marine Transport, Senator Tolulope Odebiyi, the drafter of the proposed bill, who represented the chairman of the committee, Senator Danjuma Goje, said the bill would be harmonised with inputs from the Federal Ministry of Environment to make a holistic law that would impose tough sanctions on the production of organic polymers. Odebiyi stressed that the National Assembly was solidly behind the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) in the presentation and implementation of the action plan, which envisions the elimination of land-based sources of marine litter within five years. Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Environment, Hon Johnson Oghuma, also stressed the lower chamber’s commitment to a cleaner environment. Oghuma said the House was always prepared to assist the executive in the implementation of government policies. The former director-general of NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside at the conference lamented that Nigeria was among the 20 countries generating more than 80 per cent of the land-based plastic wastes that end up in the oceans. Dakuku said the event was organised to raise public awareness about the deleterious effects of marine pollution and chart a national roadmap on solution to the menace. “I am happy NIMASA has taken the lead in ensuring that our waterways and all our water bodies are clean, safe, and a vital source of economic activity for us in this country,” Odebiyi stated. He added, “I drafted a bill with regard to plastic pollution and proliferation of plastics in the country. The issue is getting to an alarming state. “NIMASA has taken the lead. But this is the backend of it. We also have to look at the frontend. We are spending billions of naira tiding up the environment; we also have people making billions of naira contributing to this menace. That is where the bill is aiming. You cannot continue to generate pollution, clog our waterways, cause erosion, flooding and all kinds of things, and some people are making money, knowing fully well that their product is contributing to the pollution.” The senator also said, “The Senate is very much interested in this issue. We see the environment as a vital economic resource for us in this country. We will be working with NIMASA, Federal Ministry of Environment, and all the other agencies.” The House Committee on Environment chairman spoke in a similar vein. “We are ready, and by the grace of God, I represent the Speaker in the Committee on Environment. Every legislation on the environment is jealously guarded by the committee. I urge everybody, wherever you are, behave like NIMASA, help us to save our environment,” Oghuma stated. Dakuku had prefaced his welcome address with two grisly true-life stories that underscored the dangers of marine litter and the need for urgent action. He then stated, “We all know that solutions to this global challenge are multiple and require consideration of a systematic approach to the various sources generating the pollution, both land- and sea-based contributors, and a combination of intervention in different sectors and at different levels.” He said the action plan was aimed at setting a national roadmap for tackling pollutions, especially from shipping related activities; identifying specific actions that need to be taken by different parties to eliminate marine litter and plastics; strengthening stakeholder collaborations in tackling marine litter and plastics pollution; and establishing a template for monitoring progress in the fight against marine litter and plastics pollution.  Complementing IMO Action Plan Other objectives of the action plan, according to Dakuku, are to operationalise and complement the IMO Action Plan on Marine Litter from Ships; and enhance the enforcement of existing laws, conventions and regulations, including MARPOL-Annex V, London Convention and its Protocol, and the Nigerian Merchant Shipping Act 2007. Dakuku listed actions already taken by NIMASA, which has the responsibility of ensuring clean seas and oceans in Nigeria, to include engagement of Marine Litter Marshals across coastal communities and littoral areas as a pilot scheme to clean up identified Marine Litter Hotspots. Marine litter sensitisation campaigns have also been carried out in several littoral communities, he stated. According to him, Nigeria is among the top countries in Africa contributing plastic waste to the oceans. He said, “Communities along the coast are paying a huge price for ocean pollution. Therefore, it becomes imperative that we tackle this immediately. This Marine Litter Action Plan is therefore our own contribution to build the necessary collaboration in tackling this issue that poses a great threat to all of us. “We hope that the Marine Litter Action Plan will trigger the needed behavioural change in our country, improve development and enable the enforcement of new initiatives to tackle Marine Litter and Plastics. “We are already recognised by the IMO as the regional leader in tackling Marine Litter and Plastics and as the lead agency saddled with this responsibility. NIMASA have taken a number of actions in the campaign against Marine Litter and Plastics.” The former director-general disclosed that NIMASA engaged marine litter marshals across coastal communities and littoral areas as a pilot scheme and Pilot Cleanup of identified Marine Litter Hotspots in Nigeria’s coastal states of Bayelsa, Cross River, Akwa Ibom, Rivers, Delta, Ondo and Lagos. He said, “Marine litter sensitisation campaign in 500 littoral communities and provision of necessary waste receptacles to some coastal communities as well as development of marine litter campaign materials. “As we launch the Action Plan, we are taking a stand with the Coastal communities, industry, other stakeholder communities, states, our national government and the International communities to pledge that we shall no longer ignore the effects of Marine Litter and Plastics (macro-plastics and micro-plastics) on biodiversity, marine life, navigation and human health; neither shall we continue to ignore the negative impacts of marine activities like fishing, oil and gas drilling, shipping and ecotourism.” In her own remarks, the Minister of State for Environment, Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor, sued for synergy among relevant government agencies and the private sector in the fight against environmental pollution. Ikeazor, said the ministry would establish more recycling plants for the collection of plastics and other litter that would be cleared from the oceans. “You have started right with sensitisation of our people on what to do with plastics. The Ministry of Environment will definitely support NIMASA. We will take this further and put it together to be a national action plan,” she stated. The highpoint of the event was the unveiling of the Maritime Action Plan for Marine Litter and Plastics Management in Nigeria by the representative of the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemi Saraki, Dr. Paul Adalikwu.