The March 2020 Business Expectations Survey conducted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has revealed that businesses operating in Nigeria are dissatisfied with the management of inflation by the government, with a negative net satisfaction index of -0.3 in March 2020. The net satisfaction index is the proportion of satisfied less the proportion of dissatisfied respondents. The firms that responded to the survey expect the average inflation rate in the next six months and the next 12 months to stand at 11.66 per cent and 11.75 percent, respectively; from its current 12.2 per cent. Firms identified insufficient power supply, competition, high interest rate, financial problems, unfavourable economic climate, unclear economic laws, unfavourable political climate, access to credit and insufficient demand as major factors constraining business activity. The respondent firms however expressed optimism on the macro economy. They anticipate improvements in economic conditions despite current headwinds, as the index on economic growth rate in the short run stood at 22.0, 29.0, 36.1 and 41.9 points for the current month, next month, next 2 months and next 6 months. Respondent firms expect the Naira to appreciate in the current month, next month, next two months and next six months. Inflation level is expected to rise in the next six  months but is expected to fall in the next 12 months, while borrowing rate is expected to rise in the current month, next month, next two months and next six months. The survey posted on the website of the CBN yesterday showed that respondent firms expect borrowing rates to rise in the current month, next month, next two month and the next six months, as the confidence indices stood at 6.9, 8.3 and 9.1 and 10.6 points, respectively. Respondents’ outlook on the volume of total order, business activity and financial conditions (working capital) were positive during the review period that preceded the recent developments in the economy in response to the COVID-19. Financial conditions’ outlook on the volume of total order and business activity in March 2020 remained positive, at 11.5 and 45.4 points, respectively. Similarly, the outlook on financial conditions (working capital) and average capacity utilisation remained positive as the indices stood at 15.2 and 19.8 index points, respectively. “The unemployment index for the next 12 months remained positive at 27.7 points in Q1 2020, indicating that consumers generally expect the unemployment rate to rise in the next one year,” it further states. 