The crisis for the seat of the National Organising Secretary entered another phase as the current occupant, Emmanuel Ibediro slammed his deputy, describing him as a meddlesome interloper. LEADERSHIP recalls that the deputy organising secretary of the party, Malam Mohammed Ibrahim had on Friday, said he had displaced the substantive national organising secretary of the party, Emmanuel Ibediro. Ibrahim told newsmen at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja that Ibediro’ continuous stay in office was illegal in view of an Abuja court order delivered by justice Nnamdi Dimgba on the 14th September, 2018. Speaking with select journalists at the weekend, Ibediro insisted that his deputy’s sponsors were trying to cash in on the current crisis to cause more instability in the APC. “That is why I described his as a meddlesome interloper who is trying to cash in on the perceived crisis that is going on in the party. “Perhaps those who have recruited him believe that since I have decided not to be part of what I consider an attempt to disorganize the party, that this perhaps s a way to bend my hands to come back. But it is not possible. Because when I was sworn as National Organising Secretary after the the APC convention, I was swore to defend the constitution of the party, APC. And under the constitution of the party, I might also let know because this is the first time I’m. “Speaking on this issue, In Article 21 b,c,d, especially d, the constitution is clear on discipline of members. The article does not contemplate situation where it free for all , where any body can seat and remove anybody like what happened in Edo. I’m one of those who believe that whatever maybe the sins of the national chairman, it is not right for a ward executive to seek to remove the national chairman of our party. It is not in our constitution. I believe that those who are fighting the battle, that it is s matter of time they will come to their senses and join hands and put our party back on track. So for me I believe that everybody can still brought together for our party to progress. This party has won election at a very critical period the history of this country. This party has been able to produce a leadership without rancour in the national Assembly, this party whether we like or not has performed more than it did in.2015, so it is not an appropriate time to fight. That is my belief. So if anybody feels I’m not entitled to that opinion and therefore has to go and raise innocuous fight from meddlesome interlopers to challenge my office, then they are wasting their time. “The matter is subjudice and pending, let him be in. if he must act, since what he vied for in the national convention is to be in Acting capacity and not as the Deputy anymore, then he should better wait. And even at that, this position belongs to South East and South east has endorsed me as National organising secretary, because as at this moment, even if they want to carry out what the court says ,it is no longer possible because my opponent between whom I should have issues have left the party and joined another party. “And this man has been carrying this judgement about since two years, a judgement that was delivered on 24 September 2018 ,he has not come to Act until 2020 because he believes there is crisis in the party. I pity those there is a fresh judgement against my office. It is still this same judgement. It known to every officer of the party, and since he is an absentee officer of the party, that’s why I say he is wallowing in ignorance.” he said.