The coronavirus outbreak has spread to 43 of the 54 countries in Africa and claimed 64 lives, with Nigeria accounting for one of the casualties. The continent has a total of 2, 417 cases, of which 203 have recovered in 14 countries. At the last count, Nigeria has 51 confirmed cases while the other 42 countries share the remaining figure of 2,366 infections. Last night Nigeria, recorde another five cases to raise the total cases to 51from 46 earlier in the day. According to statistics contained in the World Health Organisation (WHO’s) website, yesterday, over 427,940 cases have been registered in 181 countries and territories since the epidemic first broke out in China last December. A breakdown of African countries with positive cases showed that Algeria has 264, Angola (2), Benin Republic (5), Burkina Faso (114), Cameroon (70), Cape Verde (3), Central African Republic (5), Chad (3), Congo (4), Côte d’Ivoire (73), Djibouti (3), DRC (48), Egypt (402), Equatorial Guinea (9), Eritrea (1), Eswatini (5), Ethiopia (12), and Gabon (6). Others are Gambia (3), Ghana (53), Guinea (4), Kenya (25), Liberia (3), Madagascar (17), Mauritius (42), Mauritania (2), Morocco (170), Mozambique (3), Namibia (6), Niger (2), Nigeria (46), Rwanda (40), Senegal (86), Seychelles (7), Somalia (1), South Africa (709), Sudan (3), Tanzania (12), Togo (20), Tunisia (114), Uganda (9), Zambia (3), and Zimbabwe (2). The 14 countries sharing the 64 deaths are Algeria (19), Burkina Faso (4), Cameroon (1), DRC (3), Egypt (20), Gabon (1), Gambia (1), Ghana (2), Mauritius (2), Morocco (4), Nigeria (1), Sudan (1), Tunisia (3), and Zimbabwe (1). WHO also named the 14 African countries with 203 recoveries as Algeria (77), Burkina Faso (5), Cameroon (2), Côte d’Ivoire (3), DRC (1), Egypt (80), Ethiopia (4), Ghana (1), Morocco (6), Nigeria (2), Senegal (8), South Africa (12), Togo (1), and Tunisia (1). As at Tuesday, Nigeria had 44 cases, which were increased to 51 yesterday by another recorded cases in Lagos and Osun States. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which disclosed this yesterday via its twitter handle, explained that both cases were returning travellers to Nigeria in the last seven days. It said: “As at 07:00 am 25th March, there are 46 confirmed cases of #COVID19 in Nigeria. Two have been discharged with one death.“ Also yesterday, NCDC warned Nigerians against the use of chloroquine and its derivatives for the management of coronavirus (COVID-19). The centre, which made the admonition via its twitter handle, said: “Please, remember that the use of chloroquine and its derivatives for the management of coronavirus disease has not been validated and approved. Self-medication can cause harm and lead to death. Do not misuse drugs.“ Prince Charles tests positive, Saudi shuts Riyadh, Mecca, Medina after second death Meanwhile, the Prince of Wales, Prince Charles, 71, has joined the rank of global personalities that have tested positive for coronavirus. His status was confirmed by Clarence House. Prince Charles was tested on Monday while the results came out positive on Tuesday. The Cable News Network (CNN) quoted Clarence House as saying that Prince Charles had been displaying mild symptoms “but otherwise remains in good health.” The heir to the British monarchy has been working from home for a few days. His wife, the Duchess of Cornwall, has also been tested but does not have the virus. Buckingham Palace said that the Queen last saw her son on March 12, but was “in good health.” The palace said that the Duke of Edinburgh was not present at that meeting, and that the Queen is now “following all the appropriate advice with regard to her welfare.” In a related  development, Saudi Arabia has shutdown Riyadh, the country’s capital, Mecca and Medina, two of Islam’s holiest cities as well as extended curfew hours to prevent further spread of COVID-19. The action was prompted by the country’s recording of the second death from the virus. The authorities barred entry and exit from Riyadh as well as Mecca and Medina and prohibited movement between all provinces, the official Saudi Press Agency (SPA) reported, yesterday. Officials of Saudi health ministry said that the total number of infections had risen to 900. Saudi Arabia, which has reported the highest number of infections in the Gulf Region on Monday began implementing an 11-hour nationwide curfew – starting at 7 pm – to limit the spread of the deadly COVID-19 illness. The curfew hours were brought forward to 3 pm in the three cities, SPA said ,citing measures approved by King Salman that will take effect from today. Authorities plan to implement the curfew for 21 days and have warned that violators will be fi ned 10,000 Saudi riyals ($2,663) and could face jail for repeated breaches. FG takes delivery of medical equipment from Jack Ma On its part, the federal government has taken delivery of its share of the medical equipment donated by Jack Ma and Alibaba Foundation, China,  to help African countries fight coronavirus. They were brought into the country on Tuesday from the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) in Ethiopia. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Tuesday airlifted the medical materials donated by the Jack Ma Foundation, China, from the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos to the Nnmadi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja, in fulfilment of its role of providing Military Aid to Civil Authority (MACA). In a statement issued yesterday by NAF director, Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, he said that materials, which consist of 107 boxes of medical supplies and equipment, comprising surgical masks, medical disposable protective clothing, face shields and detection kits, weighing about 3,000 pounds, were airlifted in a single mission using the NAF C-130 Hercules aircraft (NAF 913) and handed by the NAF Aircrew over to a delegation from the Federal Ministry of Health led by the permanent secretary, Alhaji Abdulazeez Mashi Abdullahi, yesterday, at the NAIA, Abuja. After inspecting the items, Abdullahi thanked the chief of the air staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, for the timely deployment of aircraft to convey the items to Abuja. He also expressed appreciation to the NAF officers and men who participated in the exercise for their professional conduct.  VP, Osun, Nasarawa Govs Test Negative Meanwhile, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has tested negative for coronavirus, the special adviser to the President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, has said. In his twitter handle, yesterday, @Babafemi ojudu, he said: “Vice President Yemi Osinbajo tests negative.” He did not say when the test was conducted, but Osinbajo’s spokesman, Mr Laolu Akande, confirmed it. He said, “Good morning sirs and ma: (I) have been inundated with calls on whether indeed the VP had undergone a COVID-19 test and the outcome. Yes, he has and result negative. An official tweet would follow. Thanks.” The VP did not come to work at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Tuesday. Also, Osun State governor, Mr Gboyega Oyetola, has disclosed that he had subjected himself to a COVID-19 virus test following his recent travel to Abuja and had been confirmed negative. Oyetola, who spoke with newsmen in Osogbo, the state capital on the report of one positive case of coronavirus and additional measures to curb the spread, said that his wife, Kafayat, because of her recent travel history, subjected herself to the test and came out negative. NCDC had yesterday morning confirmed a case of novel coronavirus in Osun. Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has also tested negative of coronavirus,. A statement issued by the director-general, Strategic Communication and Press Affairs, Yakubu Lamai, he said that Governor Sule had gone into self-isolation, as a precautionary measure against exposure to the coronavirus pandemic. According to him, the governor had earlier invited a medical team from NCDC to conduct comprehensive tests on him and had taken his samples. While noting that, so far, all the results from the test showed negative, Lamai added that the public would be informed on new developments oin the health of the governor, as well as other government officials. Govs Fayemi, Obaseki, Abubakar Sani Bello In Self-isolation Three governors, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, Godwin Obaseki (Edo), and Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger) have gone into self-isoaltion. Fayemi said that he had isolated himself, advised his colleagues in the other 35 states of the federation to do same. The governor, who is the chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), said that he had undergone the coronavirus test having been exposed to two persons who had tested positive for COVID-19. In a tweet yesterday, Fayemi wrote: “I just took the COVID-19 test having gone into self-isolation since yesterday evening. I’m asymptomatic and feel well but I was in meetings with two people who had since tested positive. “I look forward to an all-clear and I have encouraged all my colleagues to take the test,” he said. Similarly, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State has embarked on self-isolation. He said that as a public figure, he must have had contact with some confirmed contact cases of COVID-19. The self-isolation is also due to Sani Bello‘s outing at the NGF meeting on 18th March which was also attended by his colleagues among whom is the Bauchi State governor, Alhaji Bala Mohammed. In a statement released by his chief press secretary, Mary Noel Berje, she said that the governor had gone on to isolate himself while tests would be run to know his status. He said: „Considering the fact that I was in Abuja the whole of last week to participate in the All Progressives Congress (APC) national meeting with the president, the Nigeria Governors’ Forum meeting, National Economic Council (NEC) meeting and the World Bank breakfast meeting, as a way of leading by example, I have placed myself on isolation and waiting to be tested, along with members of my family.“ He acknowledged the directive of the NGF for all the governors that attended the above named meetings to go on self-isolation, including their close aides and people they had contact with His Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, has also gone into self-isolation. In a statement, the special adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said that Obaseki had sent his samples for testing by the NCDC. He said: “The governor has gone into self-isolation after the governor of Bauchi State tested positive for coronavirus. “The governor had met Senator Mohammed at the NGF and NEC meetings.  Atiku Donates N50m, Seeks N10,000 Palliative For Each Household To enable the executive arm of government adequately tackle the coronavirus pandemic, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has called on the National Assembly to reconvene in an emergency session to legislate a “Stimulus Package Act” that will cater for all Nigerians. Atiku, who announced the donation of N50 million to the federal government’s relief funds, appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to approve the sum of N10,000 per household in Nigeria to cushion the effects of the endemic coronavirus The former vice president, who said that  the lawmakers could reconvene through perhaps by teleconference (in line with the demands of social distancing), advocated that government could devise modalities to distribute N10,000 as supplement for food stuff to each household, among other palliative measures, with no one left behind. He also called on all mobile telephony companies in Nigeria to urgently develop mobile money platforms so that the government can reach the unbanked with financial assistance. Atiku, in a statement he personally signed, yesterday, further charged the telecommunications firms to offer each of the 100 million mobile phone lines in Nigeria free credit of at least ₦1,500 per mobile line, so that Nigerians who show symptoms, or those who just want information, can call the nearest available health facility, or even an ambulance service, as the case may be. He further announced a donation of N50 million to a relief fund that will form part of the stimulus package. He commended individuals and corporate organisations which have in one way or the other provided some form of relief for Nigerians. „This is what makes Nigeria great, when we help each other at such crisis times as this, irrespective of any differences. I further call on more corporations and individuals with capacity, to assist the public in these trying times. „To this end, Priam Group pledges N50 million on my behalf as my humble contribution to a relief fund that will form part of the stimulus package,“ he stated.  Dangote Rallies Private Sector Operators Against Virus In the same manner, African richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Access Bank Plc managing director, Herbert Wigwe, are spearheading a coalition of private sector operators to support the federal government‘s efforts to tackle the coronavirus (COVID-19) menace. This gesture is in addition to the N200 million earlier pledged by the Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) to help curb the virus spread. The initiative, which is called Coalition Against Coronavirus (COCAVID), will involve the erection of fully-equipped medical tents to house patients and serve as training, testing, isolation and treatment centres, with an additional facility also provided in Victoria Island, Lagos. The COCAVID, led by Dangote Industries Limited and Access Bank Group in collaboration with Zenith Bank, GTBank, MTN, ITB and others, is tasked with the responsibility of mobilising the private sector leadership and resources, creating public awareness, and directing support to private and public healthcare institutions. Giving details of the coalition, the president of Dangote Industries Limited, Aliko Dangote, explained that “ADF is pulling resources across industries to provide technical and operational support while providing funding and building advocacy through aggressive awareness drives.” He said: “The coalition is working with Lagos State government to erect fully-equipped medical tents that will serve as training, testing, isolation and treatment centres. We are also providing an additional facility in Victoria Island, Lagos.” He promised that the centres will be fully equipped with medical supplies and trained personnel to cater for patients who may become affected. “In addition, we will be bringing in experts from around the world to provide technical and training support,” he said.