A group, The Concerned Citizens of Zamfara (CCZ) has reacted to news report said to be credited to Sen Ahmed Sani Yariman Bakura, that members of the APC in the state should not expect a different judgement from the Supreme Court which dismissed the Imo review on the 2019 gubernatorial election. In a statement made available to newsmen from the secretary-general of the group, Alhaji Musa Gusau, said the statement from the former governor was unfortunate to come from someone who has benefited from the party for many years. He said the former governor should be grateful, and called on the APC in the state to consider such statement as anti-party. The group accused Senator Ahmed Sani of anti-party activities, such as romancing with the PDP government in the state and for coming out to declare that he was in good terms with the state governor who he was wooing into the APC with the intention of allegedly taking the party structure from the former governor, Abdulaziz Yari. “We know why Yarima is doing whatever he is doing, he is afraid of the rising profile of Yari and because he [Yarima] has lost his position as the leader of the party, he is trying to cause confusion but he cannot eat his cake and still expect it on the table”, Gusau said in a statement.
The group assured APC supporters all over the country that the Supreme Court would do justice to the APC case with regard to Zamfara state and enjoined them to keep calm and remain law abiding. The statement further said, “As one of the most controversial senators, Ahmed Sani Yerima told newsmen in Abuja that with the way the Supreme Court dismissed the Imo case, Zamfara would experience the same fate. According to Sani, the court has made it clear, that it has no power to reverse any of its judgements and for that Zamfara APC should not listen to the deceit of Yari who was only wasting their time on baseless litigation. “Ahmed Sani has, however, argued that the Supreme Court cannot reverse its judgements. But, maybe he has forgotten that the Supreme Court has the inherent powers to set aside its decision as decided in a long line of decided cases where there is fraud, mistake, order law misplacement, voluntary miscarriage of justice and where the decision is reached in the absence of or in excess of jurisdiction. All these instances have to be covered by the Supreme Court on the review of judgement.”