As part of measures to curtail the spread of Covid-19 in the country, the federal government has announced plans to stop inter-state and inter-town travels, except for essential services. Addressing a press conference in Abuja yesterday, the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said the government is also considering closing all motor parks and inter-state rail stations. Other measures to curb the spread according to the minister include using firefighting and other adaptable vehicles and personnel to fumigate cities and towns to curtail the spread of the virus. Alhaji Mohammed, however, stressed that the federal government is determined to be more aggressive in enforcing the measures aimed at containing the spread of the virus such as: ‘’social distancing, contact tracing, testing, isolation of suspected cases and ensuring that our messaging gets down to the grassroots.’’ He also decried that the federal government ‘’is not getting the kind of cooperation that this moment deserves from Nigerians.’’ The minister also stressed that contact tracing is very critical to stopping the spread of the virus. He said: ‘’We have 4,370 people of interest whom we are tracing. We urge those who have had contact with suspected cases to immediately report to the authorities. ‘’We urge Nigerians to support the authorities in this regard. We are on the verge of reaching the level of community spread. We must stop this immediately or we will record exponential cases in the days ahead. There is no better way to say this. ‘’Let me say, without mincing words, that we are not getting the kind of cooperation that this moment deserves from Nigerians. Many are busy engaging in meaningless criticisms instead of complying with the stipulated directives to keep people safe.’’ Alhaji Mohammed decried that some Nigerians who flew into the country from overseas filled wrong addresses and phone numbers in their forms, making it difficult to trace them when the need arises. He said some Nigerians defied orders to stay away from large gatherings while some religious leaders willfully flouted the directives to ensure social distancing. ‘’The government is doing its best but we need the citizens to do their best too. We have now gone past the stage of persuasion. It’s time for strong enforcement. ‘’Today, we have 51 cases covering 8 states: Lagos – 32, FCT – 10, Ogun – 3, Ekiti – 1, Edo – 1, Bauchi – 1, Osun – 1, Oyo – 1 and Rivers – 1,’’ he said. Alhaji Mohammed also said that the federal government has received donated safety and test kits from the Jack Ma Foundation in China. ‘’The supplies are: 100,000 Face Masks, 1,000 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), 20,000 test kits ‘’The face masks and the PPE will be distributed to the front-line health workers while the test kits will be shared among the five test laboratories,’’ he said. On measures to increase bed spaces in isolation centres, he said the government is taking measures to increase the number of bed spaces for isolation of suspects. ‘’The facilities we have now include the 40-bed DSS Hotel, the 60-bed Medical Centre in Zuba and the 160-bed, Women Development Centre in Abuja, We are still looking at other facilities within the Federal Capital Territory,’’ he said. On the rising instances of fake news associated with coronavirus, he said the epidemic of fake news is now competing with the pandemic of coronavirus, adding that it is not helping the fight against the disease. ‘’Instances of such fake news include: That there are only two ventilators in Abuja, out of which one has been commandeered for a top government official, that a British Airways Flight was due to land in Nigeria on Wednesday despite the closure of all international airports. ‘’That President Muhammadu Buhari has been coughing and is now on a ventilator. Fake! Fake!! Fake!!! It’s all fake news. ‘’A section of the traditional media has also been engaging in scaremongering and irresponsible reporting on the disease. It is wrong to speculate on those who are positive or negative for coronavirus without any empirical information. In any case, being positive to coronavirus is not a death sentence, as we can see around the world,’’ he said. He noted that there is no need for the kind of scaremongering the nation is seeing in a section of the media. The danger, according to him is that this scaremongering can even discourage some who may want to come forward for testing. ‘’We, therefore, wish to appeal to the media to be more circumspect in their reporting. ‘’Gentlemen, we have noted the decision of at least five domestic airlines – Air Peace, Aero and Azman, Dana and Arik – to suspend their flight operations. The suspension is a boost for the efforts of the government to check the spread of the pandemic. ‘’Some of the airlines have also announced one form of support or another for the government’s efforts to tackle the pandemic. This is very commendable. We are aware of more private sector support to the federal government and will be announcing this after full compilation. ‘’We seek the support and cooperation of more capable individuals and organizations in order to defeat this pandemic.’’ The minister also appealed to Nigerians not to panic. ‘’It is said that panic is our greatest enemy. The federal government is determined to work with the good people of Nigeria to defeat Covid-19. And defeat the disease we will,’’ he added.