There is palpable tension among Nigerian importers as a French shipping company, CMA/CGM has slammed a fresh surcharge on Lagos ports bound cargoes over congestion. The $1,500 (N540,000 at a prevailing rate of N360 /$ ) is tagged peak season surcharge which will take effect from April 1st, 2020 till further notice. The shipping company said the surcharge was in its effort to provide its customers with reliable and efficient services. According to the shipping line, the Peak Season Surcharge is applicable until further notice. In an advisory note to customers, the shipping company said, “Effective April 1st, 2020 (date of loading), from India Subcontinent & Middle East Gulf to Lagos ports: Apapa and Tin Can, Nigeria, dry, reefer, OOG, Breakbulk will pay a peak season Surcharge of $1500 per unit.” Recall that shipping liners calling at Nigerian ports in Lagos are presently experiencing operational delays due to the lingering congestion within the port terminals resulting in long waiting time of vessels before accessing the port to discharge laden containers. Currently, shipping liners are spending more than 25 days waiting time in Apapa Container terminal, West Africa’s busiest container terminal and over 10 days waiting time in Tin-Can Island Container Terminal. For instance, Hapag-Lloyd, German shipping company recently said that the current waiting time for berth in APMT terminal in Apapa, Nigeria, is now more than 25 days while for TICT terminal (Tin-Can Island) waiting times exceed 10 days. According to the liner, these operational delays are heavily affecting its two services called MIAX and MWX, which have calls at both terminals in their long-term schedules. Hapag-Lloyd further assured its customers that it would continue to take measures for each vessel approaching the port of Lagos in order to minimise the impact on its customers. “If a decision to omit APMT terminal is taken, the cargo will be discharged at TICT terminal and further transferred to KCT terminal by dedicated barge service on Hapag-Lloyd account and arrangement, where Customs clearance of Apapa cargo is possible,” the shipping liner stated.