Moves by some chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to kick out the party national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, out of office, hit the rock yesterday as President Muhammadu Buhari and the Court of Appeal turned the pendulum in his favour. Oshiomhole’s traducers had planned to use the scheduled but now suspended National Executive Council (NEC) meeting for today to end the tenure of the APC chairman. But an intervention of the president and a ruling by the Appeal Court gave the embattled chairman a sigh of relief. The indefinite postponement of the NEC meeting was announced by the chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Abubakar Bagudu, after leading the governors elected on the platform of the APC to a meeting with President Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. Governor Bagudu said that the NEC meeting would remain suspended until such a time that the governors were able to report back to the president the outcome of their peace overtures. The meeting which lasted for only 20 minutes had all the APC governors in attendance except Nasir el- Rufai of Kaduna State and Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State and Mai Bala Buni of Yobe State. It was widely speculated that the postponed NEC meeting was called by the anti-Oshiomhole elements in the APC to facilitate his formal removal from office. Bagudu who is also the governor of Kebbi State said that the governors had agreed to work together in order to resolve the lingering leadership crisis in the APC. He said: We met with Mr President; amongst other issues, we discussed about the party and showed appreciation to Mr President on how he has given access to us, individually and collectively. “And amongst the issues we discussed was the need for the resolution that the governors have taken to work together to resolve all the issues in the party. “Also, we seek Mr. President’s support to postpone the NEC meeting that is schedule for tomorrow (today) until such a time that the governors are ready to report back,” he said, adding that President Buhari was excited with their resolution. “Yes, he’s so happy that we all agreed to that,” was his answer to the question on whether the president agreed with their suggestions. The APC leadership dispute heightened recently when an Abuja High Court upheld the suspension of Oshiomhole by his ward and ordered him to stop parading himself as the APC national chairman. But the Court of Appeal, Abuja Division, yesterday, granted a stay of the execution of the lower court order sacking Oshiomhole from office. With the decision of the court, Oshiomhole now remains the APC chairman. Justice Danlami Senchi of the High Court of the FCT had about two weeks ordered the removal of the APC chairman from office. However, Justice Abubakar Yahaya, who presided over a three-man panel of the appellate court while ruling in an ex-parte application filed by Oshiomhole, held that “we have looked at the application and we are of the view that the image of emergency has been painted. There is information that NEC would hold its meeting tomorrow (today) and the applicant will not be there. We find merit in the application. We hereby order a stay of execution of the lower court made on March 4, 2020, pending the hearing of the notice of appeal slated for Friday, March 20, 2020.” Oshiomole had in an ex-parte application prayed the court to halt the suspension order on the ground that there would be no status quo ante bellum if the appellate court fails to intervene. The APC chairman, through his lawyers had informed the court that there would be a NEC meeting of the APC today, wherein he would be excluded going by the suspension order of the lower court. Shortly after arguments were taken from the counsel, the appellate court in its ruling held that the status quo can only be maintained, if the order of the lower court is stayed. “Justice would not have been served if the applicant is not in that meeting. The status quo can only be maintained if there is a stay,” the court said. The court in addition ordered all parties in the suit not to take any further steps that would affect the its ruling. “We hereby give an order of injunction restraining the respondents or their agents from taking further steps until the determination of the substantive suit,” it ruled. The Court of Appeal in addition made an order of accelerated hearing in the matter. Justice Yahaya urged politicians to learn to resolve their problems without involving the courts. Shortly after the court sitting, an APC chieftain and the director-general of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Chief Osita Okechukwu, explained why a faction of the party wants Oshiomhole dropped. Okechukwu spoke yesterday at the Court of Appeal where Oshiomhole challenged his suspension by a High Court of the FCT, Abuja. Speaking on behalf of the ”Oshiomhole Must Go” group, Okechukwu listed 10 ”sins” allegedly committed by APC chairman against the party. Among others, the group accused Oshiomhole of the revival and resurrection of “collapsing” Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) structure, a political party in 2018 ravaged by intra-party feud, to win more states like Adamawa, Bauchi, Zamfara, and Sokoto, all APC strongholds. He said: ”With the greatest respect to our national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; we are passionate and loyal members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the grassroots level. Permit us to state without equivocation that, hitherto we held Comrade Adams Oshiomhole in high esteem and had high expectations of optimum performance and quality leadership from him. That explains why we the APC delegates nationwide unanimously and consensually elected him as sole chairmanship candidate two years ago. “It is, therefore, with deep regret that two years down the line, Comrade Oshiomhole, now a Bull in the China Shop; in utter disregard to the high expectations of the responsibility entrusted on him, and the constitution of the APC has today committed without remorse or introspection 10 monumental cardinal sins against our great party. If there is a virus as our revered Asiwaju proclaimed, it is more of Osho-Virus than 2023 Virus! “With deep anguish and regret may we among litany of woes, itemise the 10 Osho-Virus blunders as follows:  Revival and resurrection of collapsing Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) structure, a political party in 2018 was ravaged by internecine intra-party feud to win more states like Adamawa, Bauchi, Zamfara, and Sokoto, all APC strongholds,” he said.