Community leaders, stakeholders, youths of peaceful Idumuje Ugboko Community in Aniocha North local government of Delta state weekend said attempts to drag an illustrious son of the town, Prince Ned Nwoko into criminal investigation committed by some persons against the peace loving indigenes of the community would failed. Members of the community said they are happy with the indelible and singular effort of Ned Nwoko in putting Idumuje Ugboko community in the global map of development as being witnessed. They called on those whose stock in trade is to promote disunity and violence against innocent indigenes of the community for their selfish interest to immediately retrace their steps. They specifically said Nonso Nwoko and his co-travellers facing allegations bothering on act of terrorism and abuse will have their days in court to answers their allegation and wondered why Prince Ned, a peace loving Philanthropist should be fingered in their ordeal. Chief Fred Chuwku in a statement following a viral post which attributed the crisis in the community to allegation against Ned Nwoko of land grabbing and oppression said the latter acquired the said expanse of land following due process of land acquisition. “It is most unfortunate that these same people who are had masterminded the wanton destructions in the community could even speak up and blamed their ordeal on an innocent man whose worries is to put smile on the faces of Nigerians irrespective tribes, religious or creed. Similarly,  the media aide to Prince Ned, Ifetayo Adeniyi, said those who sponsored the story did not make proper finding on the alleged land grabbing case and noted that it not only misleading that the 100 acres of land has not been develop but height of mischief. “There was no plan whatsoever by Ned to deceive the members of the community considering the fact that the same Ned has given scholarship scheme to countless members of the community and it would be detrimental to drag his name in the mud” He noted: “About 5 years ago, he proposed that he want to build a University in the community and the Obi in Councils (appointed by late Obi to deal on community Land) gave him the land with a caveat that if in 5 years he didn’t do anything on the land they will take it back. “The said land will be like an equity contribution from the Idumuje Ugboko community more like a joint venture for the community to own 40% and he paid money to the community and clan heads for their crops compensation and extra land he acquired. “I can tell you categorically that if you go there today construction of the first sport University in Africa, is ongoing.  NUC team were there to see the level of work. So it is preposterous and unfair to accuse him of bullying the same community people he has always protected and supported” “The heinous crimes by these culprits, their refusal to appear in court after several adjustments, court bench warrants issued and court officials who went with police to execute warrants were beaten up and assaulted” “Some of the defendants arrested and arraigned but granted bail on stringent conditions and their crimes has nothing to do with land dispute. Land disputes are in civil courts. Rather their criminal acts arose when they terrorized, set properties ablaze and beat up people among those who are opposed to prince Nonso nwoko becoming the king of idumuje Ugboko”. He added 