As Nigeria joined the global community to commemorate this year’s International Women’s Day, a coalition of women in PACFaH@Scale, have called on all the tiers of government to address the barriers to achieving gender equality. The group, which made the call at a press conference on Sunday, said women sexual and reproductive health and rights are fundamental to women’s autonomy and well-being. The representative of the National Council for Women in Politics, Dr. Gloria Shoda, who spoke on behalf of Women in PACFaH@Scale, noted that maternal mortality, adolescent pregnancy and access to sexual and reproductive health are some of the important aspect of women’s health that have an impact on development. According to her, government has the duty to fulfill women’s right pledges and provide all women with accessible, affordable, good quality sexual and reproductive healthcare and services. She identified some of the barriers as “lack of women education, illiteracy, lack of mentorship of younger generation, harmful traditional practices, early marriage, gender-based violence and negligence of women with special needs. “Women have poor representative in leadership positions in government, including health boards. The women in PACFaH@Scale believe that if these barriers are removed by fully funding, implementing and ensuring accountability, every Nigerian woman will have access to affordable and qualitative healthcare.” She therefore tasked government on provision of emergency transportation for pregnant women and newborns in need and provide funds for operational cost while urging the national assembly to pass law on the 35per cent affirmative action for women involvement and inclusion in government. She also urged governments to enforce the six months maternity leave, with full pay for women. Present at the press briefing were the representatives of the Medical Women Association of Nigeria, Women in Media Communication Initiative (WIM-PAS), National Association of Nigeria Pediatric Nurses (NANPAN), Global Initiative for Women and Children (GIWAC-PAS). 