In a bid to prevent the spread of Coronavirus in Ekiti State, Governor Kayode Fayemi, Sunday imposed 14-day dusk to dawn curfew on the state. He said the purpose curfew is to impose restrictions on the movement of persons and goods within Ekiti State for an initial period of fourteen days. Fayemi who stated this in a state-wide broadcast on Sunday morning said whoever flouted the order risk being fined or jailed He said it was in urgent public interest that strict compliance with all directives given to prevent community spreading of the disease must be ensured. According to him, “In our collective interest and to further ensure the safety of Ekiti-kete, having declared Coronavirus (COVID- 19) an infectious disease in Ekiti State, I hereby, in pursuant to Section 8 of the Quarantine Act, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended) impose a curfew of movement in Ekiti State. “Therefore, effective from 23H59 (11:59pm) on Monday, March 30, 2020 until 23H59 (11:59pm) on Monday, April 13, 2020, there shall be restriction of movement across the length and breadth of Ekiti State, with all our borders closed. “That is a full and total shut down of Ekiti State, and a 12-hour dusk to dawn curfew in Ekiti State from 7:00pm – 7:00 am. All Ekiti residents are hereby directed to Stay – At – Home. “We are implementing the Quarantine Act to keep all Ekiti residents safe. So let me be clear. If you do not go home or stay home for at least fourteen (14) days as from Monday, 30 March, 2020, you could face serious fines or prison term. “Any person who contravenes these regulations shall be guilty of an offence and, on conviction, liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment. He said all movements between town and villages are prohibited adding that every person shall be confined to the place where he or she ordinarily resides in Ekiti State. According to him, all boundaries of Ekiti State are closed during this period, except for transportation of fuel, food and drugs and other essential goods. 