Strategic airpower approach remains a critical tool in bringing terrorists to their knees. This comes light of the fight against insurgency which has defied conventional strategy, TARKAA DAVID writes. The sustained airstrikes by the Nigerian Air Force has ultimately added value to the war against terrorist groups in the country, with destruction of terrorist hideouts as well as the neutralisation of Boko Haram terrorists and the Islamic State in West Africa top leaders. Hitherto, the ideological war which began as a political revolution later received international support which the military has continued to battle recording casualties from both man power and equipment. However, as part of efforts to dislodge the terrorists from their enclaves in the Northeast, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), through the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE, 10 December, 2019 launched Operation Rattle Snake against terrorists. Following the successes recorded, the operation has continued to evolve from Operation Rattle Snake to Rattle Snake 2 and now Rattle Snake 3. The Director of Public Relations and Information Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola said the air Interdiction Operation, which started on, 10 December 2019, targets selected locations within the Northeast in order to further degrade the remnants of the terrorists as well as deny them safe havens and freedom of action. Daramola said on the first day, the airstrikes by NAF aircraft resulted in the neutralisation of several Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and destruction of some of their structures at their tactical headquarters in Parisu as well as another settlement, Garin Maloma, both on the fringes of the Sambisa Forest in Borno State. According to him, the attacks were executed following series of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, that showed the presence of a significant number of BHT fighters in makeshift structures/buildings under trees spread across the 2 settlements. “Overhead Parisu, no fewer than 30 terrorists were observed by the ISR aircraft in different parts of the settlement. The attack aircraft dispatched by the ATF to engage the location recorded accurate hits within the target area, leading to the destruction of some of the structures as well as the killing of several terrorists,” he said. The director noted that other fighters, who attempted to flee while putting up a fight, were taken out by follow on strikes at their hiding places under some trees as well as along the river line at the edge of the settlement. He added that an attack conducted earlier in the day at Garin Maloma similarly resulted in the neutralization of several BHTs. He, therefore, restated that the NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its efforts to destroy all remnants of the terrorists in the Northeast.  Air Strikes At Kokiwa, Bula Korege The Air Task Force (ATF) for Operation LAFIYA DOLE neutralized scores of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and destroyed some of their structures in massive airstrikes at Kokiwa and Bula Korege on the fringes of the Sambisa Forest in Borno State. The Nigerian Air Force in a statement said the airstrikes were conducted on 11 December in continuation of Operation Rattle Snake after credible Human Intelligence (HUMINT) reports. The HUMINT reports were also corroborated by series of Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, establishing that the BHTs had intensified activities in the targeted settlements with a view to launching attacks against government troops’ locations in the area. The ATF detailed its fighter jets and helicopter gunships to attack the locations with direct hits. “The combat aircraft took turns attacking targets at both locations, scoring crucial hits on the hideouts leading to the neutralization of several BHT fighters as well as the destruction of many of their structures, some of which was seen engulfed in flames,” it stated.  Air Strike At Bulam Camp Following series of successes recorded in Operation Rattle, the Air Task Force launched Operation Rattle Snake 2 and destroyed a Boko Haram terrorist camp at Bulam in the fringes of Borno State. This airstrike neutralised scores of the terrorist fighters. The NAF spokesperson, Air Commodore Daramola, recalled that, in early to mid-December 2019, the service executed the highly successful Operation Rattle Snake 1, reiterating that operation Rattle Snake 2 is planned to consolidate the gains of the earlier operation and shape the battlespace for further air and ground operations. The strike at Bulam camp was executed to mark the commencement of Operation Rattle Snake 2, an Air Interdiction Operation aimed at taking out some identified insurgent camps and logistics facilities in order to further unhinge the terrorists’ centre of gravity and diminish their fighting capability. The director noted that the camp was selected for the attack on day one of the operation based on credible intelligence reports indicating that the terrorists had resumed using the once-abandoned settlement as a staging point from where they launch attacks against troops’ locations. “Accordingly, the ATF detailed its attack aircraft, supported by an Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft, to attack designated compounds within the settlement. The jets took turns to engage the target in successive passes leading to the destruction of some of the structures as well as the killing of several terrorists,” he said.  Destruction Of ISWAP Hideouts At Kusuwa The Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE in continuation Operation Rattle Snake 2, destroyed some facilities belonging to the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) hideout at Kusuma on the fringes of the Lake Chad. The airstrike was conducted following credible intelligence reports revealing that a cluster of compounds within the settlement was being used to house some ISWAP leaders along with their supplies. “The ATF therefore, after confirmatory Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR), detailed its attack aircraft to engage the location leading to the destruction of the designated structures, some of which was seen engulfed in flames.” Also following successes recorded in Rattle Snakes 1 and 2 in the Tumbuns, the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE on 4 February, 2020 launched Operation Rattle Snake 3 against the elements of Boko Haram Terrorists and the Islamic State West Africa Province. The Operation on the first day destroyed a hideout belonging to the Islamic State West Africa Province ISWAP in Borno State operating in the Northeast. The director of Public Relations and Information Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola in a statement said the operation began on 4 February 2020, targeting selected locations within the Northeast in order to further degrade the remnants of the terrorists as well as deny them freedom of action. He said on the first day, “airstrikes by NAF attack aircraft destroyed an Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) hideout as well as the neutralization of some of their fighters at Tongule in the Lake Chad area of Northern Borno State”. He said airstrikes were executed following series of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, indicating that ISWAP fighters were harboured in some buildings at the southern edge of the settlement. “Accordingly, the ATF dispatched its fighter jets to engage the location, scoring accurate hits on the designated target leading to the destruction of the structures and the neutralization of some of the terrorists,” he noted.