The House of Representatives held a special session to proffer practicable solutions to the alarming rate of out-of-school children in Nigeria. One of the far reaching resolutions of the House was the need for lawmakers to hold town-hall meetings with their  various constituents towards finding a lasting solution to the problem, ADEBIYI ADEDAPO reports. A major revolution in Nigeria’s basic education system may be underway, as the 360 members in the House of Representatives prepare to engage their constituents and stakeholders on the best possible ways to effectively tackle the alarming rate of out-of-school children in the country. At the resumption plenary for the year 2020, the 9th House of Representatives, as part of its focus for year, pledged to hold a special session, to engage stakeholders and proffer a long term practicable solution the menace of out-of-school children in the country. The House last week fulfilled its promise, as a robust deliberation was recorded on the matter during the special session presided over by the speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila. After hours of debate on the issue, the lawmakers, amongst other resolutions, agreed that each member should take the last weekend in the month of March to hold town-hall meetings with their constituents and local stakeholders in other to address the issue and proffer a solution to the problem in their localities. A recent survey by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) suggests that only 61 per cent of Nigerian children between the ages of 6-11 year-olds regularly attend primary school, while only 35.6 per cent of children aged 36 to 59 months receive early childhood education. It also indicates that the population of out of school children in Nigeria has risen from 10.5 million to 13.2 million, the highest in the world. Most of these children are in Nigeria’s northern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa, where Boko Haram insecurities have disrupted academic activities. By 2019, the minister of education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, said the approximate number of out-of-school children stands between 10.6 million and 16 million. While there is not exact figure to the rate of out-of-school children in Nigeria, it is commonly agreed that one in every five of the world’s out-of-school children is in Nigeria. This is certainly frightening and unacceptable in the 21st century. It was these worrying statistics that led the House of Representatives to set aside Thursday, March 12 to brainstorm and chart a way forward over this ugly trend. At the special session, which was presided over by the speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, who is the sponsor of the motion, the lawmakers unanimously agreed that urgent and radical steps needed to be taken to arrest the trend. While addressing his colleagues on the national emergency, Gbajabiamila expressed the hope that the resolutions from the robust debate would lead to actionable policy plans that will effectively tackle the problem. “We have come here today to consider the matter of the millions of children in our country who are out of school, and who as a result, are denied their fundamental right to receive the training and skills acquisition opportunities that will allow them to have better lives than their parents and provide a better future for their offspring. “We are here to consider the failures of policy development and implementation, the vagaries of culture and religion that have contributed to the plight of these young people. We are here to advance solutions to this problem. “We are here to act in the best interests of our people by ensuring that the solutions presented here today are formulated into actionable policy plans to be implemented diligently, with haste. “This is a commitment that we made in our Legislative Agenda, and we will live up to this and all other commitments which we have freely made before God and the Nigerian people who have chosen us to represent them here in this hallowed chamber,” he said. The speaker explained that over the last 20 years, the Nigerian government has committed to a programme of educational reform that has resulted in the allocation of significant sums of money to fund basic education. He however lamented that these reforms have been intended mostly to address the availability gap by building new schools and providing teachers in previously underserved areas, but “have not yielded the desired outcomes. “That process of course correction must begin first with a critical assessment of everything we have done so far, so that we can objectively determine for ourselves, what works and what doesn’t, what can be learned from reform efforts and what is necessary to ensure that no Nigerian child, born in this age will ever be denied the benefits of an empowering education. “let no one be left in any doubt, we will not eradicate poverty from our land or meet the challenges of insecurity, we cannot defeat ignorance and strife or attract foreign investment in significant numbers to make a substantial economic difference until we have ensured for all our people access to a modern education that empowers them to participate fully in the 21st century knowledge economy,” he added. Th member representing Ijero/Ekiti West/Efon federal constituency of Ekiti State, Hon Ogunlola Olubunmi, while presenting the motion on behalf of the speaker, stated that data provided by UNICEF on the number of out-of-school children in Nigeria is alarming and constitutes a time bomb that needs to be diffused before it explodes into a national disaster. She expressed sadness at the high number of children who are not being educationally equipped to contribute to national development in the future, saying it is a violation of the fundamental human right of these hapless children. Ogunlola called on the House Committee on Basic Education to carry out a comprehensive investigation on the actual number of out-of-school children in Nigeria. According to her, the committee should also evaluate existing government programmes aimed at “tackling the menace, evaluate the level of completion and implementation of such programmes and policies and report back within four weeks for further legislative actions.” The lawmaker equally urged the House to organise a public hearing to get the input of the public and critical stakeholders in order to tackle the menace. She also proposed the amendment of the NYSC Act to accommodate qualified and willing corps members to be posted as teachers in understaffed regions, with a commitment from the government to fund such endeavour. Speaking in support of the motion, Hon. Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), noted that both government and private individuals have roles to play towards the education and wellbeing of the Nigerian child. He praised the speaker for the spirit of the motion, which is to ensure that no child is left behind as regards their rights to basic education. Also, in his contribution, chief whip of the House, Hon Mohammed Tahir Monguno (APC, Borno) stated that education as the bedrock of any societal development cannot be overlooked by any serious government. He disclosed that he had a poor background, and the free feeding policy of the government was something that drew and kept him in school. While noting that the education policy aided his personal development, Monguno called on governments at all levels to reintroduce and maintain the mandatory free qualitative basic school education system as well as the free feeding programme as an incentive to draw children back to school. The House Leader, Hon Alhassan Ado-Doguwa (APC, Kano) attributed the problem of out-of-school children to the major cause of insurgency, especially in the north eastern part of the country. He, therefore called on governments at all levels to ensure the problem is tackled in all geopolitical zones as it has continued to encourage kidnapping, banditry, robbery, militancy and cattle rustling. He also called on the House as an institution to continue to advocate for quality and accessible education for all Nigerian children, as this is a foundation that is necessary for societal development, while commending the governments of Kano and Nasarawa states for directing that no child within school age should be seen idling on the streets during school hours. In his own contribution, Hon Chris Azubogu (APC, Anambra), the provision of adequate and enforceable government policies, as well as the requisite, critical infrastructure is indispensable for impactful education to thrive in Nigeria. This, he stated ensures the mental development necessary to translate into economic national development for the nation is achieved. Also contributing to the debate, deputy chief whip, Hon Nkeiruka Onyejeocha (APC, Abia), said Nigeria must ensure the right training is given to children from the foundation. She also advocated for empowerment of the girl-child as they seem to be the most vulnerable in the statistics of out-of-school children. Hon Abubakar Fulata (APC, Jigawa), blamed economic hardship and negligence for the educational underdevelopment of some Nigerian states. He called for the adoption and enforcement of proper policies aimed at educational development such as free and compulsory education as well as technical educational. In an emotional laden tone, Hon Francis Waive (APC, Delta), expressed sadness that out-of-school children are simply victims of either personal or communal disaster, insurgency or economic underdevelopment. He also bemoaned the low quality of life on the streets that some of these children have to undergo daily. The lawmaker blamed population explosion, family crisis and failure to plan and build adequate social infrastructure as the major cause. The minority leader, Hon Ndudi Elumelu (PDP, Delta) also called for practical solutions to reduce the number of out-of-school children. To this end, he called on politicians to sacrifice part of their allowances and entitlements to help cater for some of the affected children in their constituencies. He also advised government’s at different levels to create incentives and the enabling environment for children to attend and remain in school, such as the free and quality basic education system as well as the free feeding programme. He equally called on the business community and captains of industry to also set up or partner with existing education funds and foundations to help the government reduce the number of out-of-school children. The deputy minority leader, Hon Toby Okechukwu (PDP, Enugu), in his contribution,  stated that a large number of Nigerians are supposed to be an asset, but when they are uneducated, they become a national burden. He emphasised that the difference between an individual in petty trading and one who is a captain of industry might just be education hence education is not what should be denied anyone. After an extensive debate lasting several hours, the House resolved to investigate and ascertain the actual figure in every state of the federation. It also agreed to assess federal government’s total expenditure on basic education over the last 10 years to identify how and what these funds have been spent on and the status of all ongoing capital projects by the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) across the country. Similarly, the House also agreed to commence the process of amending the National Youth Service Corps Act to establish a programme to identify, recruit and train willing, capable and promising young Nigerians to serve as teachers in under-served areas. Finally, the lawmakers resolved that each of them should take the last weekend in March to hold town-hall meetings with their constituents and local stakeholders to address the issue and proffer a solution to the problem in their localities.