Provost of Federal College of Education FCE Obudu, Prof. James Ejue has warned fresh students of the institution not to engage themselves in recalcitrant/ antisocial behaviour so as not to risk being flush out from the institution. He said any attempt to indulged in unruly behavior that drags the institution name to the mud shall be shown the way out of school. The FCE Provost issued the warning while speaking at the 2019/2020 matriculation ceremony which took place yesterday at the institution main campus in Obudu LGA of Cross River State. Ejue warned the 1,400 matriculating students who were offered admission to pursue academic programmes in six schools not to keep bad companies so as not to be lieu into joining bad associations perceived by authority of the institution as bad associations stressing that the school authority would not hesitate to show erring students way out from the institution. He said that henceforth students who violate rules of the institution by belonging to proscribed association like cult group, examination malpractice, and other deviant behaviour shall not only be thrown out of school but be handed over to the police to face the full weight of the law. Ejue stated that as an institution, FCE Obudu was not only given the mandate to produce quality teachers alone, was mandated produce teachers with ability to mould characters of young persons after completing their programmes. The provost reeled out the institution’s giant stride under his watch to include, completion of ultra modern 4-classroom block tastefully furnished for school of Early Childhood-care and Primary Education. Others strides include, construction/furnishing of a 4- Classroom Block with offices for school of Adult Education, construction, furnishing of a Multi Purpose Pavilion stressing that he had also constructed and equipped technical education workshop with offices at Bebi Campus which according to him will facilitate learning/teaching. Other strides includes, installation of a power generating plants, office furniture/ equipment, computers, 14 seated bus and a solar street light and 10 lavatories each undergoing construction. “Under my watch FCE Obudu shall do everything humanly possible to ensure that the institution produces fully barked graduates of National Certificate of Educate NCE with high morale standards.