Cauliflower is the real talk of the town now, while being dominant in pizza crust and a significant part of hot cereal. The vegetable is also trying to take the position of rice and sushi. While the rise of this white vegetable might come as a surprise to many people, but when we look through a nutritionist’s lense, several reasons might help you to switch your diet with this vegetable. Dense in nutrients: The vegetable is vitamin-rich and encompasses 75% of vitamin C. While the plant acts as a booster for immunity, the nutrients present in the cauliflower are needed for DNA reparation. It also acts as a subject of producing serotonin, which helps the person sleep better. Acts as an anti-inflammatory actor: The presence of bioactive compounds in the vegetable is better known for its help in reducing the inflammation. It contains antioxidants that help decrease stress. It enhances the body’s ability to fend off diseases and helps a person from premature aging. The best defender from cancer: While being anti-inflammatory and dense in nutrients, cauliflower is also known for its role in fighting off cancer and protecting against heart diseases. Bear in mind that these two diseases are the primary cause of death in America. Fights age-related cognitive decline: Studies have shown, and it has been proved in case studies that the presence of natural substances in the cauliflower protects the brain and fights against early aging. A natural detoxer: While the world detoxer might sound like a person who just quit doing drugs, but the reality is that it is often exaggerated. Meaning that cauliflower helps to fight off damaging chemicals and helps detox the body quicker than any other way. The color of the vegetable varies, ranging from white to purple and orange to green. For better taste and more nutrition, one must mix all of the colors. Even if you are an adventurer type of person, you can add the vegetable into many desserts. While the green can be used in daily routine, it is recommended that one must use it occasionally as a treat. It is one more way to eat fewer carbohydrates and more vitamins.