In this report, GEORGE AGBA examines the controversy that trailed calls for the removal of service chiefs over festering insecurity in the country against the backdrop of the marching orders handed the top military brass this week by President Muhammadu Buhari. It started like a normal conversation among concerned citizens that were driven by love for their country in the grip of insecurity and criminality. The talk about the state of the nation soon began to grow beyond a mere conversation, morphing into movements in parts of the country. Then the politicians surged, thwarting the course and imputing partisanship, thereby politicizing what should ordinarily have created a common ground for all citizens to find common answers to the national security conundrum. In the raging national fury featuring self-a claimed security experts and analysts with access to the media across the land, the competence and even the patriotic credentials of heads of military and security agencies came under severe scrutiny, resulting in calls by National Assembly (NASS) members for their resignation or disengagement. This prompted a swift meeting called by President Muhammadu Buhari with the Senator Ahmed Lawan-led NASS leadership at the Presidential Villa. The meeting, it was learnt, gave the representatives of the people the opportunity to get first-hand briefing by the president on the issues at stake, thus changing the conversation on the floor of the parliament from sheer condemnation of the service chiefs to finding the way forward. At the last security meeting with the service chiefs, President Buhari gave a fresh order that no effort should be spared in ridding the country, especially the insurgency-prone North East of any form of criminality. With this tall order, he got the security chiefs cracking again like cannons overcharged with double cracks, after wading through the storm of national fury over festering insecurity in the land. The dust may appear to have settled at the moment, the situation offers an opportunity for a post-mortem in the search for solutions to the hydra-headed national security problems. In this regard, the government, analysts, experts, pressure groups and concerned citizens have been commenting, saying that the real issue at hand is beyond the call for the removal of service chiefs. A civil advocacy group, Concerned Professionals Congress (CPC) in Abuja at the weekend noted that the controversy over service chiefs was wrong-headed, explaining that it is symptomatic of ill-digested thoughts on the way forward. In a statement jointly issued by the group’s Chief Media Strategist, Mr Emeka Nwankpa and its Northern Rapporteur, Kasim Baba Kasim, CPC said that the seeming fixation on the service chiefs by some partisan commentators smacked of a hidden agenda to embarrass and demoralize the nation’s high military and security command to undermine and derail the on-going fight against insurgents and other enemies of the Nigerian State. The group stated: ‘’It (the move against service chiefs) is a very wrong-headed gambit that leads nowhere. There is nothing in the matrix that guarantees that it is the best way out of our current problems. We cannot at this point afford to gamble because security matters are too serious to gamble with. If anything, we should encourage them to continue to do more in their efforts. In fact, they deserve our apology for all the needless noise and distractions. ‘’If we continue like this, we may be playing into the hands of the insurgents and criminals whose desire is to see us sharply divided and polarized. We should all be on the same page as united  Nigerians to fight  the common enemy. As a war-time general, President Buhari clearly understands the issues. He has done very well. ‘’The service chiefs led by the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin have done very well by taking the fight against Nigeria’s enemies as a personal fight. We can’t forget that during Jonathan’s era, Boko Haram bombed Police Headquarters, the UN Building, Emab Plaza, Nyanya motor park in Abuja and even threatened to do more. But where are they now? ‘’Today, the terrorists are confined to Borno. Insurgency is not an easy fight; it is now underground. The reckless bombings have stopped because our soldiers and other security personnel are fighting them and risking their lives’’. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha also said that the Federal Government would not let the service chiefs go now, describing the pressure on government over the service chiefs as baseless, illogical and wrong-headed. The SGF stated: “You don’t sack people like that. There are processes and I believe that, at the appropriate time, those processes will be followed. You don’t just wake up and say sack people, it doesn’t happen like that. We are in a very difficult time. We need synergy within intelligence community, within the military formations that will help fight this war ‘’We are in a very difficult situation and when we begin to create cracks and divisions, who will be the beneficiaries? The adversaries are the ones that are going to exploit those deficiencies and further the cause of destabilizing the nation. ‘’At the moment, what we need is for everybody to be on the same page, fight the battle of securing the nation to protect lives and property and ensuring that every Nigerian has the opportunity to live a prosperous life. I think that should be our main focus’’, he said. Also reacting, a pressure group, the Conference of Civil Society  Organisation for Peace, Security and National Development led by its convener, Hon. Mike Msuaan and Comrade Adamu Kabir Matazu, organized a solidarity rally for security agencies fighting insurgency and other crimes in the country, accusing some opposition political parties of sponsoring the anti-service chiefs’ protests in parts of the country. The group said that calling for the sack of the security chiefs because of the reported upsurge of violence in the North East zone was irrational, cautioning public-spirited Nigerians against falling for the antics of those sponsoring the agitations. It specifically accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of playing politics with the unity, peace and security of Nigeria and urged the citizens to be wary of such antics which it described as pathetic and dangerous. The group argued that it was wicked of opposition political parties who should know better to be calling for a change of guard in the armed forces when so much had been done in the fight against insurgency and other forms of criminality in the country. “Nigerians are witnesses to what the security situation was and what it is now. Nigeria was on the verge of total destruct under the PDP regime following the activities of insurgents. The PDP had no strategy to curtail the menace and rather tried frankly to deny the existence of insurgency that has now suddenly got solutions. While we are not completely satisfied with the situation at the moment, we are also not unmindful of the gains made through the contributions of the current service chiefs in destroying Boko Haram and other sinister networks that pose threats to the security of Nigeria’’, the group noted. Recall that Boko Haram was founded by Mohammed Yusuf in 2002 but the sect initially started insurgency against soft targets in the North East in 2009 under the leadership of Abubakar Shekau but progressed in 2011 to the bombings of the Police Force Headquarters and the United Nations Office in Abuja. Since 2009, the campaign of violence by Boko Haram insurgents has cost at least 27,000 lives, displaced about 2 million people and created an affiliate ISWAP that has been pursuing an agenda against western education in the country to establish an Islamic Caliphate. Amplifying a call by the CDS, General Olonisakin, while speaking in Jaji, near Kaduna last week, Dr. Mike Etiare, a Diaspora scholar, frowned at the unnecessary rivalry among security agencies involved in counter-terrorism operations, saying it could undermine the intelligence-gathering strategies and tactics of the operations. He stressed the need to close the gap between the local communities and the security agencies involved in the counter-terrorism operations through robust civil-military collaboration. ‘’For example, it has been revealed that Boko Haram has good collaboration with some of the people from Auno (where many casualties were recorded recently) who frequently provide them with information on motorists’ movements. Also, our troops need more training, advanced weaponry, increased periodic reassessment of operational tactics and strategies to contend with Boko Haram’s rapidly-changing tactics’’, he said. Former military governor of Ondo State and former deputy national chairman of the PDP, Chief Olabode George described the Boko Haram war as guerilla warfare, contending that only dialogue could end the insurgency by Boko Haram and the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP). He said, “As a military man, I know it will not be over until you call for a dialogue. The federal government must engage the insurgents. It must find out what they really want. They are the same people who live among the larger population. They are not aliens that dropped from the firmament. So, how do you identify them? If the army goes all out, they will just kill so many innocent people because they do not write on their heads that they are Boko Haram. ‘’It is a guerilla warfare. Guerilla warfare goes back into history. It is not settled on the battlefield because the enemies you are fighting live among the people. It is difficult to define who the real enemies are. They will come during the day, mingle with the people and study the entire environment. In the night, they will launch attacks. It is not a normal warfare. The enemies are within, living among the people. In the day, they wear the same dress as we wear. They talk as normal human beings to gather intelligence”. The festering anti-insurgency war has raised questions in some quarters over government’s claims that Boko Haram’s capacity to launch attacks has been degraded. But facts on ground indicate clearly that the capacity of the insurgents to launch organized attacks has indeed been degraded. Brigadier-General Onyema Nwachukwu, the Acting director of Defence Information (DDI) at the Defence Headquarters in Abuja maintained that efforts being made by the military to check the rising insecurity in the country were paying off incrementally in spite of unrelenting challenges. He said, ‘’We need to realize that there is an increasing employment of the use of violence, the instruments of violence by non-state actors globally to address their grievances, to push their agenda and all that. Once we begin to look at things in this light, we will understand the fact that Nigeria is not alone in this issue of insecurity, it is a global trend. “Nigeria is not alone in this, we can talk about Iraq, Afghanistan, Europe, Somalia, within our sub-region it is happening. There is a global trend, and we should begin to look at this from a global perspective, not only from the local perspective. ‘’Now, in Nigeria, we have terrorism and insurgency in the Northeast, banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling in the Northwest. In the North Central-Benue, Nassarawa, Taraba, we are talking about banditry, herders/farmers’ clashes, and communal clashes and of course the activities of some militias. In Plateau, we have banditry, communal clashes, herders/farmers’ conflicts. “In the South-South are issues of piracy, cultism, kidnapping, oil theft, pipeline vandalism, and other sundry crimes, ritual killings. In the Southwest are issues of kidnapping, pipeline vandalism, so these challenges are emerging challenges, most of them are novel challenges and they are mostly internal security issues”. He further maintained that in the Northeast, Boko Haram had been depleted, adding that after the factionalization, the insurgents pledged allegiance to an international terrorist organization , the Islamic State in West African Province. The DDI continued: “So, it has taken an international dimension. Having been defeated in Syria and Iraq, the Islamic State wants to save the face of global terrorism by coming to take on Nigeria, by taking on the West African Sub-region. We need to begin to look at things from this dimension. “This is a new turn, this is a new development in the terrorism and insurgency situation in the Northeast. It’s happening in Nigeria, Chad, Niger and Cameroon. The major issue in the Northeast is the Islamic State of West African Province, the efforts of Islamic State to save the face of global terrorism. ‘’Remember, the oxygen of the terrorist is publicity. What the terrorist does is tactics or gimmicks and those isolated attacks and gets wide publicity, make itself look very virile and potent. As it stands today, our troops are applying the concept of Decimation, Domination and Occupation. That is why we still have governance going on. “Election was conducted in Borno State if you recall. Boko Haram attempted, the terrorists attempted to scuttle it, but our troops were relentless. So we’ve been able to defend governance, we’ve been able to defend democracy, we’ve been able to defend socio-economic development across board’’, said the Defence spokesman. ‘’I need us to look at when you’re doing analysis, a comparative analysis of the security situation, I need us to look back to what the situation was like in 2013, what the situation was like in 2014, what was the situation? Those were very dark days. Terrorism and insurgency took sway, Abuja was under siege. “The UN office, health complex was attacked, Police Force headquarters was attacked, several shopping malls were attacked, mobility was hitched and stalled because there were several checkpoints dotted everywhere. There were killings, mass killings, there were IED attacks, worship places were attacked, people couldn’t go to worship centers. Everybody was suspicious of others. “The Northeast was almost ungovernable, Boko Haram held territories, they declared a caliphate in Gwoza, they declared a spiritual headquarters in Allargamu. They almost took over the Government House in Damaturu. People had sleepless nights, and even Kano was under siege. Today, the story is not the same, we are not saying that there are no isolated cases’’. The Defence spokesman also highlighted the need for proper funding of the nation’s armed forces, saying, ‘’we are talking about budget, it’s like it is overwhelming for the nation’s economy to give N100 billion to the armed forces”. Nwachukwu added: “And we now start talking about alternative sources of funding outside the budget. The military had advocated for this over the years, to create special funds outside the budget. Nigerians must take ownership of their armed forces, it’s a people’s armed forces. ‘’It is the armed forces that Nigerians want that they will get. If you want a weakling, lame-duck armed forces, you will get. If you want the armed forces that went to Liberia and liberated Liberians, and went to Sierra Leone and liberated Sierra Leoneans, that went to Sudan, to Darfur and mediated the resolution of peace, that went to Somalia, if you want that type of armed forces, Nigerians must take ownership of their armed forces. They must fund their armed forces. You can take a cue from other climes, do a research on it and see the funding of their armed forces. Security is not cheap, without security, there can’t be socio-economic development, it affects every other sector of life’’, he explained.