Former governor of Kebbi State, Senator Muhammad Adamu Aliero, represents Kebbi Central in the Senate. In this interview with RUTH CHOJI, he speaks on the purported attack on President Muhammadu Buhari in Kebbi State recently and other salient national issues. Nigerians were shocked when a bill to ban use and sale of generators scaled through first reading in the Senate. What is your take on this? I don’t think the bill passed through the second reading because it is not possible to stop the sale and use of generators. My brother and fellow senator, Bima, who sponsored this bill must have good reasons for sponsoring that bill, but it was premature to introduce a bill to ban generators because we have not resolved the issue of power, generation distribution and  transmission. It is when you have produced enough power, transmit and distribute to the whole country that you can do that.  Even in advanced countries where there is 24 hours power supply, you hardly get a law to ban generator. We have not reached that stage yet and perhaps, there can never be a time when we will reach there because even when you have 24 hours electricity supply you may have system failure, when that happens, there is need for a standby generator. When you go to places like United States of America and Britain where they have constant power supply, they still have standby generators to ensure uninterrupted power supply, talk less of a developing country like Nigeria. Maybe when we reach 90 per cent in all aspect of electricity, then  we can think along that line. It may surprise you to know that, there are communities in Nigeria today that get light from generator for a token. I doubt if that bill can scale through second reading or survive public hearing.  With other bills like “hate speech bill, anti-social media bill, bill on rehabilitating insurgents and sending them abroad,” some Nigerians are beginning to  believe that the red chamber is disconnected from the people it represent? The hate speech bill is a good bill because we don’t want Nigeria to be another Rwanda. The way social media is spreading remours is dangerous. It needs some form of regulations.   It was through social media that President Buhari was said to have gotten married and this is something he never contemplated. The story went wild all over the world. The president and the lady were both embarrassed. If people want to write something, they should do it in a way that it will not affect the other person negatively. You are free to say whatever you want to say, but your freedom ends where another person`s right begins. You have no right to malign innocent people. People are being convicted in the social media without trial. In some countries, it is regulated and it is working out fine. Initially when the social media bill was introduced in the 8th Senate, there was public outcry but the chief justice of the federation supported it when it went to public hearing because he said there must be some control in the social media. However, the bill was killed during the public hearing.  Now the government saw the wisdom of reintroducing this bill. The minister of information said, there must be some control in the activities of social media because it can cause disharmony and so many things that are against the unity and tranquility of this country are being said through the social media. If we don’t control it, it will negatively affect the country. Some of us in the Senate feel that, there is freedom of the press, they can say anything they want, but it must be the truth. There must be verification of information before it goes to the media. You don’t just sit in the comfort of your room and write any junk without verifying it. But this is a government that came to power through the influence of social media. It is not true. I disagree with you. We didn’t come through propaganda. President Buhari contested elections in 2003, 2007, 2011 and in 2015, he contested and won. So he won because of his popularity, determination and sincerity. He has grass root support. Nigerians are beginning to think that the president`s popularity is weaning with the way he was booed in Maiduguri and the alleged attack  in Kebbi when he attended the Argungu International Fishing and Cultural Festival. So you also believe he was attacked? It is not true because I was there. We had finished the agricultural show and wanted to take photographs close to a Rice pyramid. A gentleman came and said he wants to greet the president by shaking his hands. That gentleman is an ardent supporter of President Buhari, he even wrote a book about the qualities of the president, unfortunately, he breached protocol. He wanted to show the president the book he wrote on him. It was out of genuine love that made him rush to shake the president. So the media is being mischievous by reporting that he wanted to attack the president. On the Maiduguri issue, I wasn’t there but it is possible the people acted based on the rise on insecurity. Remember it was immediately after some people were killed outside the city gate. It was also at that time, some Nigerians were calling for the sacking of service chiefs.  I think it was because the anger of innocent travelers that were killed outside Maiduguri. By and large, I think Mr. president has massive support of the grass root in Nigeria.  Still on the Senate, some Nigerians were worried when the Senate gave Mr. president the nod to source for more loans. Don’t you think this is  a loan too many considering our  rising foreign debt profile? Our debt to GDP ratio support the loan and it was out of patriotism that the Senate approved the loan. We need the loan to improve our infrastructural facilities in the country.  But it was reported that the House of Representatives suspended the loan request? I am not aware that the House has suspended the loan, but if there is disagreement, we will setup a committee or have a joint sitting where the grey areas will be ironed out. The loan will be used for roads, railway, poverty reduction and some states like Kaduna, Kogi are also going to benefit from the loan. Look at the Mambilla Hydroelectric Project, this government took the decision to start the project because once completed, it will generate about 3,500megawatts of electricity to our national grid which is more than what we are generating now.  I doubt if the House of Representatives will reject it because we both have the interest of Nigerians at heart.  With the way both chambers accede to any bill or motion sent to its chambers by the federal government, don’t you think this has given credence to the allegation that the leadership of the National Assembly is an appendage of the executive? We are not working in conflict with the executive arm of government. We are working for the interest of Nigerians. We do what we think is in the best interest of Nigeria. If the executive sends a request that we feel will not benefit Nigerians, we will reject it even if it is to be sent 10 times by the president. We jealously guard our independence. We have been working collaboratively with the executive arm. We are not here to fight anyone. The three arms of government are inter-related, we work together for the interest of the nation. Nobody is a stooge. 