President of the Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ECCIMA), Sir Emeka Nwandu, has said that measures have been put in place to ensure that outbreak of coronavirus does not affect the forthcoming 31st Enugu International Trade Fair, billed for March 13 to March, 23, 2020. The chamber president also informed that despite the spread of the deadly Coronavirus, many foreign countries including India, China and Japan have indicated interest to participate in the fair. He however disclosed that China will be represented by their people already residing in Nigeria at the fair. Nwandu assured that the closure of the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu will not affect the fair, stating that those who are desirous to come to the Fair by air could use the Imo Airport or the Asaba Airport in Delta State. “The closure of Enugu Airport may not affect the Enugu International Trade Fair because participants can come from Owerri or Asaba Airport to the Fair,” he said. Nwandu seized the opportunity to call on the federal government to fully develop Enugu International Trade Fair Complex so that it would be conducive like the Kaduna and the Lagos trade fair complexes. The ECCIMA president who briefed journalists in Enugu on their preparation for the International trade fair, with a theme, “Advancing the Growth of SMEs through Corporate Governance for Rapid Development,” said precautionary measures have been put in place to ensure a successful fair in Enugu. According to him, despite the challenges in the economic environment especially the closing down of the Akanu-Ibiam International airport, Enugu, this year’s International Trade Fair would boost technological advancement by encouraging the participation of researchers, inventors and creative thinkers as a nexus towards commercialisation of research findings.    “The Fair would also give a lot of attention towards boosting the agricultural sector and particularly commercial farming for the much needed job creation and food security with the attendant linkages and value chain benefits through processing of raw materials/agro-allied industries. The ECCIMA boss maintained that the Fair would further propel the development of the small and medium enterprises which is key to the nation’s development, adding that they would continue to upgrade facilities in the fair complex within their limited resources. “It is heartwarming to note that Enugu State remains a very peaceful landscape and since we began the hosting of the Enugu International Trade Fair, we have not experienced any security breach and we remain optimistic and prayerful that the 31st edition will not be an exception.”