Chieftain of the governing Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Taraba State and founder of Development Alternatives Large Global (DALL Global), Hon Aliyu Hurso, carpeted groups and individuals calling for the resignation of governor Darius Ishaku from office as Governor of Taraba State, saying the governor has done nothing wrong but only taking a rest after taking treatment due to domestic accident in Abuja. Hurso in a press statement in Abuja lampooned a group under the name Arewa Youth Assembly which recently called on Governor Ishaku to transmit power to his deputy or resign as Governor of Taraba State, following his absence from the state. He said the governor can operate from anywhere since he abide the fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy, Section 13, 14 (2) a, b, and c (3) (4) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Arewa Youth Assembly, in conjunction with other civil society organisations in an online publication recently called for the resignation of Governor Ishaku for taking a rest in Abuja following medical treatment. In a statement signed by the publicity secretary of the group, Ahmed Abdulmalik, allegedly said the call became necessary as the governor had been out of his duty post for about 80 days. Hurso said by calling on the governor to transmit power or resign, the group has shown that they are not interested in the peace and development of Taraba State as the machinery of governance in the state is operating without any hindrance even without the physical presence of the governor in the state. He said the appointees of Governor Ishaku alongside the deputy governor of Taraba State, Engr Haruna Manu, have been working with the directives of the governor without complaints from the people of Taraba State, therefore it is needless to spur up the polity with statements that will distort the peace the people of Taraba have been enjoying under the tutelage of Governor Ishaku. Hurso said: “The so called youth assembly is nothing rather than ‘‘shiny objects,’’ that rely on the same principles of distraction, outrage and misdirection and most of them where not from Taraba State, They were being hired and sponsored by some disgruntled elements inside and outside the state to cause disaffection among Tarabans and paint the administration of our governor in bad light before the whole world. “Most Tarabans are behind Governor Darius Ishaku that was why last month the State House of Assembly passed a vote of confidence on His Excellency ‘The Rescue Pilot’.” Hurso also called on the people of Taraba State to continue their support and prayers for the success of the administration of Governor Ishaku to sustain the developmental strides that has impacted on their lives in the past five years. “I want to call on the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), Northern Governors Forum, Northern Elders Forum, Arewa Consultative Forum, civil society organisations and other youth groups to ignore the protest threats by the group as they do not mean well for the development of the state. I wish Governor Ishaku quick and speedy recovery and long life.”