….36.3 doctors Per 100,000 Population …74,543 registered medical doctors ….1551 doctors applied To Leave in 2018 The Nigeria Health Workforce Country Profile-2018, launched Wednesday by the federal government, has revealed that the country has one doctor to 2,753 population whereas the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends one doctor to 600 population. The statistics also showed that the number of medical doctors registered with the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) is 74,543 which equates to 36.3 medical doctors per 100,000 population, doctor to population ratio of 1: 2753). The Head, Human Resources for Health (HRH), Federal Ministry of Health, Shakusi Kadiri, presented the data during the launch of the Profile and Handing Over of the National Health Workforce Registry, yesterday in Abuja. He said, although there was a decline from the numbers recorded in 2007, there is a progressive increase in the numbers from 656 in 2014 to 1551 medical doctors applying for letters of good standing or verification standing (a proxy for migration) in 2018. In his keynote address, the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, said the registry is a single and authoritative source of authenticated and validated health workforce information in the country, which provides up-to-date information on all health workers under the employment of national and sub-national entities in both public and private sectors of the national health system. Speaking at the event, the WHO Officer in Charge, Nigeria, Dr. Clement Peters, said the Nigeria Health Workforce Registry serves as a database for accurate and timely evidence-based health workforce information and it links health workers to administrative units and health facilities. According to him “The registry demonstrates Nigeria’s significant progress in achieving the Global Strategy for Human Resources for Health: Workforce 2030 milestone of every country having a registry to track health workforce dynamics and sharing HRH data annually through the National Health Workforce Accounts. “It also sets the foundation for achieving the goal of the Strategic Pillar 3 and Priority Area 9 of the Second National Strategic Health Development Plan 2018 – 2022 of having in place the right number, skill mix of competent, motivated, productive and equitably distributed health workforce for optimal and quality health care service provision.” Peters informed that the WHO, with funding from the Government of Canada developed the prototype of the Registry, using the iHRIS Manage framework which is being used in several countries globally. He said “WHO also supported the roll out of the registry in Bauchi and Cross River States with funding from the Government of Canada through the Global Affairs Canada; Anambra and Sokoto States with funding from the European Union; Borno, Adamawa, Abia, Osun, Niger and Edo with funding from the Government of Japan and WHO. We are also in the process of concluding the registry for Yobe State.” 