The Minister of Water Resources, Engr. Adamu Sulaiman, has pledged to complete the 20 abandoned Chouchi Irrigation project in Adamawa state. Suleiman on tour of the projects in Yola, assured that the 15-year-old contract rate would be reviewed to give the project quick start. He said the ministry is planning a separate study on the River Niger and Benue’s master plan for protection against flooding and reclaiming of encroached land. He reiterated that, abandoned project that have value for the people would be priority inline with the agricultural diversification of the present administration. According to him, transition of the project was poorly managed hence the need to utilize the potential of the arable irrigation field. “Am not happy with the project, my coming has confirmed my fear that a lot of projects cannot be seen visible. “Now that it has become my responsibility, I need to make sure that the project is completed.” He assured that, issues related with conversion of source of power from diesel to solar panels, for sustainability of the project would be resolved. “Visiting the project could help me make an informed decision on how the project can move forward” as technical experts and the contractor would be mobilized for continuation of the project. The minister commissioned mini rehabilitated and upgraded Mbamoyi water supply scheme, where 150,000 people are expected to benefit from 500 cubic meter tank. Earlier, Engr Abubakar Muazu, Managing Director UBRBDA, identified cost of diesel to the cultivation of less than 500 hectares of land in Gerio irrigation field. Muazu further said, the yearly perennial flood, where equipment are evacuated to and from the central store, as some of the challenges bedeviling the irrigation project. The consultant of the project, Engr Tony John laments over encroachment of land where filling stations are built indiscriminately along canals on the irrigation on the field. The abandoned N5billion Chouchi irrigation project, was re-awarded in 1999 which was handed over by the defunct Petroleum (Special) Trust Fund (PTF) to Impresit Bakolori with the completion duration fixed for 24 dry-season months. 