The Federal Character Commission (FCC) has declared commitment to equitable distribution of posts, socio – economic facilities and infrastructure across the country for even development. The acting executive chairman of FCC, Amb Abdullahi Shinkafi, stated this at the Critical Stakeholders Round-table with the theme: “Integrated Strategic Partnership with Critical Stakeholders and Advocacy on Balanced Development” organised by FCC yesterday in Abuja. Shinkafi said, “The Federal Character Principle is founded on the need to foster national unity and cohesion, sense of belonging and loyalty through equitable distribution of Nigeria’s human and material resources in such a manner as to engender a balanced sustainable development across the country. “The Federal Character Commission is saddled with the responsibility of promoting, monitoring and enforcing compliance with the principles of proportional sharing of bureaucratic, economic, media and political posts at all levels of government. “The Commission under its functions for the distribution of posts, socio – economic facilities and infrastructure is to work out equitable formula that would ensure equitable spread across the country. “We also promote Persons Living with Disability,” he said. He noted that the commission would take legal measures for prosecution of the heads or staff of any Ministry, Extra- Ministerial Department or Agency which fails to comply with any federal character principle or formula prescribed or adopted by the Commission. FCC boss further said that the commission would harness the appropriate tools to advise government where investments should be channeled to, either to create more jobs opportunities or sitting of projects that shall guarantee national unity and cohesion among the federating units. Also speaking, the Secretary to the Commission, Barr. Mohammed Bello Tukur, said the programme came at a time that the commission is harnessing data that would serve as tools for advising the federal government of Nigeria on how and where to direct or channel its investments. “For the sustainability of growth and development across the table are carefully selected to brainstorm with the Commission so as to provide a road map in this direction,” he said. Adding that the programme will also prepare a policy that would implement the mandate of equitable distribution of socio services, economic amenities and infrastructural facilities in Nigeria. 