Dr Mahmoud Alhassan is a Ophthalmologist Consultant and the Chief Medical Director, National Eye Centre, Kaduna. In this interview with SUNDAY ISUWA, the fellow of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine said the hospital carried out successful eye transplants recently and will soon commence the second batch of the exercise. Excerpts. How do you monitor the staff relationship with patients? Well, it is by constant communication. We have various means of monitoring. Patients go through our service areas and then using the communication network with the staff at various service point whether is a staff record point or Nurse, Laboratory technician or a Laboratory Scientist, a Nurse or Doctor and then the feedback is through SERVICOM or through our public relations unit. That’s a network of communication and network through which we make sure our patients get the best. And we have encouraged our parents to speak out, good or bad through the SERVICOM and the staff are everywhere in the hospital. How many patients get treated in this hospital monthly? The least number we have in a month is 6,000 patients. It’s 48, 000 patients yearly. What are the common eye ailments you treat in this hospital? Eye problems are very diverse but the common problem that affects vision is the very known Cataracts and Glaucoma in adults. Now many issues are coming up. People who are diabetic face problems that make them to bleed inside the eye because of the sugar. There are other issues that could also lead to blindness like itching, infections and defective errors – which is those people who need to use glasses. So, one needs to be careful because a simple problem can lead to a big problem when it comes to the eye. One needs to use the drugs approprately. Are most of the eye problems genetical or just environmental issues? Yeah, disease generally is caused by different issues but it could be genetical or environmental. It’s all about what we eat. So, most diseases are link or traced to genetics, environmental and what you eat, your diet. But in the eye, the diseases that are linked to genetic are Glaucoma and related damage to the back of the eye. What has been the progress of this hospital since your takeover as the CMD? We have made tremendous progress. In the area of training, we have expanded. We are training in all areas like Nurses, both qualified and pre-qualified nurses that specializes in the eye. We trained more doctors to become eyes specialists and we also expand the scope of the training for them to specialise on Glaucoma, Cataract and other related issues. In the area of service delivery, we have made tremendous progress. We are now able to take care of so many people the hospital was referring to other hospitals before. People who have Retinal detachment, people who have complications in the eye from diabetes, people who need cornea transplant, we’ve done the first batch and will soon do the second batch hopefully in two weeks time when we get the donor, but now we import the cornea outside the country. The retina is a light-sensitive membrane located at the back of the eye. When light passes through your eye, the lens focuses an image on your retina. The retina converts the image to signals that it sends to your brain through the optic nerve. The retina works with the cornea, lens, and other parts of your eye and brain to produce normal vision. We’ve also made tremendous progress in treating young children with cancer, we called it Glaucoma. We are going to publicize it with or without the vision because we were able to keep them alive. Those young children with big tumors, retinoblastoma – a childhood cancer were treated so it’s a big progress. It’s better if we are able to pick those children with such problem early. We are also producing customized eyes. People who have lost their eyes and want to look beautiful or handsome, we will measure their eyes and make a customized eye for them to help them look more beautiful and handsome. If we do a customized eye for you, people won’t know you had an eye problem before, even your enemies. You won’t see but cosmetically, you will look more beautiful or handsome and your loved ones that might have runaway will start coming back to you. The tumour affecting the children, is it common? Yes, it is comon and it is happening all over the world not just in Nigeria or the Northern part of the country. But as a big hospital, you know this is the end of the road. So, the best thing is to bring those children early before the tumour grows big and destroys the eye. On the school of Nursing you are running here, Can these nurses compete with others? Yeah, we’ve always taken first position in the national exams. We’ve produced many average health workers here. This is one of our key mandate to produce more health workers in various cadres. In fact, last two years ago, we got 100 percent in the pass rate. It’s our flagship training programme with the residency for doctors who want to become eye professionals. We also train others too. We train eye technicians to manage eye equipment. The hospital is looking conducive, which means that you’ve been taking good care of the structure. What about the personnel? Yes, that is more important. If you take care of the manpower, they will give you the best. So, staff welfare has been a priority. We’ve also been training the staff on new skills because the world is moving forward with new technology emerging every day. Some staff will come and tell you they want this kind of training or that. You have to give them what they want. You did mention the issue of eye transplant. Do you have the capacity? Cornea transplant to be specific, yes we have the capacity. We have well trained Cornea specialists and they were trained abroad. We have the capacity and we’ve even done the first batch of cornea transplant. But as I said earlier, the challenge is getting the donors. We have four different cornea specialist doctors trained abroad for the transplant. We have a list of people who can’t see and as we get these cornea from donors, we do the transplant. We are expecting about three pieces of the cornea and we will give priority to people who cannot see because we have all the list of people that need it just like we did for Cataract. Last year, you purchased some equipment. How do these machines improve service delivery? Interestingly, those equipment were purchased for cornea transplant. They are used to access the cornea whether it is good or bad. The equipment are what we are using for the eye transplant and all the equipment purchased are working. They are here in the hospital and we are using them. You’ve just been appointed by president Muhammadu Buhari for another term of four years. What are the main goals you want to achieve in this tenure? Well, the target actually is our vision to be the best in service delivery in Africa. And our mission is to be the best to Nigerians and whoever that steps into this place. What is the relationship between the management and the staff in your organization? It has been quite challenging but cordial. You can bite your tongue. Sometimes you have challenges of communication where the right information is not disseminated. Sometimes you see one or two persons that might not be happy, but big establishments sometimes are faced with these kind of issues. We’ve not had a strike in this hospital. If there is any problem it’s always from the national. Even our rivals, the health workers union gave me an award and the hospital is not owing staff salary. So, the relationship is cordial.