…to write other European countries to assist Nigeria in war against terrorism Over 500 members of the Coalition of Civil Society Group representing 36 different civil society organisations have passed a vote of confidence on Service Chiefs over war against insurgency in the north east militancy in the Niger Delta region and other criminality across the country. Members of the group, who converged in Abuja, the Nation’s Capital city, on Monday to appraise the call for the relieve of the current Service Chiefs stated this during a World Press Conference. The resolutions of the group after its meeting was contained in an addressed jointly signed by Comrade Etuk Bassey Williams and Comrade Abubakar Ibrahim, National President and Secretary respectively. He also applauded the noble gesture of the US President Donald Trump for approving $2.5 million ransom for the arrest of the leader of Boko Haram, Abubakar Shekau. He revealed that it has concluded plans to soon write all European countries to join the US in assisting Nigeria in it’s war against insurgency in the Northeast and other security challenges facing the country. Comrade Etuk said in the statement titled, “An appraisal of the performance of the service chiefs in the fight against insurgency in Nigeria” that the the Service Chiefs and the Nigerian Military are no doubt winning the war against insurgency. He noted that, “The renewed Vigour and tact engendered by the Service Chiefs and particularly Chief of Army Staff: Lt Gen Tukur Buratai has yielded a very appreciable success in their efforts to completely defeat Boko Haram. “Today we have witnessed high enthusiasm and confidence been expressed by the gallant soldiers in the battlefield as instilled in them by the commanders. While restating the position of the group on the service chiefs, he said, “We the members of the Coalition of Civil Society Group pass a vote of confidence on the service Chiefs and the entire Nigeria Military.” He therefore, called on Nigerians to shun any view or positions motivated by ethnic or political interest and support the Service Chiefs and the entire military with prayer and useful information to enable end then insurgency and return peace to the affected areas. He added that, “we strongly hope that victory is certain and it is near.” He earlier observed that the dexterity with which the Military is curbing insecurity in the Northeast and other parts of the country has yielded laudable achievements. “Today, incidences of bombs detonating at our Worship Centres, Market, Motor parks, Government buildings and other strategic places has disappeared and is no more a recurring event except for very few insignificant cases,” he stated. He said, “It was observed that Nigerians in the city centres are no more keeping vigil in anticipation of a likely attack by the Boko Haram terrorist, the agony of insecurity and fear of unknown has eluded the major cities except the fringes of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa States. “It is true that a lot has been achieved by the present crop of service chiefs, not just in the battle field but also in disabusing the forcefully recruited members of the Boko Haram as many have repented and have willingly surrendered to the Nigerian Army. “Unlike before, the Nigerian Military has prioritised training and equipping of its Soldiers with modern military hardware. More than ever before the welfare of our military personnel has gained more attention. “It is true that the terrorists are no more in control of any territory and today Boko Haram have been ousted from the last stronghold in the Sambisa forest effectively reducing and disorganising the group. “It is true that thousands of captives have been freed from the hands of the insurgents and many of the insurgents are surrendering to the Nigerian Army as a result of intensive effort and gallantry.” Further restating the position of the group, Comrade Etuk said, For us in the Civil Society, it is gratifying to observe the many progress of our gallant troops as they match towards total victory against the insurgents. We must not fail to appreciate and commend the service chiefs and the entire military for their successes. We salute the courageous effort of the military, and call on Nigerians to pray and wish that the enthusiasm to make Nigeria again will not be in vain. We mourn with the bereaved and salute the sacrifices made by the gallant soldiers who laid the lives for our comfort peace. We celebrate your gallantry, commitment and patriotism to your fatherland; the successes against the insurgent are testament to the capacity of the service chiefs, especially Lt Gen, Tukur Buratai: the chief of the Army Staff.”