The Association of Licenced Private Security Practitioners of Nigeria (ALPSPN) has reiterated its call for registered members to bear arms. It decried reports discrediting the initiative of the practitioners for the arming of their employees. Reacting to an editorial published by a national newspaper (not LEADERSHIP) in a statement signed by the national president of ALPSPN, Mr Wilson Esangbedo, said that the editorial was a fallout of the association’s appeal to the minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, for private security guards to be permitted to bear arms. While commenting on the issue of minimum wage for its personnel, Esangbedo said that it is a nation-wide challenge which even state governments with huge allocations from the Federation Account are finding it hard to implement. He, however, said that the association has fared better in the remuneration and working conditions for its personnels more than most organisations. The statement reads in part: ‘’It is gratifying to note that the newspaper did not fault the argument of the ALPSPN on the global examples of private security guards bearing arms, rather the newspaper dwelled on other industry issues such as minimum wage, alleged ostentatious and lavish lifestyles of chief executives of private security firm owners and clerical functions of some private security guards where they are posted to. ‘’It is something of a surprise to insinuate, conjure and engage in red herring that private security firm owners live in opulence. Most of those engaged in providing added security services to organisations and individuals have staked all their long services and investment in this venture. To give a dog a bad name is unfortunate. Our members live modestly and contributed greatly to the economy of this country.’’ Esangbedo said it is true that some of its workers are assigned tasks which is not in their operational manual by those they are assigned to. ‘’It happens even to the police, other paramilitary services and even the military,’’ he added.