…As Death Toll Hits 20 Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Monday set up a high-profile committee to investigate the remote and immediate cause of the Sunday morning explosions which left a large-scale destruction in its trail. The governor who visited the scene of the explosion with his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, and members of the State Executive Council Sanwo-Olu equally announced a N2 billion Emergency Relief Fund for victims of the explosion, fire incident. The Governor, who described the incident as “a disturbing development”, constituted a fact-finding Committee to immediately launch an investigation into the remote cause of the explosion. The committee, to be chaired by both Dr. Hamzat and Commissioner for Special Duties, Mr. Omotayo Bamgbose-Martins, has 14 days to submit its findings. On the N2 billion Emergency Relief Fund for the victims of the explosion he said the state government would immediately release of N250 million into the Funds to provide instant relief for those affected by the explosion. His words, ‘’ “I am also setting up Abule-Ado Shobar Emergency Relief Fund. Its a N2 billion relief fund and we will put N250million into it. We also have some banks that are going to support us. This will allow some individual to also donate into the account. Part of the relief fund will be used to settle displaced citizens and pay hospital bills. I will meet with Mr President tomorrow to give him a report of the incident and we will be seeking assistance of the federal government,” Sanwo-Olu said. Sanwo-Olu said he would be meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari later yesterday to brief him on the incident, stressing that Lagos required the cooperation and support of the Federal Government in dealing with the situation. The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, (LASEMA) had on Sunday said 17 dead bodies had been recovered from the Abule Ado explosion. As of the time of filling this report, three more corpses said to be workers of Bethlehem Girls College, consisting of two females and one male were recovered on Monday by emergency responders combing the buildings affected by the explosion. The corpses were recovered from the rubble of some of the collapsed buildings at the Bethlehem Girls College in Abule-Ado. 