The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has expressed optimism of Collective Investment Scheme (CIS) or Mutual funds in the capital market hitting N1.5 trillion before the end of the year. CIS also known as Mutual Funds is an arranged pool of funds managed on behalf of investors by a professional money manager which may invest in; ventures capital, portfolio of stocks Bonds and other securities. Acting director-general of SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, stated this at the Capital Market Correspondents Association of Nigeria (CAMCAN) forum sponsored by the commission in Lagos at the weekend. Uduk said the Commission was setting up more strategies to develop the mutual fund segment in the Nigerian Capital Market. Uduk who was represented by the head, Office of Economics at SEC, Mr Okey Umeano, noted that the segment which currently stands at N1.2 trillion is growing and urged retail investors to use the funds as a means to access the market. “In any advanced market, the Collective Investment Scheme forms a very big part of the market. We at the Commission have discovered that some of the investors who lost their savings during the crisis in 2008 are low on confidence. That is the reason why we are encouraging retail investors to go through these mutual funds because they are set up and approved by the Commission.” She said that “Currently the size of the segment stands at N1 trillion but we expect it to grow much higher. We are urging retail investors and high net worth investors to use the mutual funds route to enter the market,” Uduk said. Corroborating her, divisional head, Economic, Research and Policy Management, SEC, Dr Afolabi Olowookere, noted that the commission expects to see a significant rise of N1.5 trillion or N2 trillion in mutual funds, saying that about 480,000 investors had keyed into that the investment segment. Uduk also noted that domestic investors’ transactions in January outperformed foreign investors’ execution by 40 per cent, which accounted for N70.32 billion, saying that breakdown of domestic investors transactions show that the domestic institutional transactions accounted for N83.47 billion, while domestic retail transactions stood at N81.67 billion. Uduk said the trend re-emphasised the need for increase retail investors’ participation in the market, stressing that the importance of not allowing uncertainties dampen our resolve to attain the strong capital market of the nation’s dream. 