For almost seven months now, the 33 local government and local council development areas in Oyo State have been without the supervision of elected local government functionaries. This comes as a result of an impasse over administration. ADEBAYO WAHEED writes. The state governor, Engineer Oluwaseyi Abiodun Makinde had on May 29, 2019, announced the sack of the council chairmen and further dissolved the state Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) and promised to pay them all their employment for their five years term. However, these actions by the governor was opposed to majority by the Association of Local Government of Nigeria ALGON. The leadership of the association vehemently opposed not the sack of the elected local government functionaries but that of the dissolution of OYSIEC. Despite the opposition, Governor Seyi Makinde went ahead to inaugurate 68 local government chairmen for the 33 local  government and 35 local council development areas in the state. As a result, the sacked council chairmen threatened to make the inauguration impossible as they vowed to occupy the council secretariats, which they did and this led to an impasse in the council administration and led to the loss of life and several others injured. The intervention of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mallam Abubakar Malami in trying to expose the Supreme Court judgment on the administration of local government administration, and dissolution of local government executives by the state governors did not help matters. To avert bloodshed in the councils, the leadership of the state National Union of Local Government Employee (NULGE), called on its members to stay away from their offices. The ‘stay at home order’ left the council a grave yard, as all activities relating to administration was paralysed. Rather than taking to the AGF’s directive, the governor visited the IGP Adamu on the issue, insisting that there should not be any bloodshed in the state. On returning from Abuja, Makinde promised to abide by the appeal court judgment on the matter. However, the governor had reversed his statement, calling for out-of-court settlement which had been scuttled twice. While ALGON accused the government team of frustrating the out-of-court settlement, the government team alleged that ALGON had come with the aim of frustrating the exercise. Counsel to the state government, Dr. Akin Onigbinde while moving the application on the proposal, urged the court to give parties in the matter the opportunity to settle the case amicably for  the sake of  peace in the state. He said the arrangement would favor all parties in the case, promising that every party would be given opportunity to express their mind to ensure peace in the state local government. He told the court that the parties would come back to court if the process failed. However, Counsel to defendant, Chief Niyi Akintola expressed distrust on the state government, describing the proposal as delay tactic to prolong the matter. Another Counsel to the defendant, Mr. Kunle Sobaloju observed that except pending cases on the dissolution of local government were resolved, such settlement might not work. The Counsel therefore requested short adjourned date for the case. Responding to various arguments, the Presiding Judge, Justice Moshood Abass urged stakeholders in the matter to take progress of the state as a priority. Justice Abass who commended the maturity of the counsel in the case promised that justice would be done in the matter. Reacting to the impasse, the All Progressives Congress (APC) condemned what it described as the return of insecurity and anarchy over the crisis on local government administration in the state. The political party in a statement signed by AbdulAzeez Olatunde, the party’s Publicity Secretary noted that the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) led government in the state, had worsened insecurity than when APC met it, and was taken aback with the degeneration of the Peaceful State handed over to the PDP-government of Makinde on the 29th of May 2019. “Honestly, any lover of academics would be ashamed at the oscillating contradiction on a television programme on Monday 3rd February 2020, while he was to defend a bad case of Seyi EYI Makinde executive rascality of extra judicial pronouncement of sacking Elected Council Chairmen. “Imagine Oyo State AG and Justice Commissioner admitting that Nigeria is operating a Federal System of Government which guarantees Independence for the three tiers of Government in which Oyo AG freely and happily quoted the Supreme Court judgement of Federal Government versus Lagos State on one hand, but hypocritically refused to acknowledge the similarity in the Supreme Court verdict of Olubunmi versus Ekiti State Government, which is applicable to the constitutional logjam we are experiencing in Oyo State, on which premise AGF Abubakar Malami intervened in Oyo State local government logjam. “Several times, Oyo State government and its party, PDP, had rolled out a lot of fibs to the undiscerning public of restraining injunction against 12th May 2018 local government elections in Oyo State and APC Oyo State has challenged the government and his party, PDP several times to no avail, to produce the restraining injunction with the name of the Judges that made the pronouncement. “Too bad that the pivotal stand of this PDP Government is built on falsehood and propaganda, no wonder that our Learned Oyo AG and Justice Commissioner would be so audacious to claim on a national television channel that the government of Seyi Makinde sacking of local government chairmen was informed by the audit of infrastructure left behind by its predecessor, all within 12-24 hours of assumption of office”, it said. According to APC, the sad tale of the present ongoing scenario is the return to anarchy in Oyo State, with the Oyo Government hatchet men chasing the elected council chairmen and councillors from their various homes since a week now, which had resulted to injury to scores of our party stalwarts and reported death yet to be confirmed figures of our party members. “While Seyi Makinde was in court for his Governorship Election, President Muhammadu Buhari never asked him to step aside, we are surprised at the interpretation of the Federal System of Government as it is applicable to the PDP government of Seyi Makinde asking elected council officials, to step aside and then appoint caretaker committee chairmen to usurp their positions when the government openly admitted that the elected officials have litigation against Oyo State. “It is very unfortunate that Oyo State that has been peaceful for eight years under APC-led government of  Abiola Ajimobi, would in less than one year of transition of power to PDP government revert to chaos, brigandage and violence”, it said. The party, however appealed to those who have the ears of the governor to advice him to wake up to his constitutional responsibility of protecting lives, and properties of all residents of Oyo State irrespective of party affinity. APC called on the security agencies to be proactive by ensuring all agents of violence were put in check, and equally appealed to all the stakeholders in the affairs of Oyo State to please sheath their swords and give peace a chance. “APC government of Senator Abiola Ajimobi brought peace to Oyo State for eight years (2011-2019). APC stands for peace and will never support whatever will truncate peaceful coexistence of Oyo State residents”, it said. The party advised Makinde to please wake up, saying “It is our belief that nobody’s political ambition deserves the blood letting already experienced.” It sympathised with the family of those who lost their siblings to the avoidable blood letting as well as wish quick healing and recovery to the injured. But the state government through the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof. Oyelowo Oyewo, declared that the intervention of the Federal Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, on the dissolution of local government leadership in the state was selective and as a result of lack of proper briefing. Oyewo, who stated this while appearing on a Channels TV programme, ‘Sunrise Daily’, maintained that the AGF was not properly briefed on the local government situation in the state. According to him, the dissolved council chairmen were not properly constituted, having emerged from an election that was held in disobedience to an existing court order. “If he [AGF] were to be aware of the fact that the matter was sub judice, probably he would not have taken such wanton, liberal interpretation of his powers. His powers are guided by law, by the constitution of the land and as interpreted by the court”, he said. Oyewo added that the AGF lacked the power at large to enforce judgment without going through the process of the enforcement of judgment, in compliance with the rules of the court that gave the judgment. He said that Malami’s actions were partisan and not based on the Constitution, noting that though many APC-controlled states were operating caretaker committees and had dissolved elected local government leadership, policemen have not been sent to enforce “anybody’s rights as it were.” Oyewo stated that though his office was not served with the AGF’s letter dated 14th January, 2020 and that the letter only came to its notice on 22nd January, 2020, due to the seriousness of the letter, it penned a rejoinder to the AGF in which it made the following facts clear. “One; there is no such Supreme Court judgment against Oyo State. Two, the Attorney General of the Federation does not have power, at large, to be enforcing judgment without going through the process of enforcement of the judgment in compliance with the rules of the court that gave the judgment. “As if that was not alarming enough, a letter was written through the Inspector General of Police giving a direction that was supposed to be given to the chairman of APC in Oyo State and the chairman of ALGON to, as it was, reinstate local government and LCDA chairmen who have a matter in court against the Oyo State government. And the matter at that time was, and still is, at the court of Appeal. “We wrote this to bring to the attention of the Inspector General of Police and, at the same time, we took steps before the proper forum for it to be decided, which is before the court, and that seemed to have untamed the ravaging effort of the Police and the people that they were trying to use. “As you have heard, there was violence and all that, but carefully an ex parte order was granted against any further action of such parties without any court order that is emanating to give priority to the AGF or the Inspector General of Police to take those actions.” According to Oyewo, the AGF’s actions were clearly not based on law or the Constitution of the land but purely partisan. He further said:  “Basically, the Attorney General of the Federation will have his reasons but they are not based on the Constitution. They are not based on law, because it [the action] was so partisan. You do not write a letter to the chairman of a party in a state directing the Governor to review. “We run a federal system of government. If there is anything, and this has been settled by the Supreme Court, even under the regime of President [Olusegun] Obasanjo, where there was a dispute as to the creation of local governments and the government withheld the funds of Lagos State, the Supreme Court came out. If you have such issues you go to court and that was what we have done.” Responding to the question on whether Governor Makinde had the powers to dissolve elected local governments chairmen, Prof. Oyewo noted that the election that brought the chairmen in was null and void, as it was conducted against an existing court order, which invalidated the constitution of the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission. He added that the Makinde administration inherited litigations between the sacked APC local government chairmen and the APC-controlled State Government under Senator Abiola Ajimobi, and that the existence of a stay of execution on a judgment secured by the sacked chairmen left a vacuum in the local councils. He stated that Governor Makinde only filled the vacuum pending the resolution of the matters or the time his administration could conduct a proper election into the local governments. The Oyo AG said: “I think I have to give background to that. Before the present administration came into existence, the previous administration of Governor Ajimobi ran the caretaker committee system for seven years. “In the twilight of that administration, against an existing court order that invalidated the composition of the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission and also any attempt to use that [OYSIEC] to conduct that election, is null and void. “Be that as it may, towards the twilight, it was supposed to be a booby trap so that by the time our administration comes in, irrespective of the mandate of the people that there should be a party alternation from APC to PDP, we now had to have an administration of APC at the local governments. “Now, that is not even a problem. The matter is, that same APC local government composition went to court against Governor Ajimobi, which is the case that we inherited challenging the State Government because they heard rumours that the Governor wanted to dissolve them. “Before we came in, the pleadings were there; Ajimobi said ‘I am not going to sack you’ and the matter should have ended there. “But for one reason or the other, the judgment was given against the Government and that became the subject matter of appeal. That appeal led to a stay of execution and because there was a stay, there was a vacuum. “And, of course, don’t forget that under Section 7 of the constitution, the State Government makes laws and there is the local government law that regulate the activities of Oyo State local governments. “We must make a distinction in the light of the decisions of the court, between the local government administration and Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs). “The LCDAs basically are inchoate creations within the realm of the arrangement of the state government”, he added. In its contribution, the Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN), demanded for the restoration of NURTW and its democratization under the control of elected representatives of registered commercial drivers and operators of motorcycles and tricycles not park thugs. The party faulted the decision of the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government to impose and force on mass of poor but struggling commercial drivers and operators of motorcycles and tricycles in the state, a newly established park management system PMS and appointed park managers for the control and management of parks, and quarries across the state. “This decision is unlawful and contravenes section 7(5) of the Fourth Schedule of the 1999 Constitution as amended. According to this section, the control of the parks, markets, and abattoirs is stipulated to be the constitutional responsibility of the Local Government Council and not of the state government. “It is only expected of the state government through the state house of assembly to enact a law that will enable the local government to effectively perform and carry out the stipulated function. “The appointment of Alhaji Mukaila Lamidi as the chairman of the disciplinary committee of the PMS and some other known park thugs with proven records of criminal and violent activities as park managers clearly show that, the PMS in itself it is a dubious agenda to return through the back door, the control and management of the motor parks, to the section of the park thugs that are loyal to the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government. Under this kind of arrangement one does not need to be a soothsayer to know that the exploitation, harassment including intimidation often suffered by mass of poor commercial drivers and operators of motorcycles and tricycles under the banned park thugs controlled NURTW, will not only continue but deepen in multiple folds especially now that the PMS arrangement has provided an official and legitimate basis for the exploitation and extortion of poor road transport workers. SPN frowns against the continuous proscription of NURTW. It is illegal and undemocratic”. It, therefore demanded the return of the NURTW that is democratically controlled by transport workers (registered commercial drivers and operators of bicycle and tricycle across the state) with guaranteed right to freedom of association and election of leadership devoid of imposition, force, violence and thuggery. “While we recognize that the operation of the banned NURTW under the control and management of the park thugs is condemnable in all ramification, we do not believe that dastardly and criminal acts of a few known park thugs should be a strong reason to continue to deny other willing law abiding commercial drivers and operators of tricycles and motorcycles their fundamental right to association and peace assembly for an adequate defense and protection of both their economic and political rights. “NURTW like other trade union organizations like NUT, NULGE is a registered union by the law and intended to be a union for interested road transport workers for the defense and protection of their interest.  As it is obtainable in other trade unions, members are meant to pay dues and democratically direct the affairs of the union through popular participation such as meetings, congresses etc. “Proceeds realized from such dues are meant to be subjected to democratic and open administration of members through the co-ordination of their elected representatives strictly for the purpose of achieving the goal of the union. “Neither is the proceeds realized from the dues paid by road workers meant for the advancement of the self-serving interest of the few individuals as we used to have it under the proscribed thugs controlled NURTW nor a means of generating revenues for the government as being proposed by Engr seyi Makinde-led government that will be largely stolen by the privileged few”, the party said. SPN rejected the argument by the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government that the range of levies planned to be imposed on poor commercial drivers and operators of motorcycle and tricycles are meant to boost the IGR of the state. “If the transport operators are to be charged levies, such policy will have to be discussed with local government authorities and the transport operators with the aim of arriving at a levy/tax that is progressive and affordable and such revenue generated are to be democratically transparently managed by government and transport operators for the purpose of developing the state and not to enrich the privileged few”. The party also demanded that all big business owners and billionaires in the state, many of who are currently enjoying tax holiday must be progressively taxed in order to raise some fund to finance public utilities. The SPN therefore charged the Engr Seyi Makinde-led government that if truly it is interested in curbing the usual violent activities that is often associated with NUTRW, saying that the solution was neither by the proscription of the union nor the establishment of unlawful management system, but to severe its relationship with park thugs with known criminal and violent records in the state with a view to arrest them and prosecute them in accordance with the law.