The nation’s desire to achieve a high level of food safety and quality of life may be a mirage with the state of her abattoirs and accompanying facilities, TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes Nigerians basically enjoy meat consumption as part of their everyday diet. In certain climes, it is even considered a taboo to eat food without meat. This has no doubt contributed to a thriving business in animal husbandry and meat sales occasioned by vast transportation of livestock across the country. Sadly, only a few Nigerians have visited abattoirs where livestock like cattle, sheep and goats are slaughtered, processed and sold to them in the market. A recent visit to some of the abattoirs in the FCT and its suburb by LEADERSHIP Weekend reveals that with the current state of abattoirs in the nation’s capital, Nigeria’s desire to achieve a high level of food safety and quality of life may be a mirage if the current challenges militating against the establishment, operations and management of abattoirs are not given urgent attention to change its current status. In advanced countries, there are guides that ensure that activities in abattoir satisfy the requirements set out by the Food Hygiene Regulations of such a country. However, it is not out of place to state that Nigeria’s meat cooking culture has saved millions of lives when imagining the gory scene of the poor state of abattoirs and meat processing in the FCT. Although the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria places the responsibility of establishment, maintenance and regulation of slaughter-houses under local government councils, this development has always conflicted with state meat edicts, which place meat hygiene and registration of abattoirs under the veterinary directorate of the state government, while the local government councils, on the other hand, do not have any expertise, nor finance to implement a worthy and efficient meat hygiene programme. Findings by LEADERSHIP Weekend also show that the slaughtering and handling of meat in abattoirs in the FCT and its suburbs are generally poor. This is even as reports have shown that in some cases butchers clean their dressed carcass in nearby streams which are already prone to human and animal faecal contamination due to lack of water supply within the abattoir premises. The water from these abattoirs also poses a serious threat to residents who reside close to the abattoir which is accompanied by an unpleasant, nauseous smell which greets residents and visitors. Sadly, so many people still drink the water on the other end which although may look neat but it is sure contaminated with bacteria, viruses, parasites, and other contaminants.  Inside Dei Dei Abattoir In the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, the Dei-Dei abattoir, tucked away in the expanse of land in the fringes of the suburb is one of the biggest and busiest of such facilities in the FCT. The abattoir at Dei-Dei is also considered to be one if not the largest in the West Africa sub-region boasting an array of both local and foreign breeds of livestock for consumption. It is located within what is established as the Abuja International Livestock Market. The livestock market was established and managed by the Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, while the abattoir was built and owned by a private individual, who pays ground rent to FCTA. The International Livestock Market which receives cattle from all Africa and often times from Europe was commissioned in 2001, 19 years ago by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Slaughtering of animals usually commences at 5 am in the morning and lasts till 11 am daily. Dei-Dei abattoir is fenced with a slaughter hall begging for renovation and a tank supplying water. Just after the slaughter halls and mini gutters surrounding it are dirty. Despite the better amenities, meat and animal parts are dumped at various places on the ground. The concrete floor and tiled walls in the slaughter hall are also stained with blood and faeces. Large chunks of intestinal offal are dumped at separate places in the abattoir including the slaughter halls. There are slaughtering facilities for goats and sheep while the main abattoir hall is for cows. Apart from coming to purchase meat, Abuja residents flock to Dei-Dei Abattoir to buy livestock for their household consumption. Cows here slaughtered at the cost of between three to seven thousand naira depending on its size and the capacity of the owner while goats and sheep are slaughtered for about eight hundred to one thousand naira. Not only meat is processed here in large quantities but also hides and skin, some of which are traded or processed as local delicacy called ‘’pomo’’. Always flooding the abattoir is an army of hides and skin merchants. Butchers who spoke to LEADERSHIP Weekend demand urgent intervention from concerned authorities and the FCTA to ameliorate the worsening condition of the place and improve the quality of meat sold considering the fact the abattoir is one of the biggest in the country. In Dei Dei abattoir there are cows reared to be sold on daily or during festivities. There are some that are delivered and then sold immediately to retail middlemen on a daily basis. A vast section of the abattoir has a market for sheep and goats while a separate market is exclusively reserved for cows. There, unpleasant, nauseous smell greets anyone approaching the abattoir. The unhealthiest area in the abattoir is at the extreme end, where the popular delicacies of ‘pomo’, cow head, cow tail and cow legs are processed. They are most often than not burnt with fire using tyres and subsequently dipped into hot water.  Inside Karu Abattoir Walking by the street that leads to the abattoir, this reporter was asked by some men at the roadside if he wants to buy drugs. This act clearly depicts that residents around the abattoir area are helpless to halt the activities of these drug dealers and users. There is a clear high-level display of crime in the neighbourhood which can be attributed to the high intake of drugs and other hard substances by young men and women in the market. Drug abuse and the sale of marijuana have also become a big threat to neighbouring households. Residents also battle hard to protect their children especially the female ones from being abused by the operators, especially when they act on the influence of drugs or other hard substances or been lured to start taking drugs. The abattoir and environs have taken a unique position in not only offering its primary services to customers but also become a melting pot for different kinds of people, some of whom have criminal tendencies and or records. Inside the premises, branded vehicles converge there for business. They help to transport meat to wholesalers in the market. Those who cannot physically visit the location demand for home services from a specialised team of dispatch riders daily. Unfortunately, behind the tiny fence of the abattoir is a primary health centre that caters to the health needs of residents. In a desperate bid to find fish, young boys are seen scooping out water in the river while at the other end of the river some men are seen taking their bath, washing and even defecating in the same water. Smoke from this abattoir also pollutes the area daily. Neighbouring sewage and refuge are also channelled to this stream behind the abattoir. The stench from raw meat, animal remains, and rising smoke saturates the airspace. Operators of the abattoir are mostly women who help to fetch water, young men, with few married men and women. Such arrangements opened the door for commercial sex workers to make brisk business. About 10 boys were sighted in a protected slab washing goat meat in water that is barely recycled. Large chunks of intestinal offal are dumped at separate places in the abattoir including the slaughter halls while the blood flows freely to the river via a dirty drainage. The state of the abattoir clearly underscores the need to more actively integrate food safety and training of the butchers and staff at the abattoir into the approach to epidemic detection and preparedness.  Inside Kubwa Abattoir Kubwa is a residential district in Bwari, one of the area councils in the Federal Capital Territory of Nigeria. It is one of the major suburbs within the metropolitan. Kubwa abattoir is located around Gado Nasko road. The Kubwa Community has been in existence since 1990 and is considered to be the largest satellite town in West Africa. Kubwa community is known as a modestly clean community by visitors and neighbouring communities, and by residents. One of the major challenges faced by residents in Kubwa is the waste from the abattoir. There are cows reared to and sold on daily basis or during festivities in the abattoir. LEADERSHIP Weekend also observes a daily supply of cows. Although relocated to a newly built butcher house, residents who live close to the abattoir suffer both air and water pollution from waste leading to serious health challenge due to outputs of greenhouse gases such as methane and carbon dioxide, both which are major contributors to climate change. These gases are created both in the process of slaughter and by the degradation of wastewater. The danger posed on the local built environment and health of residents by the abattoirs located in the residential neighbourhood in Kubwa is a matter of serious concern as a result of pollution from the abattoir. A resident close to the abattoir, Abdullahi Marafa, said that beyond providing officials who monitor the activities of the abattoir, he said that the official’s hands are practically tied, as they are usually hesitant to enforce the laws due to constant threat and intimidation from the butchers, who sometimes become aggressive. Marafa said water samples from the waterways of the abattoir should be collected for analysis to investigate the effect on the water quality on the lives of residents. “Also, residents of buildings located approximately 100 meters radius to the abattoir should be randomly selected for interview using relevant indicators to investigate effects on their health. You will be amazed by the result,” he said. The study indicated pollution of wells and air quality of the local built environment in the vicinity of the abattoir as well as reduced quality of health of residents in the area, as “Go around you will observe that there are cases of elevation of excessive coughing, typhoid fever, diarrhoea, and malaria and muscle pains among these residents. “The exclusion of abattoir facility from the residential neighbourhood cannot be overemphasized. Abattoirs should not be built close to a residential area. “Educating butchers in the abattoir on hygiene is not enough they should be relocated,’’ he said.