Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, has disclosed that his administration had met the UNESCO recommendation for education budget. He expressed the readiness of his administration to partner the University Press PLC to develop the education sector in the state. The governor also noted that his administration is willing to explore collaborations with critical stakeholders in the sector to improve the standard of education. Makinde, who stated this when he received the management team of the University Press PLC, at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan, said that his administration was glad to announce to all that he had more than doubled education funding in the state. A statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, quoted Governor Makinde as saying that though his administration met education budget at about four per cent, he has allocated over 22 per cent to education in the 2020 Budget. He stated that the increased budget met the recommendation for education spending by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO), noting that his decision to spend heavily on education was informed by the fact that the sector is one of the four pillars of his administration. He said: “Education is one of the pillars upon which this administration is resting. For the first time, we met the UNESCO recommendation on the percentage of budget to be allocated to education. This year we allocated 22 per cent to education. Earlier, the Managing Director of the University Press PLC, Mr. Samuel Kolawole, appreciated the governor and the government of the state for providing an enabling environment for the company to thrive and also for the role the government played in the final burial rites of Dr. Lekan Area, the University Press’ immediate past chairman. He said: “Let us on behalf of the Board of University Press PLC appreciate the state government for the honour that you bestowed on our immediate past chairman, the late Dr. Lalekan Are. We are honoured to see how the government participated in his burial. 