Mastercard has trained 60 girls between the ages of nine and 12, currently attending the Holy Child College in Lagos to consider careers in science and technology. During the rollout of its first 2020 Girls4Tech programme in Nigeria, the girls were given hands-on training on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programme incorporates Mastercard’s deep expertise in payments technology and innovation. Mastercard employees serve as mentors and role models and guide participants through practical and fun exercises covering topics such as encryption, fraud detection, data analysis, digital convergence, cybersecurity and AI. The programme also emphasizes important skills such as collaboration, creativity and communication to enable young girls to apply their technical knowledge to solve real-world challenges. Director, Marketing and Communications, Sub-Saharan Africa at Mastercard, Ifeoma Dozie, said, “Through our Girls4Tech programme, we’re extending our commitment to Nigeria’s next generation of women leaders and developing a talented pipeline of STEM professionals to support the country’s future economy, by encouraging girls to embrace the subjects that will prepare them for the workforce of tomorrow.” Inspiring young girls to build the skills they need in STEM is important, as it ensures that more women have a have a voice in the development of the products and services of the future. According to an IPSOS survey, 89 per cent of African women are the decision-makers or co-decision-makers for household purchases, yet UNESCO said the share of women working in research and development (R&D) is just 32 per cent in Sub-Saharan Africa. Ranked 128th out of 153 countries in the 2020 Global Gender Gap Report,  women currently make up only 22 per cent of Nigeria’s total number of engineering and technology university graduates. The growing demand for STEM graduates in Nigeria’s workforce means increased opportunities for women in future. Since its launch in April 2014 in the United States, Girls4Tech has reached more than 500,000 girls in 28 countries, including over 100 girls in Nigeria. Mastercard has further committed to reach 1 million girls globally by 2025. Additional programmes will be rolled out to schools in Lagos later this year. 