The world is waking up to the reality of climate change and nations are currently working out measures to palliate the negative effects associated with this. Efforts to reverse the trend and save the world have soared globally with nations making commitments and highlighting realistic and implementable steps to achieve this aim. In 2015, Nigeria and other United Nations (UN) member- states assented to three international frameworks under the Paris Agreement – the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), Sendai Framework for the Disaster Risks Reduction (DRR) Implementation and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). However, experts in the climate change sector have contended that the work that went into developing the NDCs was not comprehensive enough so most of the NDCs by African countries were very broad in terms of policy and goal but when you go into the details of the measures and policies of countries to meet their obligation to reducing the emissions to help in addressing global warming there is a lot of gaps in terms of information, targets and national economy. To address this loophole in Nigeria’s current development plan, the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) billed to run from 2017 to 2020, in the successor programme meant to run from 2021 to 2024, the Department of Climate Change (DCC) under the Ministry of Environment with support from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) organized a training on – Developing a National Toolkit for the integration of the NDCs under the Paris Agreement into ERGP, Agenda 2030, Sendai Framework for the Disaster Risks Reduction (DRR) Implementation and the SDGs  for effective implementation of the UNDP-NDC Support  Programme in Nigeria. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the strategic workshop on the methodology for mainstreaming Nigeria’s NDCs into the existing national development plans in Abuja, the director, DCC, Dr. Peter Tarfa talked about the need to develop result frameworks for the ERGP, which would form the building blocks for development, reduce duplication, promote synergy in implementation, minimize potential policy conflicts, maximize resources as well as enhance technical capacity, information, and expertise sharing. “This should remind us all the very ambitious target we took to Paris in 2015, achieving this target will require collective efforts and harmonized policies and actions between government agencies. In the spirit of taking the lead, it is pertinent to mention that the Federal Ministry of Environment will continue to champions the actions on aligning all national policies and actions into the Nationally Determined Contributions. This alignment will be an advantage to the nation as it will feed into the national sustainable development agenda,” he added. He pointed out that mainstreaming and integration of SDGs, NDCs and Disaster Risk Reduction into the ERGP would provide the nation with a best opportunity for positive and systemic change that could ensure a sustainable and inclusive development in a healthy environment for present and future generations. In an exclusive chat with LEADERSHIP, a climate change specialist at the UNDP regional service centre for Africa, Excellent Hachileka, explained the toolkit as a step by step methodology and process that could be used to integrate SDGs, Paris Agreement and the Sendai Framework into development plans. “This means as you are doing development informed by the national priorities then you are also bringing in the principles of sustainable development, reducing emissions, enhancing adaptive capacity, reducing disaster risks. So, once you have that in your plan then you have a blueprint and it becomes a roadmap for you to move towards sustainable development informed by international norm and guidelines and principles and the chances the country will attain sustainable development is higher,” he stated. He contended that the toolkit would help Nigeria to have a methodology which helps to bring coherence, synergies across the global frameworks while addressing the national priorities, saying coherence is important because it helps to reduce duplication of efforts and maximize/optimize on the efficient use of resources. “This is given that the international agreements are all managed at the national level by different MDAs. So, this is what brings everything together and it makes sure that you avoid this silo type of planning. The idea is to break the silos, this methodology helps you to move away from sector-based budgeting and planning to an integrated approach where you identify the key priorities for development and then channel your resources and efforts around those areas,” he added. Earlier, the chief land resources officer, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Iyabo Mustapha, said the development of a standard toolkit would help everybody work together unlike in the past when the whole MDAs work in different fields in their own little way without any guide. “You know the ERGP, NDC and Serbia, most of these things speak together and it is high time for it to also come together so that we can now be targeting the same thing. The target agriculture sector has in the NDC is a bit different from what we have in the ERGP and also in disaster management but in this gathering now, we will now speak together and the whole objective of food security will definitely be achieved at the end of the day and that’s why we are here, looking at those things, the critical aspects, the activities, how to implement. “Now, there will be coordination which will be easier to track, you have indicators that will track your achievement unlike before. But now you have indicators, you know these are the indicators and you just go to the sector and pin point the indicators that show progress. This will help in the coordination of achieving the main goal for the country,” she stated. Corroborating her point, the deputy director, environment, ERGP, Abiola Labinjo, said the purpose of the programme was to harmonize the ERGP, SDG and NDC into a development plan “so that everyone of them will be talking along the same part. So, whatever you see in the ERGP will address issues in NDC and SDG. So, there will be synergy in the document, that is the most important thing. “And for everyone, whoever is inventing one thing, what is addressed in the SDG is also addressed in the ERGP, and the NDC.” In her remarks, deputy director, research, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Funke Salako, maintained that same basic things were duplicated in different documents hence the need to harmonise efforts in one direction so actions are not going haywire, stressing the need for wholehearted implementation of the revised document. “If we’re going to be very sincere, like we often say, Nigeria’s problem is not in policies but it is about implementation, and that is the truth. Everything Nigeria needs to get to the point where the rest of the world is, is contained in this document. It is about following this document wholeheartedly. “We need the will to do the right thing, follow the document through and not do it haphazardly. It’s in putting all the efforts necessary, the equipment, personnel, training. If we’re able to get those who are implementing, enforcing in line it will work and in no time,” she added. 