The occasion of the International Women’s Day (IWD) celebration, gives women the requisite platform for stock taking on the journey so far in the struggle for women’s rights. JOY YESUFU writes. International Women’s Day is celebrated on March 8 every year. It is a focal point in the movement for women’s rights. After the Socialist Party of America organised a Women’s Day on February 28, 1909 in New York, the 1910 International Socialist Woman’s Conference suggested a Women’s Day be held annually. International Women’s Day is celebrated in many countries around the world. It is a day when women are recognized for their achievements without regard to divisions, whether national, ethnic, linguistic, cultural, economic or political. International Women’s Day first emerged from the activities of labour movements at the turn of the twentieth century in North America and across Europe.  Since those early years, International Women’s Day has assumed a new global dimension for women in developed and developing countries alike. The growing international women’s movement, which has been strengthened by four global United Nations women’s conferences, has helped make the commemoration a rallying point to build support for women’s rights and participation in the political and economic arenas.  The Charter of the United Nations, signed in 1945, was the first international agreement to affirm the principle of equality between women and men. Since then, the UN has helped create a historic legacy of internationally-agreed strategies, standards, programmes and goals to advance the status of women worldwide. Over the years, the UN and its technical agencies have promoted the participation of women as equal partners with men in achieving sustainable development, peace, security, and full respect for human rights. The empowerment of women continues to be a central feature of the UN’s efforts to address social, economic and political challenges across the globe. By this, member nations are to observe this day to focus attention on the role of women in nation building. As a member nation of the United Nations, Nigeria like her counterparts the world over observes this special day to celebrate women. The rationale behind this celebration is to provide women an opportunity of evaluating their contributions in all spheres of human endeavors and to plan strategies for further effective participation. This year’s theme “I am Generation Equality: Realising Women’s Right” aligns with the UN Women’s new multi-generational  campaign “Generation Equality” to mark 25th year anniversary of the Beijing declaration and platform for action adopted in 1995 at the fourth world conference on women in Beijing, China. The 25th anniversary of Beijing declaration and platform for action will also be the focus of the 64th session of the United Nation’s commission on the status of women. Addressing journalists as part of activities to mark this year’s celebration of IWD, the minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Dame Pauline Tallen said 8th of March is set aside annually to take stock of how far women have come in their struggle for equality, peace and development. She also said with the growing demands of western feminist groups and women working with United Nation Agencies, women issues has taken a frontline burner on the global development agenda, adding that women struggled to influence government as it affects women access to equal education, employment opportunities as well as fair justice. Also as part of activities to commemorate the day, the National Centre for Women Development (NCWD) successfully trained 106 women in Advanced Vocational  Skills Programme. At the graduation ceremony, Director General of the Centre, Barr Mary Ekpere Eta said the training programme has challenged stereotypes, fought bias and broadened the perception of these female artisans to improve their situation, adding that the new crop of female professional artisans being launched into the construction industry will break gender barrier. “ The whole idea is to improve female youths as skilled workers who will have competitive edge over their male counterparts by empowering them with the driving force to start small scale economic activities and gain employment” she added. In her address, the United Nation’s Women Country Representative, Ms Comfort Lamptey said the generation equality campaign is a bold statement demanding equal pay, equal sharing of unpaid care and domestic work, an end to sexual harassment and all forms of violence against women and girls. She further said as the world celebrates the IWD this year, people should reflect and acknowledge areas where achievements have been made in the women and girl’s rights, and at the same time recognise where gaps exist and explore opportunities to improve areas that need further actions. Country Vice President of the International Federation of Female Lawyers, (FIDA) Nigeria, Ms Rhoda Tyoden while addressing press on this auspicious occasion said gender equality is not only a fundamental human right but a necessary foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable society which can only be attained when both women and men alike enjoy the same rights and opportunities across all sector of society. She said Nigerian women in particular must be allowed to enjoy greater economic empowerment and participation; more opportunities in leadership positions and decision making, better opportunities for the girl child education; more women in political appointments and women allowed to inherit and own properties. She further said despite great strides made towards attaining gender equality, there is ample evidence to show that much needs to still be done in the aspect of living free from violence and discrimination, education, to own property, vote and to earn a fair wage. Tyoden said “We remember with dismay the recent attacks on the character and invasion of privacy of the Hon Justice Mary Odili because of a judgement delivered by a panel she headed, and more recently the infringement of human rights and discrimination against Hon. Justice Akon Ikpeme by her non appointment as a substantive Chief Judge of Cross River State. These are successful women who have reached the pinnacle of their careers yet their rights are still denied or infringed upon”. She called for full implementation of the newly enacted laws which promotes gender parity and the putting in place of facilities, machinery and structures enabling implementation of the laws, the review of old laws which limits the roles women play in the labor market, the passage of gender friendly legislation in Nigeria. “Gender balance will greatly benefit our society because everyone would be carried along and given equal opportunities” she added. The 1995 Beijing declaration and Platform for Action has continued to be recognised as the most progressive roadmap for the empowerment of women and girls everywhere. This makes the year 2020 commemoration a significant one coinciding with the 25 years of adoption. Nigeria, as a member of the United Nations is expected to join the global community to report on progress made, challenges encountered and the way forward in implementing the 12 critical areas of the Beijing Platform for Action. It also marks the five years milestone in their the drive to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2030 Agenda and 20th anniversary of the adoption of the United Nations Security Council Resolution (UNSCR) 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. It is therefore a pivotal year for the accelerated realization of gender equality and the empowerment of all women and girls, everywhere. This means we must redouble our efforts and recommit to implementing the gender agenda. It is also a time to reflect and mark several other historic moments in the calendar of women’s advancement. Women must be given all round equal rights by their male counterparts for sustainable development. 