The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) has assured business owners of growth and improvement in businesses with the new 2020 Finance Act, adding that the Act will address and bring to end multiple taxation in the country. Speaking at a one day workshop organised by PIC consulting for business owners in Lagos on the topic “How the finance act affects your business” FIRS coordinator in Kwara, Ekiti and Ondo state, Isola Akingbade said the 2020 Finance Act will address all the issues relating to tax multiplicity in Nigeria. Akingbade said, contrary to the notion that there was a tax burden in the country, most of the businesses were under taxed. “There are no tax burden in Nigeria, but all the multiplicity in the tax regime had been taken care of by the 2020 Finance Act which has taken effect in February. “Every Appropriation Act will now come with its different Finance Act to take care of the budget; so any laxity in the previous one will be addressed by the new one. “The 2020 Finance Act has given concession on some of the tax burden many are crying about, there is a need to shift our attention from oil revenue tax to non-oil revenue. For example, for the agricultural sector, it is tax-free for the first five years and extension for another three years which makes a total of eight years,’’ he said. Akingbade said the Constitution provided for most of the taxes that some were complaining about, adding that at times, companies were under taxed. “People often complain about tax burden under the excuse that they will pay hackney permit, land use charge and others. These are product charges. “For example, if companies do not advertise their products, they will not be asked to pay for the advertisement to the government, either the ones on the walls of their company or vehicles. Sometimes, I was approached with 27 taxes in Ekiti state by Hotel Association, and I told them that most of the listed levies are not taxes, but sources of income, however, some of the taxes can be avoided. “In our Constitution, in 2013 Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) approached the executive council that what they are paying is too much and we were asked to review it. looked at their demands alongside of what the Constitution says; then, the list of tax payable was increased from 27 to 52, this is because the Constitution itself needs to be amended. “The Constitution says the state shall have power to legislate on some things and we have laws in each state different from each other so the Constitution needs to be modified. I am sure that with the Finance Act, it will help to reduce some things because it actually touched everything,’’ he said. Also speaking, the convener of the workshop and principal consultant, PIC Consulting, Mrs Yomi Adewale, said that the 2020 Finance Act had provided a lot of incentives for business owners. “The finance workshop enacted and signed into law by our President on Jan.13, 2020 has a lot of provision in it which affect our businesses and our obligation and tax environment in Nigeria,” she said. “The act is an improvement, especially with the fact that the government has put the tax law in the right perspective and also improve ease of doing business for small and medium enterprise in Nigeria.” 