…As 11 Cases Confirmed In Lagos Medical workers in the Infectious Disease Hospital in Lagos have heaved a sigh of relief, as the Italian national who brought the deadly Coronavirus to Nigeria has tested negative to the disease. Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi who revealed this to journalists on Thursday in Lagos said the index case, who had been receiving treatment at the Infectious Disease Hospital, IDH, Yaba, had tested negative to the disease. Abayomi said it was good news for Lagos and Nigeria for the index case to test negative. He said he would not be allowed to go yet until a confirmatory test had been carried out within 48 hours, saying that if he tested negative the second time, he would be discharged. The Italian was tested negative for Coronavirus on Thursday 27, February, 2020. The patient entered Nigeria on the 25th of February from Milan, Italy for a brief business visit to LaFarge. According to Abayomi, “He fell ill on the 26th February and was transferred to Lagos State Biosecurity Facilities for isolation and testing. COVID-19 infection was confirmed by the Virology Laboratory of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, part of the Laboratory Network of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. The patient is clinically stable, with no serious symptoms, and is being managed at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba, Lagos.” The Italian had gone to LaFarge, where he had contacts with staff of the company. Forty people were later quarantined at LaFarge, out of which one tested positive for Coronavirus. The second case who was infected by the Italian tested negative few days after he was quarantined. However, Abayomi said all new cases were responding to treatment at the IDH in Yaba, Lagos. He added that four new persons have tested positive to the deadly Coronavirus, bringing the total number of cases in the state to 11. This means that over 12 people have been infected with the deadly disease in Nigeria. According to him,  the government was currently following up over 1,300 contact cases, adding that 19 people were tested for Coronavirus on Wednesday in Lagos and that four out of them had tested positive to the virus and had been isolated for treatment at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba. He said the first of the four new cases who tested positive to the disease was a woman who had contact with the woman who came from the United Kingdom (UK) some days ago who was tested positive. “The second new case was a female who returned from France on 14th of March on a Turkish airline TK 1830. The third case, is a Nigerian male in his 50s who had not travelled anywhere, but was tested positive to the disease. “The fourth new case was a Nigerian male who arrived the country on 13th of March from Frankfurt to Lagos on Lufthansa airline, flight number LH568,” he added. More tests were still being carried out, said the commissioner, adding that it was clear that the state has combination of imported cases and local transmission, while appealing to people on the two flights to self-isolate themselves and to reach out to government. Harping on social distancing, Abayomi said, “The Executive of Lagos State is meeting on the next stage on social distancing. The best way to slow the rate is to halt movement of the virus from person to person.” 