In this feature, CHIMA AKWAJA looks at the journey towards the establishment of the nation’s Emergency Communication Centres (ECCs) and the 112 toll-free numbers to address security and health emergencies and its usefulness for the citizenry President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday March 19, 2020 inaugurated the Emergency Communications Centre (ECC), the 112 toll-free number, Communications and Digital Economy Complex located at Mbora, Abuja and also unveiled the National Broadband Plan 202-25 and all aimed at making Nigeria a digitally-compliant nation. The launch of these projects are a reflection of the growth and development in the ICT sector which commenced with the National Telecom Policy and the full liberalisation of the telecommunications industry in 2001. Liberalisation brought about licencing of more telecom companies, participation of the private sector and provision of many services which have helped to facilitate efficiency in other sectors of the economy. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), the independent regulatory authority for the telecommunications industry, established by Decree number 75 of 1992 and reestablished by the Nigerian Communications Act 2003, has been responsible for the lofty achievements recorded in the telecom industry in the last 19 years since the world acclaimed auction of Digital Mobile Licence in February 2001 which ushered in mobile network operators (MNOs) who utilised global system for mobile communication (GSM) for commercial service rollout.  NCC’s Journey To 112 and ECC Since the demise of Nigeria Telecommunications Limited (NITEL), the country had dithered on how to replace the defunct 999 police number with an all-inclusive emergency number accepted throughout all the networks that can address all security and health emergencies. A three-digit number is a number that could be dialed from any telecom network to reach the police, military, fire service, ambulance service, and other paramilitary arms in times of emergency. So many administrations at the NCC had grappled with how to activate the 112 toll-free without success until appointment of Professor Umar Danbatta as the executive vice chairman and chief executive officer, NCC in 2015 by President Buhari. To address this puzzle, NCC under Danbatta facilitated the establishment of the 18 Emergency Communications Centres across the country. The establishment of the ECCs is in line with NCC’s mandate under section 107 of NCA 2003, to promote and enhance public safety through the use of a particular number designed as the universal safety and emergency assistance number for telephone services generally. NCC encouraged and facilitate the prompt deployment throughout Nigeria of seamless, ubiquitous and reliable end-to-end infrastructure for emergency communication needs. The board of the NCC, in 2006, with the endorsement of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), commenced the establishment of an ECC in each of the 36 States of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. This followed a committee set up by the then Honourable Minister of Communication in 2005 drawn from relevant key stakeholders (Public and Private Sectors) to develop a framework to facilitate the establishment of a well-coordinated nationwide public protection and disaster relief communication system for the country. Consequently, the NCC allocated the Toll-Free 3-digit number ‘112’ as the Universal Emergency Communications telephone number in Nigeria. Through this dedicated number, members of the public can conveniently access help when in distress by simply dialling 112 from any of the networks at no cost. This toll-free number can help distressed persons access help from the Police, the Federal Road Safety Corps, the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Fire and Ambulance Services, National Emergency Management Agency.  PMB’s Applause For ECC, 112 President Buhari said that the newly-commissioned ECC and Toll Free Number 112, demonstrates his administration’s resolve to keep Nigerians safe by taking advantage of digital technologies to ensure that Nigerians in distress are only a dial away from the relevant emergency response institutions in the country. “NCC’s Emergency Communications Centres (ECC) will go a long way in supporting our efforts to improve the security of lives and property,” President Buhari said. Buhari, however, expressed delight that the projects commissioned would enhance the development of the National Digital Economy and support efforts at diversifying the economy. So far, NCC has facilitated the establishment of 18 ECCs across the states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the country in line with its mandate under section 107 of Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003. Emphasising the importance of the two projects, Prof Danbatta in his welcome remarks said, “This is to promote and enhance public safety through the use of a particular number designed as the universal safety and emergency assistance number for telephone services generally; and encourage and facilitate the prompt deployment throughout Nigeria of seamless, ubiquitous and reliable end-to-end infrastructure for emergency communication needs.” The recognition of the significant role of NCC’s ECC in enhancing security resulted in the awards received by the Commission and Danbatta in 2019. Consequently, the NCC has also been inducted into the Forum of Spokesperson of Security and Response Agencies (FOSSRA).  ECC Projects Across The States The Commission had as at last year fully activated and operationalized ECC in the following 18 States: FCT, Benue, Kwara, Plateau, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Ogun, Ekiti, Ondo, Oyo, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Imo, Enugu, Anambra and Adamawa. While delivering his keynote speech on: ‘Leveraging on Emergency Communication Centre for National Security’, Danbatta represented by Chukwuma Azikiwe, Head of ECC at the maiden Security and Emergency Management Awards (SAEMA) in Abuja in December 2019, said the Commission embarked on the construction and operationalisation of the ECCs across the country to provide a universal, toll-free emergency telephone short code (112) for use by members of the public in Nigeria to seek for help in times of distress/emergency. Other reasons include: “To provide a one-stop shop for receiving distress calls from the public and dispatching same to appropriate Response Agencies (“First Responders”) who will respond to the need of the callers and to provide easy, effective and coordinated access by members of the public to Response Agencies (Police, FRSC, Fire Service, Ambulance Service etc.) in times of emergency/distress.” Each of the ECCs built by the NCC are equipped with eleven workstations, six dispatch workstations for the Response Agencies, and a server system that receives and processes 112-calls from members of the public, and then dispatches the calls to the appropriate Agency that has responsibility to attend to the specific emergency, among other facilities. He recalled that on the 23rd September, 2019, the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy Dr. Ali Isa Ibrahim (Pantami), commissioned the National Emergency Toll-Free number “112” and the Katsina State Emergency Communication Centre, representing the North West Zone. Last December, the executive secretary of the Centre for Crisis Communications (CCC), Air Commodore Yusuf Anas (rtd), commended the NCC for establishing Emergency Centres across the states. Anas assured that CCC was willing, able and ready to partner with NCC to ensure that the ECCs function effectively. “With our pool of experts in crisis communication and media management, we are sure to compliment the effort of NCC in this regard,” he said. In January 2020, during a courtesy visit by members of the Forum of Spokesperson of Security and Response Agencies (FOSSRA), at the NCC’s headquarters, Chairman of FOSSRA, Brigadier General Clement Onyema Nwachukwu commended NCC for the establishment of the distress call centres which helped in tackling security through rapid responses of relevant agencies to victims of emergency situations. 