The Industrial Training Fund (ITF), said the perception that hands-on skills were a preserve of the poor has led skill shortages in trades and vocational areas. Director-general, ITF, Sir Joseph Ari, stated this during the first national skills summit  in Abuja with the theme: “Skills, for Employability and Job Creation and Strategies for Developing Employability Skills in Nigeria and Industry Needs and Education.” The ITF organised the programme to deliberate, chart the pathway and also come up with solutions to unemployment challenges in the country. “Many Nigerians believe that hands – on skills are a preserve of the poor and the disadvantage in our society as they are viewed as dirty, dreaded and dangerous. This perception has led to skill shortages in trades and vocational areas that Nigerians should be well equipped to perform,” he stated. Ari, who also said that the obvious lack of synergy and co-operation between agencies with mandate for skills development was affecting skills development in the country, regretted that despite several policies and initiatives of the government, the scourge of unemployment has persisted leaving in its wake, hydra-headed crimes and its attendant fallouts. Stressing that the federal government cannot be said to be lacking the political will and commitment to confront the problem headlong, the DG attributed most cases of kidnapping, armed robbery, mass killings and other forms of crimes to people , who when caught , admitted to having tertiary education but was forced into the life of crime as a result of unemployment. According to him, If over 20 million Nigerians were not employed and yet technicians are imported, “the answer can only be that Nigerians have not fully embraced skills acquisition as sustainable alternative to white collar jobs,” he added. Earlier in a remark minister of state trade and embraced skills acquisition as sustainable alternative to white colar jobs.” Earlier in her remarks, the minister of state for industry, trade and investment Miriam Katagun,said the skill acquisition workshop was timely especially coming at a time the country desperately needs technicians. She, therefore said there was the need for academic institutions to collaborate with organisations and industries to set up laboratories for the institutions especially considering that many countries are reducing unemployment statistics to single figures.