Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) says it is set to commence the building of a multi-million naira truck transit park (TTP) in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Inspecting the site for the proposed project in Abaji yesterday, the executive secretary/chief executive officer of the council, Hassan Bello, disclosed that the project would be executed through Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. Bello stated that the 110 hectares of land for the project would be develop to accommodate towns, hostels, restaurants, mechanic workshops and many other facilities, so that truck drivers could have a dignified place to rest after about six hours of driving in accordance with international convention. A Truck Transit Park (TTP) is a modern, common user road transport infrastructure just off the highway where trucks, bus drivers and passengers can conveniently park their vehicles get accommodation, fuel, food, drinks, Rest room, showers, vehicle parts, repairs and maintenance and other basic needs of persons and vehicles on long distance travels. The executive secretary of the council, stressed that the project, which is a modern infrastructure would provide employment opportunities for about 3000 to 5000 residents, since there would be provisions for hotels, restaurants, power stations, mechanic workshops and many other facilities. According to him, “It is important because, number one it is a modern infrastructure, number two, the employment content is very high. We could have about 3000 to 5000 job openings here.” Bello revealed that the project would be executed in collaboration with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), so that parking in other places outside the park could be prohibited. He frowned at the way trailers, trucks and other articulated vehicles park on the road shoulders in some villages, adding that it is not a very good sight, because it degrades the environment and poses a lot of danger to residents of the area and other road users. “We need to have modern transport infrastructure to boost the economy,” he said. “We cannot have drivers waiting, in one location without delivery, because timely delivery is a function of an economy.” Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), came up with the idea of the Truck Transit Parks (TTP’s), a critical road infrastructure to manage the menace of heavy goods vehicles (HGVs) which have turned the road carriageways and shoulders into parking lots that has resulted in traffic gridlock affecting business and increasing travel time of commuters traversing the road. Bello informed that the TTP would be built in nine locations across the country at the rate of N4.8 billion each.