Ekiti State Governor Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Sunday visited His imperial Majesty, Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi over the crisis rocking the Ekiti State Traditional Council. A source said the governor was at the Alaafin’s palace to discuss the matter and commiserate with him over the inferno that ravaged Akesan Market. Although the details of their meeting were scanty as of the time of filling this report the Governor spent about an hour at the palace. Adeyemi had earlier written to Governor Kayode Fayemi demanding that the governor tread with caution over the crisis rocking the state traditional council. This however infuriated the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Iba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, that he wrote to the Oyo State governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde to warn Alaafin Of Oyo to stay away from Ekiti kingship affairs. Alawe in the letter added that Ekiti was never and can never be part of Oyo empire, saying that it was a reason he should not meddle into affair of kingship in Ekiti State. Alawe in five pages letter to Governor Seyi Makinde said the letter of Oba Adeyemi contained a lot of misrepresentation of facts and inaccurate accounts of events between the State Government and the Traditional Institution in Ekiti. This was sequel to the query issued to the sixteen crowned obas in Ekiti State by Fayemi over their failure to attend council meetings. The sixteen crowned obas in Ekiti have been at loggerheads with Fayemi over the appointment of Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi, which they referred to as a subordinate Oba to them. The Alaafin of Oyo, His Imperial Majesty, Oba Lamido Adeyemi III had written to Governor Kayode Fayemi, demanding that the governor should tread with caution over the crisis rocking the the state traditional council. The letter was signed by seven prominent traditional rulers in Yoruba land, warned Fayemi to respect the hierarchical nature of the sixteen crowned obas in Ekiti land. This was sequel to the query issued to the sixteen crowned obas in Ekiti State by Fayemi over their failure to attend council meetings. 