Xploits Consulting in collaboration with Access Bank Plc have commended women for their numerous contributions to nation building, just as the bank encouraged women to key into the W-power loan window for financial freedom. This is coming on the heels of the 2020 International Women’s Day (IWD) celebration in Abuja yesterday, organized by Xploits Consulting in collaboration with Access bank Plc with the theme, “Women and Girls in Nigeria- Increasing. The team Lead of Development Banking, Access Bank Plc, Mrs Jameela Tafida-Sambo noted that Access is a woman-focused bank that encourages women in all aspects of life adding that the W-power loan window is a package used to issue loans to women who needed financial support without collateral. She encouraged women to visit any Access bank branch to access loan since it’s a Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) intervention in collaboration with Access bank adding that the interest rate is pegged at 9 percent or highest 15 percent, which is not obtainable in any bank. Tafida-Sambo hinted that the essence of the partnership with Xploits Consulting limited was to create awareness on issues affecting women, adding that the bank would continue to play the role even with similar organisations. On his part, the managing partner of Xploits Consulting limited, Dr Tayo Taiwo urged men to marry strong women to enable them succeed, saying that women are already in the development process but needed to be sustained. He debunked the notion that women are weaker sex, noting that it’s a scam as women are strong. In her address, the vice President of International Business Development Group, Mc Crory Engineering, Texas-USA, Engr Janet Adeyemi has harped on the need for financial institutions to increase access to interest-free loans and credit for women in order to enhance their means of production. Speaking on ‘Fostering Economic Growth Through Equitable Participation”, Adeyemi described lack of land, discrimination and exploitation in the labour market, inheritance rights and occupational segregation especially in highly skilled jobs as some of the challenges faced by women. Adeyemi who is also the president, Women in Mining, Nigeria pointed out that gender-based discrimination in labour markets resulted in higher rates of unemployment, lamenting that most policies on development overlook young girls and women.  