The Northwest Governors Forum, Niger and Kwara states have resolved to shut down schools across in their respective states  for 30 days as part of measures against the spread of Coronavirus. The Northwest, Kwara and Niger States Governors resolved to tackle security challenges in their areas and also agree to a joint responses to the Coronavirus pandemic. In a communique signed by Kastina State governor, and Chairman North West Governors Forum, Aminu Bello Masari, and Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello who is Chairman North Central Governors Forum, after their meeting held in Kaduna said the: “School Closures: Measures shall be taken by each of the states, in consultation with the national examination bodies, to close schools for a period of 30 days, starting from Monday, 23rd March 2020. Sensitisation campaigns to discourage large gatherings until further notice. Public health awareness campaigns: States will continue to wage aggressive campaigns to encourage citizens to uphold personal hygiene, including hand washing and environmental sanitation” Present at the meeting were Governors Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna) Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), Bello Matawalle (Zamfara) and Abubakar Sani Bello (Niger). Deputy Governor Nasiru Gawuna represented Kano State. The Governor of Kwara State joined the meeting by telephone. The meeting, chaired by the chairman of the Northwest Governors’ Forum, Aminu Bello Masari, was also attended by the SSGs of the states, their Special Advisers and commissioners responsible for security matters. The governors received briefings from heads of security agencies, at the meeting which had in attendance Major-General A. Agundu (Commander, Operation Safe Haven), Major-Gen. F.I. Yahaya, GOC 1 Division, AVM, M.I. Mukhtar (AOC Air Training Command), Rear Admiral T. Pani (Commandant, Nigerian Navy School of Armaments) and other senior military officers. Commissioners of Police and State Directors of the DSS from the concerned states also attended the meeting. After briefings and discussions, the governors of the nine states agreed on extraordinary measures to tackle the menace of banditry. The communique further disclosed that the state governors resolved to jointly fund security operations aimed at conclusively addressing the challenge from the criminal elements. 