Adamawa government is to enforce stiffer penalty on defaulters of COVID-19 preventive measure in the state. Prof Abdullahi Isa, Commissioner of Health made the disclosure Saturday after a meeting with members of State Technical Committee for Containment of deadly pandemic. Isa expressed dismay over non compliance by some religious and social groups on minimising number of people during gatherings which he said government will not condone such attitude as the safety measures are meant to protect the lives of the people. He disclosed that the State Technical Committee has now been expanded to include religious leaders so that they will help in disseminating information to their followers on safety measures against COVID-19 pandemic. Professor Isa added that the committee will also liaze with technical partners like World Health Organization WHO and United Nation Children Educations’ Fund UNICEF in the prevention against the scourge in Adamawa. He revealed that the Nigeria Governor’s Forum has requested names of health personnel in the state who will be trained in Lagos adding that state government may reengaged retired health workers in the fight against COVID-19 in case of any eventuality and the situation warrants. He said the Technical Committee had met with the local government chairmen and urged them to repair all ambulances in their respective local governments and station them at various Primary Healthcare Centres in case of any outbreak of the disease in Adamawa. He therefore called on the people especially the wealthy in the state to help with some of the equipment as the committee has a dedicated bank account number for donations from the public to help fight spread of COVID-19 into the state. Dr Umar Garba Pella, Commissioner of Information and Strategy,  who is also a member of the Technical Committee urged people to appreciate the soft measures put in place by government for containment of the virus. Pella advised religious leaders to help government in the measures taking which are for the best interest of the state and called on the general public to observe personal hygiene and stay indoors. 