According to a statement released by DSP. Odah Loveth Obianuju  (PPRO), the attention of the Ebonyi State Police Command has been drawn to pictures in circulation on various social media platform misleading the reading public that it is herdsmen attack in Ebonyi State. To set the record straight the Ebonyi State Police Command wishes to State that pictures showing the killing of persons is as a result of renewed communal crisis between Agila Community in Ado L.G.A of Benue State and Umuogudu Akpo Ngbo Community in Ohaukwu L.G.A of Ebonyi State, an incident which is in itself most regrettable. However, the command wishes to state categorically that this crisis is a re-enactment of the age long border crisis between the two warring communities which has led to loss of lives and destruction of property worth millions of naira. Today 10th March, 2020, the Divisional Police Officer in-charge of Ohaukwu Division received information through phone call from the vigilante chairman of Umuogudu Akpo Ngbo in Ohaukwu L.G.A of the state, stating that the people of Agila in Ado L.G.A of Benue state numbering about thirty Five (35) persons attacked the people of Ndiegu Orie in Umuogudu Akpo Ngbo and the Police Command swiftly mobilized to the area and discovered that one Fidelis Ali Omem ‘m’ 70yrs old, one Helen Ali ‘f’ 55yrs old and seven (7) others have been murdered while one Titus Ugadu ‘m’ 50ysr old was seriously wounded and admitted in the hospital, some houses and yam bans were set ablaze by the rampaging assailants. The Commissioner of Police Ebonyi State, CP. Awosola Awotinde, undertook a tour to the crisis areas where he Admonished the people to remain calm and not to carry out any act that will further jeopardize the peace process already initiated by the Government, both at the State and Federal level, especially the anticipated arrival of the National Boundary Adjustment Commission slated to visit Makurdi on 26 March, 2020 for demarcation, as it is an age long dispute that has defiled previous peace initiatives. But the Government of the day is working assiduously towards finding a permanent solution to it. Members of the public should not allow themselves to be manipulated and misled by agents of darkness using social media. Meanwhile the general area has been reinforced with Police Mobile Force personnel to avert further breakdown of law and order. The Command equally wants to use this opportunity to appeal to the good people of Ebonyi State that they should remain calm and law abiding as Police is doing everything possible to ensure safety of lives and property in the troubled communities. Distress call phone numbers have been distributed to inhabitants of the areas with more Policemen deployed to enhance security in the area. The State Police Command is very willing more than ever before, to collaborate with public spirited individuals in maintaining law and order and emplacement of total peace in the entire State. FOR: COMMISSIONER OF POLICE,
EBONYI STATE COMMAND,
ABAKALIKI.