One of the major hurdles before APC, PDP in Edo State is how their governorship candidates will emerge, PATRICK OCHOGA write It is no longer news that there are political hurdles before the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State as both parties prepare for primary elections ahead of the September, 19, 2020 governorship elections. The ruling APC is torn apart by the internal squabble between the embattled national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole who was suspended through a court judgement and the incumbent Governor, Godwin Obaseki. It was gathered that the APC intends to adopt the direct primary in picking its governorship candidate while the PDP will conduct indirect (delegate) primaries. For the APC, despite the setting up of the Chief Bisi Akande’s reconciliation committee, the crisis in the Edo APC continues to fester with no respite in sight. While governorship aspirants loyal to Oshiomhole‘s factions of the party are united in their quest to unseat the incumbent governor, it is not clear if the unity or pact they all entered into will last. Among the frontline aspirants for the APC tickets are, former minister of Works, Eng. Chris Ogiemwonyi, former deputy governor, Pius Odubu, Pastor Osagie-Ize Iyamu and Retired Major General Charles Airhiahvere. It was gathered that with the recent Supreme Court sacking of APC Bayelsa State governor-elect and his deputy on account of academic qualification, the Edo APC seems to be threading carefully not to field candidate with tainted past in a bid to avoid a repeat of the Bayelsa incident. Oshiomhole, who is said to be rooting for the candidacy of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu may be left with no option than to back-track following the allegation of alleged N700m money laundry hanging on his neck. Ize-Iyamu has since rubbished the allegations as political witch-hunt. The party it was gathered fear that it might be too risky to field any candidate whose eventual victory can easily be upturned on account of any misdemeanour. Be that as it may, some aspirants, stakeholders and political analyst have begun to sensitize and present their selling points to faithfuls on the need for the party to avoid the Bayelsa pitfalls and do the right thing. However, in what appeared to be a seeming crack in the ranks of governorship aspirants loyal to Oshiomhole surfaced in a viral video last week where a member of the Edo People Movement and former attorney  general and commissioner for Justice, Hon Henry Idahiagbon in an apparent reference to Chris Ogiemwonyi said ‘Edo people should not support a technocrat to emerge as it governorship candidate’ while drumming support for former deputy governor, Pius Odubu. The Chris Ogiemwonyi Campaign Organization team had viewed the comment of Idahiagbon as a direct attack on their principal describing such comment as uncalled for and capable of causing disunity among the aspirants. A close ally to Ogiemwonyi and a political strategist, Gold Idehen,  while soliciting support of APC youth leaders who had visited Ogiemwonyi explained that a technocrat as someone who can deliver on any given task explained that:  “It is a shame that the same Idahiagbon who had benefitted immensely from Ogiemwonyi can turn around today to attack him” Ogiemwonyi had told the APC youth that the meeting was important in order for them to understand why it is necessary to separate the wheat from the chaff among the aspirants “We are four main aspirants in the race. I beg of you that it is no more time to vote on sentiments. Take the four profiles of the aspirants and on your own and check their work experience. How can you compare a Professor and a boy just leaving High school? Am told that when politics a leveller. I have served 35 solid years in the mainstay of our economy. Iam pushed to speak when I hear one man said ‘yama-yama technocrat. This was the same man I had assisted at NGC in warri” “Now because of politics he is destroying all that. A technocrat is someone who can manage resources technically, ensuring that there is business continuity, a technocrat must be with a human face”. The governorship aspirant harped on antecedence, public records and loyalty to the party’s ideals, as key factors to be considered in determining who emerge the party’s flag bearer for the September 16, 2020, Governorship poll. He said: “I want to be governor to support Edo people, there is poverty in the land. When Oshiomhole left,  Edo state was rated as number 3 in terms of development but where we are today is sad. My name is a brand that will bring foreign investors. “You need a governor who can broker friendship and give employment to Edo people. I am in the race to rescue the state. “After 35 years in public service, I don’t have any EFCC  and ICPC case, I don’t have any baggage. Today, am called Mr Integrity, youth leaders like you gave  me the name at campaign ground. He told the youths that what Edo state need is governor that will govern the state with human face and compassion even, as he promised that if given the party’s ticket,  30 percent  of appointments under his administration will be made up of youths. He regretted that those who had benefitted from his benevolence while he was in public service could refer to him as a ‘technocrat’ in negative terms. Obaseki’s and Oshiomhole’s divide in the party which parades parallel executives laying claim to the soul of the APC, it is likely that the party maybe heading for the parallel primaries if the lingering fight is not settled. Despite the obvious battle for second term Obaseki had expressed confidence that he would secure the ticket of his party on account of his popularity and score cars. The governors had in a statement through his special adviser media and communication, Cusoe Osagie said, “The last time an incumbent ran for governorship in our party in the state, it was a consensus. It will happen again; we will all agree on consensus. “Whether direct or indirect primary, you, the people, will vote. Our plan is on the election, not the primaries,” Mr Obaseki was quoted as saying.  PDP’s strategy As the crisis in the state APC rages unabated political pundits are of the view that the PDP in Edo State could  chart its path to the Osadebey Avenue, the seat of power in Edo State. But other pundits aver that the party needs to get right its choice of candidate to field against any candidate of the APC if it is desirous of clinching the number seat in the state. The party’s congresses had hit the rocks last month when some aggrieved members approached an Edo State High court restraining the party from announcing results of the congresses. The petitioners had hinged their action on allegation of massive manipulation and irregularities on the part of the out-going leadership of the party led by Dan Orbih. In the suit by Eruanga Gallant, Victor Idekheoa and Hide Obalowoshe, the claimants had asked the court to restrain the PDP and the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) from using the results of the wards congress for the local government congress, scheduled to hold the subsequent weekend. It was gathered that the National working committee, (NWC) of the party had perfected plans to ensure that proper congresses are conducted where a popular candidate would emerge. LEADERSHIP Weekend however gathered that with loss of confidence in the state working committee of the party to deliver credible congresses, the party is said to be waiting for expiration of the Orbih-led executive to conduct fresh congresses. Some of the aspirants eyeing the party’s ticket include, Kenneth Imansuagbon, Hon Ogbeide Ihama, Hon Ifaluyi Isobor and Hon Geideon Ikhine. Notable among the aspirants is Mr. Kenneth Imasuangbon popularly known as the “Rice Man.” Imasuangbon, a lawyer, an educationist, philanthropist has been yearning to govern Edo State since 2007. He is reputed to have spent billions of naira to distribute rice to the poor during festive periods. Besides, sharing of rice, Imasuangbon has empowered thousands of youths in ICT through his annual quiz competition where iPads and cash support are given free to students. He joined active politics in 2004 and attempted to contest the governorship in 2007 under the defunct Action Congress. Imasuangbon could have joined the ruling PDP then but he opted for a party of the masses. The AC had no structure but Imasuangbon gave it life by paying for its secretariat and providing furniture to be used by party members. He was however pressured to step down for Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. Despite seeing the party to victory, Imasuangbon, who was not happy with the manner the party was run, left for the opposition PDP when the party was at its lowest ebb. He helped reconciled warring factions and put the party in strong shape. In 2012, Imasuangbon contested at the PDP primaries but lost to General Charles Airhiavbere at the behest of late Chief Tony Anenih. Not satisfied with the manner the primaries was manipulated, Imasuangbon returned to the APC. In 2016, he was among the aspirants that contested against incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki and also lost out at the primaries. He has again indicated interest to contest for the governorship ticket under the PDP with the hope that as PDP candidate can defeat the candidate of a troubled APC. He is the only PDP aspirant that has not held any political appointment or elective positions and has spent his money to finance the Edo PDP through troubled times. However there is an argument that it would be difficult for a candidate from Edo Central to win governorship election in the state. A party leader, Joe Orobosa, joined the argument that what the PDP need is to field a popular candidate irrespective zoning arrangement. “If you ask me, Imasuangbon has the capacity to win elections in the state. He has established his name in the heart of the ordinary people and that we cannot wish it away because he is from Edo central, what really matter is a candidate that is love by the Edo people.” That said, it remains to see what position other party leaders in the state will take.