Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, yesterday confirmed testing positive for coronavirus. The governor who revealed this status via his personal twitter handle, @seyiamakinde, said that he remains asymptomatic and would remain in isolation. The test result which was delivered to the governor at about 5.30pm indicated that he had tested positive to coronavirus. However, chief press secretary to the governor, Taiwo Adisa, in a statement, said Makinde had appointed Prof Temitope Alonge, a former chief medical director (CMD) of the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, as the head of COVID-19 Task Force, while he recovers. It would be recalled that Makinde was one of the governors who attended the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting in Abuja, penultimate week, where he met with a number of colleagues. The Nigerian Governor’s Forum (NGF) had after the meeting advised its members who attended the Abuja meeting to go on self-isolation or undergo COVID-19 tests. The news of Makinde’s positive test came on the heels of the release of the state’s index case from the COVID-19 isolation centre. The index case was released after two consecutive negative tests, the statement read. The statement also quoted the state’s incident manager, Dr. Taiwo Ladipo as saying that the confirmed case spent six days in the isolation centre and had two negative tests. Meanwhile, Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari and his deputy, Mannir Yakubu, tested negative to Covid-19. The deputy governor made the disclosure at a press briefing in the government House yesterday, shortly after the results of the tests were released. He further announced the setting up a committee known as “Katsina State Covid-19 Response and Emergency Committee” which he chairs. Other members of the committee are Alhaji Dahiru Bara’u Mangal as deputy chairman, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Alhaji Tasi’u Maigari Musa Zango, the attorney-general and commissioner of Justice Alhaji Ahmed Usman El-Marzuq, commissioner of Finance, Alhaji Kasimu Abdul Mutallab, commissioner of Health, Engineer Nuhu Yakubu Danja and the chief of staff to the governor, Alhaji Muntari Lawal. He explained that the main purpose of the committee is to assist the state’s Ministry of Health to respond quickly to the pendemic whenever a discovering is made. He added that the committee had already swung into action and had been receiving donations from public spirited individuals both within and outside the state. The deputy governor disclosed that Alhaji Dahiru Bara’u Mangal donated N100million Naira; United Bank of Africa (UBA), donated N28.5 million. He said an anynomous donor presented N10 million. While Alhaji Mannir Abukur donated N10 million, Alhaji Salisu gave N5 million, Yakubu said.