Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko Mohammed, yesterday administered the oath of office on Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem as the acting president of the Court Appeal. Setting agenda for the new appellate court president, the CJN urged her to carry her colleagues along through consultations and regular visits to the various divisions of the court. Justice Dongban-Mensem took over from Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa who retired from the court after the mandatory retirement age of 70years. Speaking at the swearing-in ceremony, the CJN described Justice Dongban-Mensem as “a seasoned judicial officer in the system” Justice Mohammed said, “As a seasoned judicial officer in the system right from day one after graduation, I don’t know what to tell you. You know your work very well and you have been doing your job satisfactory well. “It is this hard work and general character and attitude that enticed both the Court of Appeal and the National Judicial Council to uplift you to be the acting president of the Court of Appeal. “I am pretty sure as I know you very well, except you have changed which I have not notice. I will therefore urge you to continue with your charisma, attitude and ability to carry out the task and assignment given to you. The whole world has testified that you can do it. The testimony comes from the generality of the public and colleagues and those of us you met. Please continue to bear that testimony. “I urge you to carry your colleagues along and do a lot of consultations with them, have a lot of confidence and, if need be, pay them visit to their various divisions”.  Gov Lalong, Plateau Speaker Celebrate Dongban-Mensem’s Appointment Meanwhile, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State has said the appointment of Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem as the acting President of the Court of Appeal was well deserved because of her impeccable record of performance in the Judiciary over many years. Lalong in a statement issued in Jos by the director of press, Simon Makut Macham, said he has no doubt that Justice Dongban-Mensem will discharge her new responsibility with the highest decorum, professionalism, diligence and patriotism so as to add value to the second highest court in the land. He said, “We in Plateau State are extremely proud of this feat by one of our daughters who has given her best in the service of Nigeria and in the dispensing justice to all manner of people without fear or favour. We have no doubt that she will excel in this huge responsibility and demonstrate the true Plateau spirit of honesty, fairness and fear of God. We shall uphold her in prayers”. The Governor thanked President Muhammadu Buhari and Chief Justice of Nigeria for their recommendation and approval in line with constitutional provisions and judicial tradition. On his part, the Speaker of Plateau House of Assembly, Abok Ayuba, also described the appointment of Justice Dongban-Mensem as acting president of the Court of as well deserved. Ayuba, in a congratulatory message by his press secretary, Bulus Atang, said Dongban-Mensem’s is an asset in the judicial arm of government as. He urged her to exhibit high sense of patriotism in the discharge of her duty as the acting president of the Court of Appeal without fear or favour.