…Its A Malicious Misrepresentation – Governor Palpable fears has gripped members of Ekiti State Traditional Council, following queries issued by Governor Kayode Fayemi to some prominent traditional rulers in the state. LEADERSHIP gathered that the queries are causing apprehension because it came few days after the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II was deposed by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje Our correspondent learnt that the top monarch had been having running battle with governor Fayemi since last year when he appointed the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Alabi as the new chairman of the council. The aggrieved monarchs contended that the Ekiti State Chieftaincy Law stipulated that the Chairman of the Council should be appointed among the pelupelu/Alademerindinlogun Obas, the category they said Alawe didn’t belong before they resorted to litigation. But governor Fayemi was said to have issued the queries to the monarchs over their continued absence from state’s functions and the monthly council meeting since Alawe became the Chairman of the Council few months ago. The query dated March 11, 2020 signed by the Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Chieftaincy  Affairs, Mr. A.O. Adeoye and addressed to the Obas individually , a copy of which was  sighted by journalists in Ado Ekiti on Thursday , said the Obas must respond to the queries within 72 hours. The query reads: “It had come to the attention of Mr. Governor that Your Royal Majesty has not been attending the monthly statutory meeting of the State Council of Traditional Rulers and State official functions since August 2019. “Your conspicuous absence at the Council meetings and State official functions, without any excuse or justification is considered inimical to the proper administration of the chieftaincy institution you represent. “Therefore Mr Governor has directed that Your Royal Majesty should forward your representation for this inaction through this office within 72 hours on the receipt of this letter”, the letter concluded. It was gathered that state functions and the council meetings are being boycotted by the monarchs and had since gone ahead to institute legal action the state government on the matter. The monarchs, in the suit with registration number HAD/76/2019, filed before an Ado Ekiti High Court, are seeking nullification of the appointment, saying the governor’s action of picking someone outside the 16 Obas as chairman was “a violation of the Ekiti State Chieftaincy Law.” In an originating summon filed by Dr. B.A.M. Ajibade (SAN) on August 7, 2019 and deposed to by Ajero of Ijero, Oba Joseph Adewole, on behalf of other 15 obas, the monarchs are seeking an interlocutory injunction restraining Fayemi from swearing-in Alawe as the chairman of the council. Responding through a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode Governor Fayemi described the alleged plan by his government to dethrone some traditional rulers in the state as grossly misrepresent the development. He said the Ekiti State Bureau of Chieftaincy Affairs which is responsible for the coordination, management and welfare of the Traditional Council and its affairs had briefed the Governor, on the prolonged absence of some members of the State’s Traditional Council meetings as well as traditional council meetings at the local government level. The governor according to him directed that the Bureau should write the affected traditional rulers to find out reasons for their absence. The statement reads,” The Honourable Attorney General wrote to the Bureau on Mr Governor’s directives. Consequently, the Bureau (through a senior official) wrote to the affected traditional rulers seeking for reasons for their prolonged absence at council meetings. The formal nature of the letter is what is being misconstrued to be a query. “Contrary to insinuations, this is merely an administrative matter which is neither contentious nor confrontational. It is definitely not a ploy or plan to remove any Oba from office. As an administrative head, Mr Governor should be aware of reasons why such duties are not being carried out. “It is on record that some of the Obas had earlier written Mr Governor to give legitimate reasons for their absence which have been accepted. “Any rumour claiming that Governor Fayemi is planning to dethrone any Oba in Ekiti State is a deliberate and malicious misrepresentation of the true situation. It is obviously an attempt from opposition to create chaos and confusion between the Ekiti State Government and the good and law abiding people of Ekiti State.’’ 