In a bid to give basic education a facelift by mopping up out-of-school children in the state, Gombe State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), has spent N2.9bn in renovating and constructing 400 schools across the 11 council areas, writes JAIYEOLA ANDREWS It was the revered former South African President, late Nelson Mandela, who stated that “education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” The Gombe State Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, having keyed into the above statement of the elder statesman, took an inventory of the educational background of the state before an eventual declaration of a state of emergency on the state’s education sector. To this end, and in an apparent evidence of the governor Recently, beneficiaries of the out-of-school initiative were not only brought back into school, over 200, 000 of them benefitted from the free distribution of uniforms and bags containing writing materials to pupils in public schools and girl-child learning centres in the state. The governor who was at the flag-off ceremony of school uniforms distribution in Jalingo Primary School, Funakaye local government area, said the distribution of the materials demonstrated his administration’s commitment to improving the quality of education in the state. “Among other steps taken was conversion and renovation of the dilapidated and abandoned almajiri school in Kwami into a teacher training centre to serve as a capacity building citadel for teachers in the state” Yahaya added. He lauded the concerted efforts by BESDA and SUBEB, as well as development partners such as USAID and UNICEF for supporting the state towards  revamping  the standard of education in the state through training and retraining of teachers. “Other areas of focus in improving education in the state is the renovation of schools across the state to ensure that a conducive atmosphere of learning is put in place for pupils and teachers,” the governor stressed. He added that from September 2019-March 2020, Gombe State government through BESDA project was able to enrol over 200,000 out of school children, ranging from almajiri/tsangaya school category to girl-child education. Chairman of State Universal Basic Education Board, Babaji Babadidi, attributed the menace of out-of-school children to poverty, socio- economic, cultural benefits and security challenges,  applauding  Yahaya for taking necessary measures to nip the situation in the bud.  The Decider Knowing the need for his team to experience and to sustain the current changes in the system, Babadidi admonished staff members on enrolling their wards in public schools. He stated, “I want to direct staff of SUBEB, head teachers, and teachers across the state to enrol their wards in public schools following the recorded improvement in teaching and learning in the state. “If a teacher’s wards attend public schools it will make room for further seriousness and more dedication to work, then the much-desired impact the state government is after will be evident. “Henceforth Gombe SUBEB will not accept any act geared towards sabotaging the effort of the Inuwa Yahaya-led administration in restoring the past glory of the education sector especially, (that of) the basic education in the state. Late coming and absenteeism by teachers and students are prohibited.” Babadidi added in his appeal, that the board frowns at exorbitant school fees by private schools in Gombe State, saying “I want to appeal to private school owners to reduce the cost of fees to be friendly to parents across the divide.”  Some Beneficiaries Pupils Eight year old Muhammad Ahmad, from Funakaye is visually impaired received a bursary from the governor to enable him  attain to any level he deemed fit. He  said, “Now my life has meaning. Before now I thought my life would be incomplete with this scholarship I can become successful despite my incapacity.” Hanatu Danjuma, a tsangaya pupil in Bajoga said prior to her commencing the programme she was just a regular hawker. “I used to just hawk bambara without going to school. Now, I attend school and also trade for my parents,” she said. Iliya Mohammed, Kuri Primary school observed how he used to just go to farm without going to school. “Before I thought school would prevent you from farming, now I have realized because I still find time to go to farm. I’m really happy at this opportunity.” he said.  Some Beneficiary Schools Some beneficiary schools located in core rural areas with difficult terrains are, Dano Primary School and Shani Tera (Kwami LGA), Dudei Primary School (Shongom LGA), Walam Dutse, Dungarije and Bwaza Primary Schools (Balanga LGA), Lilik Primary School (Shongom LGA) Bagadozan Filan Primary School (Dukku LGA),  Horegari Primary School (Yamaltu/Debba LGA), among others. As at 18 August, 2019 Yahaya expressed his administration’s readiness to rejig basic education in the state to boost the performance of students across all levels. While reviewing the poor performance of Gombe students, who participated in the 2019 May/June WASSCE. He said, “The rating reflects the systemic and steady decay in the education sector triggered especially by the immediate past administration’s shameless relegation of education, one of the pillars of development of any society. “This administration has come up with short, medium and long term strategies that will fast track the process of repositioning the education sector and raising the position of the state among its peers in terms of passing rate. “We have strengthened the state’s partnership with relevant government agencies, development partners and donor agencies in our quest to improve the quality of education and enforce performance standard.” Yahaya at the reception for Professor Gidado Tahir, national coordinator of Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), on vowed to ensure integration of basic education in order to address the anomalies associated with it and improve the rating of Gombe State in the index of performance in NECO and WAEC so as to catch up with other states. He reiterated his commitment towards addressing the problem of out-of-school children, which he described as alarming, expressing confidence that with the composition of scholars of reckoning at the helm of affairs in the State Universal Basic Education Board, (SUBEB) the project would be successfully implemented in the state.  Mission To Rewrite The Wrongs With the appointment of the State Universal Basic Education Board chairman, Babadidi Babaji, the stage was now set to actualize the aims BESDA in the state. Tahir had explained that Gombe State was among 17 states of the country with highest number of out-of-school children to kick start the programme. He also highlighted on key areas of the project to include number of children to be enrolled, teaching capacity as well as supervisory and management roles, stating  that  SUBEB would be the implementing  organ while the state ministry of education is to supervise the programme. He therefore urged the governor to ensure adequate monitoring of the programme, in order to achieve the desired results, especially being the state with the 3rd highest number of out- of- school-children. SUBEB Chairman, Mr. Babaji Babadidi, appreciated Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya for his foresight in including teacher-training as part of his areas of focus, describing the World Bank assisted programme as apt and timely. Babaji also thanked the governor for the confidence reposed in them so serve and assured to work assiduously towards the realisation of his campaign promises.  Role Of Traditional, Religious Leaders In a clime where religious and traditional  leaders are revered, then there is need to increase the tempo with these institutions for more results to be achieved. The governor at the launch of free uniforms and bags in Funakaye, underscored the imperative of the traditional to accord the consistent efforts of SUBEB the needed support. He urged traditional leaders and parents to support government in the sensitization and mobilization. However, presently, 214,000 children had been enrolled in the state. If the tempo is sustained, there will certainly be light at the end of the tunnel in taking children off the streets, return them to school for a better future.