A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has distanced the minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, from the travails of the embattled national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. He described Oshiomhole’s travails as self-inflicted and called on President Muhammadu Buhari to save the party from the plot by the embattled chairman to pull it down. Eze, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt yesterday, also described Oshiomhole’s claim that Amaechi was behind his travails as “bogus and unsubstantiated.” He expressed dismay over the embattled APC chairman’s claims, stressing that the Transportation Minister is not a member of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party and therefore should be spared in Oshiomhole’s misguided outburst. The APC chieftain said: “It is unfortunate and sad that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the outgoing national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, instead of addressing the woes he has brought to APC, and the issues that prompted some members to seek court intervention to oust him from office, is trying to hold at anything to keep afloat. “He is insinuating that Rt. Hon. Dr. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, erstwhile Governor of Rivers State, APC Leader South-South, and Minster of Transportation, is behind his unfortunate and current plight. “Has Amaechi become an Exco or a member of Oshiomhole’s political ward in Edo State that suspended him from the party for his anti-party activities or is Amaechi listed amongst those that took him to court?” Eze, who is former national publicity secretary of the defunct new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP), advised the embattled APC chairman to leave Amaechi out of his self-inflicted political woes and misfortune which he brought to himself based on his misguided style of leadership. He said: “Rt. Hon. Amaechi is too busy and constantly preoccupied with official functions and activities for public good and should not be distracted by trivial matters such as this. Nigerians should caution Oshiomhole to allow the Minister concentrate on his mission of transforming and improving the fortunes of Nigerians in the areas related to his mandate in line with the vision of the Presidency of Muhammadu Buhari. “Judging from the crisis and attendant misfortunes his chairmanship has brought the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomole, ought to know that his stay as the national chairman of the party is over, no matter those promoting and encouraging him in the destruction of a party which he met as formidable, virile, cohesive and vibrant force.”