As the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) meet on Tuesday, Governors under the umbrella of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) have set an agenda for the party to end the current crisis bedeviling the APC. The governors expressed their backing for the emergency National Executive Council (NEC) meeting scheduled for Tuesday, 17th of March, but demanded that the forthcoming NEC meeting should activate Article 21 of the party’s constitution with appointment of respective fact-finding committees for cases of suspension placed on some person by the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC. In a statemen made available to newsmen Saturday in Abuja, Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF) Salihu Moh. Lukman, said the NWC is not an executive committee and therefore does not qualify to exercise the powers of taking most of the decisions it has taken with respect to disciplinary conduct of leaders. The APC governors forum DG said the NEC would need to recall all the so-called suspensions and decisively treat in line with provisions of relevant sections of the APC constitution, adding that it is important that the NEC take steps to ensure that the party it able to shift politics to a rule-based conduct and not impulsive and opinionated driven by the ego of the NWC leaders. Lukman recommended that all disciplinary decisions initiated and executed by the NWC as was the case with Sen. Shuaibu and the three governors should be declared a nullity. The statement reads: “With the emergency National Executive Council (NEC) of APC scheduled to hold Tuesday, March 17, 2019, apart from the issue of appointing Acting National Chairman, the resolution of cases of so-called suspension of members of the National Working Committee (NWC) would have to be addressed. This is very important given that part of what the emergency NEC meeting would be required to achieve is to lay solid foundation for the resolution of all the major leadership problems facing the party. That will mean that the NEC will have to review all cases affecting all leaders of the party, especially members of the NWC and as much as possible ensure they are settled. This is also necessary because after the meeting, it will be the NWC that will be saddled with the responsibility of providing leadership to resolve all other leadership problems. Therefore, charity must begin at home, or as they say in law, he who comes to equity must come with clean hands. “Specifically, the question then would be what are these cases of so-called suspension of members of the NWC? There are three – Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman, Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, Deputy National Chairman (North) and Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir, National Vice Chairman (North West). I will take the case of Comrade Oshiomhole last. However, the cases of Sen. Shuaibu and Alh. Abdulkadir have different dimensions. Alh. Abdulkadir was alleged to have been suspended by his Magajin Gari. “A” Ward, Sokoto North Local Government of Sokoto. Alh. Abdulkadir was alleged to have carried out some anti-party activities during the 2019 Governorship election in Sokoto State. His Ward Executive raised the charges against Alh. Abdulkadir and decided on his suspension, which the NWC endorsed. “In the case of Sen. Shuaibu, it will be recalled that in May 2019, he (Sen. Shuaibu) wrote a letter to Comrade Oshiomhole asking him to resign due to alleged incompetence. The NWC was then reported to have set a five-man Disciplinary Committee led by Otunba Niyi Adebayo, then Deputy National Chairman (South) to investigate allegations against Sen. Shuaibu. The NWC was said to have suspended Sen. Shuaibu on the purported recommendation of Otunba Adebayo Disciplinary Committee. “Does the NWC has the power under the APC constitution to suspend any of its serving officers such as Sen. Shuaibu who is the Deputy National Chairman (North)? Without going into the details of the allegations against either Sen. Shuai