The President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba has hinted that unless urgent and drastic steps are taken to contain the spread of the coronavirus and also to exterminate the pandemic, the annual International Labour Convention (ILO) Convention 109 may not hold.  Wabba who disclosed this in a chat with LEADERSHIP  said Nigerian workers may not attend the 109th convention because of the ongoing coronavirus.  According to him, ‘’Organised labour will not like to expose Nigerian workers to risk of contacting the plague. As a result, workers from Nigeria may not take part in the 2020 ILO Convention unless it is brought under control.’’  Wabba pointed out that some countries have closed their borders and also suspended international flights, adding that attending 2020 Convention may be ruled out of the plan because Federal Government may not give such permission for Nigerians to travel to Geneva for the convention.  ‘’This showed that among the implications of not taking place in 2020 109th would mean that most of the nagging labour issues in the 184 countries that made up International Labour Organisation (ILO), would be left unattended to and new conventions would not be generated to guide employment, child trafficking and other issues in the nearest future.  ‘’As the Conference is the supreme deliberative organ, it normally meet annually in Geneva, with a session devoted to maritime questions, and other labour-related issues when necessary. National delegations are composed of two government delegates plus one delegate representing employers and one representing workers.  ‘’ As every delegate is entitled to vote individually non-government delegates can speak and vote independently of the views of their respective Governments. The primary function of the conference is to adopt international labour conventions and recommendations by a two-third majority of the votes cast by the delegates present.  ‘’The International Labour Organization (ILO) is the tripartite UN agency that operates for the improvement of working and living conditions through the adoption of international labour conventions and recommendations, setting minimum standards in fields such as wages, hours of work and conditions of employment.’’  According to him, one of the principal functions of the ILO is setting international labour standards through the adoption of conventions and recommendations covering a broad spectrum of labour-related subjects and which, together, are sometimes referred to as the International Labour Code, adding that the topics covered include a wide range of issues, from freedom of association to health and safety at work, working conditions in the maritime sector, night work, among others.