The Urhobo apex socio-cultural umbrella body, Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) Worldwide, has raised the alarm over the continued killings and acts of terrorism in their communities. Speaking on behalf of the group, the president-general of UPU, Olorogun Taiga, reiterated its call on the federal government to urgently tame the activities of marauding herdsmen across Urhoboland and other parts of the country, warning that it will no longer tolerate any further attacks by suspected Fulani herdsmen in their communities. The group also called on the Delta State House of Assembly to immediately revisit and enact anti-grazing law, to halt the continued killings of farmers and locals by terrorists operating in the name of herdsmen particularly in the state. UPU described the killings in Uwheru Community as a sad commentary and urged all relevant agencies, both at the state and federal governments, to ensure that the marauding herdsmen vacate Urhoboland. Olorogun Taiga, accompanied by UPU Board of Trustees chairman, General Orho Obada (Rtd), Prof. Wilson Ibodje, Prof. G. G. Darah, Chief Emma Okumagba, Dame (Mrs) Christie Siakpere, Hon. Abel Oshevire,  and other executives of the union, demanded justice for families of the victims. According to him, “We are here in solidarity with the entire people of Uwheru Kingdom, and more importantly to assure Uwheru people that they are not alone in this; the UPU and Urhobo Nation are with them and share in their grief and pains. “Truly, words cannot compensate you for your loses and the lives that have been changed forever.  Words cannot fill the vacuum in your lives caused by the death of your loved ones, an event which has turned you into widows, made you fatherless, orphans, and, possibly left some without heirs. But, I want to assure you that our thoughts and prayers are with you, now and always. “It is so heart-rending that this senseless massacre of defenceless citizens of the Urhobo Nation by suspected Fulani herdsmen took place without provocation, and while our sons were legitimately engaged on their farmlands, for food and day-to-day living. This is highly condemnable. “Our ancestral lands, farms, forests and agricultural resources must be free from these hostile and vicious herdsmen. The continued presence of these killer herdsmen greatly hampers the productivity and profitability of our people and farmlands. The consequences of these on the peace, social cohesion, market stability, local economic survival and food security of the Urhobo Nation, are negative and beyond comprehension.  “The lethal attacks and killings of our people by Fulani herdsmen in Uwheru and other communities in Urhoboland will no longer be tolerated. There shall be no room for foreign invaders in Urhoboland. The Urhobo Nation will never, ever surrender or cede an inch of her territory to any stranger. Enough is enough! These suspected killer Fulani herdsmen must be stopped.”  The UPU president-general, while calling for the enactment of anti-grazing law across the state of the Niger Delta region especially in Delta, charged President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to muster the political, moral and constitutional will to stop the herdsmen killing in the country, particularly in Urhobo communities.  “The UPU demands justice for the victims of these herdsmen killings. Those responsible for the killing of our people at Agadama, Avwon, Ohoro, Oreba and Okugbe Communities must not go unpunished. Impunity does not have a place in the Laws of Nigeria, Delta State and our Communities. The Law must take its full course.  “The Urhobo People are law-abiding, but our patience is fast waning. It is the duty of the federal government of Nigeria to protect the lives and properties of every citizen of this great Nation. Mr. President must act now, lest anarchy reigns.  Taiga commended the prompt response by the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, Rev. Francis Waive, General Orho Obada and other Urhobo sons and daughter who helped to restore calm to the affected communities. 