… Suspends LG Chairman, Deputy Following the violation of the market closure order, the Rivers State government has imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew on Obiri-Ikwerre Junction (Ozuoba, Rumualogu) to Choba and from Education Bus Stop to Agip Junction, all in Port Harcourt. Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, who disclosed this on Monday in a state-wide broadcast, said the State Security Council reached the decision after it monitored compliance with the state government’s directive. Wike said: “With effect from Tuesday March 31, 2020 there will be a dusk to dawn curfew from Obiri-Ikwerre Junction (Ozuoba, Rumualogu) to Choba and from Education Bus Stop to Agip Junction, Ikwerre Road. “All beer parlours and public drinking joints are hereby closed because they have suddenly  become an extension of night clubs that were earlier shut down. “Any beer parlour or public drinking joint found to be open shall be acquired by the state government. “All landlords are advised to warn their tenants who use their property as beer parlours or public drinking joints to adhere to this directive. “Traditional rulers, youth leaders and Community Development Committees are to ensure that beer parlours and public drinking joints in their areas remain closed.” The governor charged traditional rulers, youth leaders and Community Development Committees to ensure that all beer parlours remain closed. He said: “Any Traditional Ruler who allows markets to be open in his domain will be deposed. “Government is investigating the illegal operation of markets at night at Woji and Elelenwo communities. Further violation by residents of these two communities will attract declaration of curfew.” Wike, who stated that further violation of the directive for markets to remain closed will attract a state-wide curfew, announced waivers to different categories of persons in view of the directive of the state government. They include: Medical and pharmaceutical personnel, food and beverages, essential oil and gas staff, petroleum products and media workers and newspaper distributors. “All these categories of staff  must identify themselves with valid identity cards. “My dear good people of Rivers State based on suggestions by well-meaning Rivers people, government is looking into the setting up of food markets across the state.” 