Protocol It is a great honour to welcome you to this year’s LEADERSHIP Conference and Awards ceremony at which the recipients of the LEADERSHIP awards 2019 will be feted. Our awards have continued to maintain their very high standard and integrity, because of the painstaking thoroughness our board of editors and top management put into the assignment. Every nomination is interrogated both intensively and extensively within the context of the nomination and, sometimes, additional research is done before conclusions are reached. We also test our results with knowledgeable and independent outsiders. I would, therefore, like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the award winners of this year. You have joined the exclusive club of past awardees, which has as its members President Muhammadu Buhari, President Goodluck Jonathan, General TY Danjuma, Imam Abdullahi Abubakar, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Justice Aloma Mukhtar, Godwin Emefiele, Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, Professor Attahiru Jega, Sultan Sa’ad Abubakar, Cardinal Onaiyekan, and a host of others. The theme of this year’s conference is “The Economics of Border Closure”. The very bold decision of the president to shut Nigerian borders has been commended even by some of his greatest detractors like former President Obasanjo, even though he himself did not do it when he was president. We have seen the positive effects. For too long, our neighbours have taken us for granted. You can imagine the entire economy of a country, Benin Republic, built on smuggling into Nigeria. Benin Republic built a special port for that. That country is probably the greatest economic saboteur of the Nigerian nation. So it was an excellent idea that the borders were closed. Lessons have been learnt and we have shown our mettle as a regional superpower. Now is the time to move to the second level. Now that it is clear to all that the West African economy is totally dependent on the Nigerian economy, it is time to reopen the borders and dominate the region. We must now force our neighbours to peg their currencies to the naira, and if we insist and put the structures on ground, they might even like it. And any country that does not play ball, we completely shut out again. The economic and political benefits of such action can only be imagined. Another reason to reopen the borders at this point is that those whose duty it is to man the borders, especially the customs people, have turned the border closure into personal advantage. The closed borders are now their personal toll gates. That should not be allowed to continue. To all our awardees, I say: the punishment for hard work is more work. I hope you will continue to beat your own records. As for us in LEADERSHIP, our credo remains “For God and Country.” A speech by the chairman of leadership Group, Sam Nda-Isaiah, at the leadership Conference and Awards Ceremony held on March 19, 2020, at the International Conference Centre, Abuja 