In this piece, DANJUMA JOSEPH, takes a look at the decisions of some states in the north to enact laws banning street begging by almajiris. The move against out-of-school children (Almajiri), street begging and hawking in the north is gradually gaining momentum with three  governors, Abdullahi Sule, of Nasarawa,  Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna and Abdullahi Ganduje, of Kano States and the Plateau, joining the crusade. His Eminence, the Sultan of Alhaji Saad Abubakar, the Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, added their various voices to the clarion calls for the urgent need to ban street begging.  Nasarawa State In Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, Governor Sule, on Wednesday, 26th February, 2020 issued an Executive Order prescribing 10 years imprisonment for parents whose children engage in street begging. The governor equally signed into law the Child’s Right Protection Executive Order (2005), which bans street begging across the state. Sule  signed the laws at a combined ceremony, which held at the Taal Conference Hotel, Lafia. Explaining further, the governor said, the anti-kidnapping law spells out various offences relating to kidnapping, prescribing stringent punishment for perpetrators. While the child’s right protection order, apart from prohibiting street begging, provides punishment for parents who out of negligence, abandon their children to beg in the streets in order to survive. He warned that any building used in keeping victims of kidnapping and other heinous crimes, will henceforth be forfeited to government. The governor also pointed out that the law banning street begging would only be implemented after ways have been identified to address the menace of street begging by the Almajiri. “This will guarantee the safety, security, wellbeing, care, good health and education, as well as guarantee the future of our children” “Those currently begging will be taken off the streets and enrolled in schools to make their lives worthwhile. “It is only those who are currently begging on our streets that government will provide for, so any persons who bring children from other states again will be jailed if caught. “Without sounding immodest, the order, apart from prohibition of street begging, provides punishment for parents who out of irresponsibility threw away their children for street begging,” he said. He further noted that Nasarawa State has no problem with the Almajiri School System, but said the state would sanction parents who send their children to such schools from faraway places, only to abandon such children to take to street begging. He said that government was not against the Almajiri system, but it was against street begging under whatever guise. The governor said that the order was part of the implementation of the Child’s Right Protection Executive Order, 2005 of Nasarawa State pursuant to section 5 (2) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended. He, therefore, called on parents, Tsangaya instructors and stakeholders to comply with the order as violation would not be tolerated. Earlier in an introductory remark, the state’s Attorney-General and commissioner for justice, Abdulkarim Abubakar Kana, said the current spate of kidnapping and related offences in the state has assumed alarming proportions. Kana added that, in addition to efforts by the state government to combat crimes, the state’s House of Assembly, in its approach to issues touching on the lives of the ordinary people, passed the Nasarawa State Anti-Kidnapping Law 2019. He further explained that the executive order on child’s right protection, was geared towards protecting children from exploitation and abuse, neglect, abandonment, while at the same time guaranteeing education for all.  Kano State The Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje on Tuesday, 25th February, 2020 announced a ban on street begging by children popularly referred to as Almajiris. The governor’s spokesperson, Abba Anwar, in a statement said the effort was to fully consolidate the free and compulsory primary and secondary school education in the state. Anwar said the decision was meant to integrate the Almajiri system into the policy and address the lingering problem of street begging. Gov Ganduje warned that henceforth, Almajiri teachers must accept the new approach put in place by the state government. “If an almajiri teacher thinks he cannot accept the new policy he has to leave the state. “When Almajiri are caught begging, it is not only that the beggar is caught, but also his parents or guardians. Such parents or guardians would be taken to court to face the wrath of the law,” Mr Anwar quoted his principal as saying in the statement. According to the statement, the governor announced the decision during the launching of Basic Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), and Distribution of Offer of Appointment to 7,500 volunteer teachers, held at Sani Abacha Stadium. “This policy of free and compulsory basic and secondary education goes along with its integration of our Almajiri system into the mainstream policy implementation. This suggests that English and Arithmetic must be included in the Almajiri schools curriculum,” the governor said. This, according to him, will give those children other types of education, while they will continue acquiring their knowledge of the Holy Qur’an. “That will give them an opportunity to continue with their studies to secondary schools and beyond,” the governor highlighted. At the event, 7,500 newly recruited teacher volunteers under the BESDA programme were given letters of appointment. “They will be posted to Islamiyyah and Almajiri schools, so that our Almajiri schools would be fully integrated under our new policy of education,” the statement added.  Kaduna State The Kaduna State Government, was the second to place a ban on street hawking and begging, as well as commercial motorcycle activities in the state capital and environs, in March, 2017. The ban was an outcome of resolutions reached at the State Security Council meeting held at the Government House. Briefing reporters after that meeting, the then Special Assistant to the Governor on Media, Samuel Aruwan, who is now a Commissioner said the decision was reached so as to maintain law and order in the state, based on credible intelligence report of security threat to lives and properties. He explained that the ban was with immediate effect and will remain in force till further notice, while asking the citizens to be law abiding, that is abide by this and other government directives. “Kaduna State Security Council has announced the enforcement of subsisting restrictions on begging, street hawking and usage of motorcycles for commercial transport in Kaduna metropolis and other urban centres in the state. “Credible reports at the disposal of security agencies have made it necessary to begin vigorous enforcement of the laws against street begging, hawking and the illegal business of motorcycle taxis, as well as safeguard lives and property. “Law enforcement agencies have been directed to begin enforcement of the restrictions against begging, street hawking and Okadas/Achabas in Kaduna town and other cities in the state. “The directive is with immediate effect and is based on cogent security concerns and the need to uphold law and order in the state. “Citizens are urged to cooperate with the security agencies as they enforce the relevant laws; the directive is clear. “No motorcycle is allowed to carry any passenger. Beggars and hawkers are also reminded by this notice to leave the streets, please,” the Governor’s spokesman said.  Plateau State Plateau State Government was the first in the country in 2009, to ban street begging and the display of sick persons on major highways within Jos, the state capital. The then Commissioner for Information and Communication, Pastor Yiljap Abraham, made the disclosure after the State Executive Council meeting chaired by the then Governor, Senator Jonah Jang. Urging strict compliance, Abraham stated that the new directive was with immediate effect. “The state government has observed with dismay the influx of beggars from unknown destinations to most streets in Jos, the Plateau State capital” “The state government is not comfortable with this situation as some of the beggars might pose serious security threat to people of the state. “We are also set to stop all individuals who display sick persons on the road to source for money, as such persons should be taken to hospitals for medical attention, not on the road. “We want to warn that such practice should stop henceforth and all those involved should take note or face the full wrath of the law” he said.  Sultan, Emir Of Kano and Ooni Of Ife, React His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has been in the forefront of condemning street begging (almajiri) since 2012. Sultan, first bared his mind at a one-day workshop on “Zakkat and Endowment in Contemporary Society” organized by the Sokoto State Zakkat and Endowment committee in Sokoto, where he said it was disheartening to see beggars still roaming the streets of Sokoto, “begging is un Islamic and there should be an urgent solution to this menace.” According to him, street begging by children has no basis in Islam and challenged those engaging in the act to find other means of earning a living. Sultan Abubakar, who is also the President-General of Jema’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), has spoken at every given opportunity, condemning street begging in its totality. “Almajiri system of begging is not representing Islam and must, therefore, be dissociated from Islam. “Islam encourages scholarship and entrepreneurship and frowns at laziness and idleness as exemplified by itinerant Almajiri. “Therefore, attempt must be made to stop the practice of Almajiri system of begging among Muslim faithful,’’ he said. Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, has also been in the forefront advocating for laws to be enacted by state governments, to tackle injustices in marriages just as he recommended the arrest of fathers that send out their children as Almajiri to beg for alms He made another call recently at the opening of a national conference for repositioning the Muslim family for national development, organised by the Nigerian Supreme Council for  Islamic Affairs in conjunction with Future Assured, a pet project of the First Lady, Aisha Buhari. He said the Qu’ran does not back the irresponsibility being witnessed in marriages as well as parents forcing their children into loveless marriages. Sanusi, charged the men to take full responsibility for their marriages, especially in economic terms, by marrying only when they can take care of a wife, and having children they can cater for. The monarch emphasized that no law supports a man to marry, have children and then abandon his responsibility to them. According to him, any man that is too poor to take care of his family should go out and do the begging himself rather than sending his children to do so. Sanusi said rather than arresting the innocent boys, any parent who turned his child or ward to an almajiri should be arrested. “Everyday wives are complaining about their husbands who claim their rights but abandon their responsibilities of marriage, women being divorced with their husbands not taking care of the children and those children ending up on the streets, drugs, political thuggery, violent extremism.” The Emir of Kano announced that after several months of thorough works, himself and the Sultan have successfully packaged a set of laws to address some of the issues to be submitted to Governor Ibrahim Ganduje of Kano State, for onward transmission to the State House of Assembly for consideration and passage into law. He asked: “Do you just marry and have children without any responsibilities? The reason Allah send His Prophets is that there should be justice in this world. Justice in our relationship with our maker and in our relationship with our fellow human beings. “Justice means that everyone is given his rights. If a man takes the privilege of being the head of the family, he takes the responsibilities of being the provider of the family. You cannot take that privilege and abandon the responsibilities. “It is only the governors who can pass the laws to say that when a man divorces his wife, it is his responsibility to provide for the children, it is the Courts and Security system that will enforce. “So, the problem is these groups of human beings are those who will stand to answer to Allah if there is no justice. “The traditional and religious leaders have an obligation to ask for justice, but those with the political powers have an obligation to put in place the processes that will make sure that these justices are complied with.” The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, also advocated for digital solutions that can make parents more responsible for their children. “There is a problem in our country and we should face it. Enough of us talking and talking, we should all join hands to walk the talk. “The problem of almajiri is not just a problem of a particular section of this country, it is a problem of each and everyone of us. “Like the Emir of Kano said, we shouldn’t blame them, we should blame those that brought them to this world. It is very important we look at other ways and means of how to better the lot of their lives. “We need to promulgate laws that will force fathers to be very responsible for their children. We can even link it to BVN. Today, everything is digitalised, we have to link children to those irresponsible fathers, producing children that are becoming menace to the society. “It is time they take responsibility for their actions, if you cannot confiscate their assets, confiscate their bank accounts, make life miserable for them, make life unpalatable for them so that they will be very serious about taking issue of birth control seriously” Ooni said.  Kano Ulamas and Kaduna Beggars Revolt The Kano State Council of Ulama has criticised Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s decision to ban street begging across the state. In Islam, the Ulama are ”the guardians, transmitters and interpreters of religious knowledge in Islam, including Islamic doctrine and law”. The chairman of the council, Ibrahim Khalil, expressed this in an interview with newsmen. “It is not feasible and the government is not serious”. “Necessary steps towards curtailing the practice have not been taken or put in place before taking the decision. “To us at the Council of Ulama, the government cannot do it and is not serious about it. They are just doing it to appease their ‘masters’ abroad, or get their money or some kind of noise making.  “Or they might have been accused of something from somewhere for which they simply organise a ceremony and that is all. That is our opinion,” he stated. On their part beggars in Kaduna State staged a protest over the law banning street begging and hawking, as they gave Governor Nasir El-Rufai a seven-day ultimatum to withdraw the law. The beggars have reacted to the new development as contrary to the promises made to them during the campaign and have threatened to occupy the Government House in their large numbers if El-Rufai would not withdraw the law.  The beggars which comprise of the blind, deaf, and the physically challenged, stormed the Kaduna State council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) secretariat, lamenting that they did not mind sacrificing their lives in the fight against the law while stating that nobody could stop them from begging without providing alternative means of survival.  Conclusion This decision though a hard one considering the divergent views held by some people for and against street begging by Almajiris with superior voices, in favour of those against the practice could not have come at a better time than now, given the negative effects of street begging which is a worrisome phenomenon in the northern part of the country. One is always at pain seeing how these innocent children under any weather condition, parade streets and households begging to fend for themselves, their age disposition notwithstanding. In  the process  the unlucky ones among them  are subjected to societal abuses of all kinds such as rape, kidnapping, child labour among others. Arguments in support of street begging by Almajiris by some scholars is lame without a place in Islam, as the Sultan and Emir of Kano, stressed. It is purely a product of shying away from responsibilities by some  parents in the habit of giving birth to children by chance, instead of choice for mandatory care. Equally unacceptable is the decision by some of these parents, that children should be sent far away from home  for better acquisition of Islamic knowledge or better still, where Islamic schools  are mostly located. This is out of place because the level of awareness in Islamic religion today, has opened opportunities in every nook and cranny of the Nigerian society with Islamic learning centres and qualified scholars. In childhood, children are better trained through informal education under the tutelage of their parents and that is one important aspect of upbringing these innocent children are missing. The dangers inherent in this phenomenon is that most of them end up not acquiring the basic knowledge they were rolled out for, as they spent most of their time trying to find ways to feed themselves, and where such is not forthcoming they take to criminality. However, the diplomatic approach as envisaged by these three state governors and our revered traditional rulers to end street begging by Almajiris, is commendable as such will erase any negative  mindset that the move is aimed at subjecting a certain class of the society to unnecessary humiliation. One cannot but agree with the governors, that the mass influx of Almajiris to some major towns of  recent  could be a  security threat to the nation. The position of the leaders contesting against street begging, attests to their ability of knowing that this is one perilous issue currently confronting their states with voices of reason yearning for solution. As the popular saying goes ‘A stitch in time, saves nine’. 