Security operatives Tuesday took over parts of Port Harcourt City and Obio/Akpor local government areas of Rivers State, as the state government imposed a 24-hour curfew on the affected areas. LEADERSHIP observed that the security operatives include soldiers, Police and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Nigerian Airforce and Department of State Service (DSS). They barricaded major roads leading to Education Bus Stop to Agip Junction, Ikwerre Road, in Port Harcourt City local government area as well as Obiri Ikwerre Junction to Ozuoba, Rumualogu and Choba, in Ohio/Akpor local government area. Commuters in the affected areas were stranded as commercial vehicles were not allowed to operate while residents were forced to raise their hands up while walking along the streets. Recalled that Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike had, in a state-wide broadcast on Monday, declared dusk-to-dawn curfew in the affected areas following a decision of the State Security Council. However, residents of the state woke up to see large number of security operatives on the affected areas. Announcing the imposition of the 24-hour curfew, the Rivers State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim, said the action was in the state government’s quest to further prevent spread of the coronavirus in the state. Nsirim, who state that the curfew affected identified key areas of the state with high human traffic, said it was an is an improvement from the dusk to dawn curfew earlier imposed by the state governor The statement reads in part: “This is to inform members of the public that the curfew imposed at Education Bus Stop to Agip Junction, Ikwerre Road and Obiri Ikwerre Junction to Ozuoba, Rumualogu and Choba is for 24 hours with effect from today,  March 31,2020 till further notice. “It has also come to the notice of the state government that some banks are closing down in the state. The curfew is targeted at only some parts of the state. “Therefore, banks have no excuse to shut down their operations. Any bank that is found to be closed will find it very difficult to reopen for business in the state.” 