As coronavirus continues to hit parts of the globe, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has hinted that more than 20 vaccines are at development stages globally, while several therapeutics are in clinical trials. The coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak which originated from China has spread to all the continents except Antarctica. The disease is a novel virus, and as such there is no known treatment or vaccine to combat it. This has led to the spread of the disease to over 49 countries with over 2000 deaths. Resource-sharing director-general of WHO, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said the continued increase in the number of COVID19 cases and the number of affected countries over the last few days had become an issue of great concern. Since the disease broke out, the UN health agency has been working closely with China to understudy the disease process and what medication seems to be working or not. A WHO-China Joint Mission has also made some recommendations on their findings so far on the outbreak. The WHO chief said the WHO-China Joint Mission has published its report “and it is available in English on the WHO website and will also be posted in China on the National Health Commission website”. He continued: “The report includes a wealth of information, and 22 recommendations for China, for affected and unaffected countries, for the international community, and the general public. “It calls for all countries to educate their populations, to expand surveillance, to find, isolate and care for every COVID19 case, to trace every contact, and to take an all-of-government and all-of-society approach – this is not a job for the health ministry alone”. Ghebreyesus said while research was ongoing, governments and the people need to take responsibility for the safety of everyone. “We don’t need to wait for vaccines and therapeutics. There are things every individual can do to protect themselves and others today. The key to containing this coronavirus is to break the chains of transmission,” he said. According to him, epidemiologists from the WHO had been “monitoring these developments continuously, and we have now increased our assessment of the risk of spread and the risk of impact of COVID19 to very high at a global level”. He added: “What we see at the moment are linked epidemics of COVID19 in several countries, but most cases can still be traced to known contacts or clusters of cases. We do not see evidence as yet that the virus is spreading freely in communities. “As long as that’s the case, we still have a chance of containing this coronavirus, if robust action is taken to detect cases early, isolate and care for patients and trace contacts. As I said Thursday, there are different scenarios in different countries, and different scenarios within the same country. “Your risk depends on where you live, your age and general health. WHO can provide general guidance. You should also follow your national guidance and consult your local health professionals”.  China Shares Treatment Procedure With Nigeria China has shared its treatment procedure of the coronavirus (Covid-19) with Nigeria, Health minister, Osagie Ehanire, has said. Ehanire, while briefing journalists in Abuja on the newly confirmed case in Lagos, said China has shared with Nigeria some of the treatment knowledge gathered while treating patients with the disease. He said China did that out of its good gesture and relationship with the country. Nigeria on Friday confirmed its first case of the coronavirus disease which originated from China in December and has since spread to about 53 countries. While Nigeria is just experiencing its first case and the third country in Africa after Egypt and Algeria, who confirmed a case each, many countries in Europe and the Middle East have been reporting the outbreak and deaths from the disease. Ehanire said, “China knows more about the disease and they have made some successful treatments. “We have received a lot of cooperation from the Ambassador of China who had come to visit twice to reassure us of his commitment and to give us the support in anyway. “They have sent us a treatment protocol because they have succeeded in treating over four or five thousand people in their country and we have sent the protocol to our centres here to study and add what they already know. They have shared the treatment procedures with Nigeria and this will assist in the treatment of confirmed cases.” He added that this will help the country and the experts will not be fighting blind like China did because the virus is a new one “and it’s behaviour is not yet very well known. He, however, said the country will also keep watching out for new information and results from ongoing researches on the virus and updating when necessary. Officially, the exact cure of the disease has not been determined, but over 20,000 infected persons have recovered from the disease in China.  US Records First Death Meanwhile, one person has died from Coronavirus in Washington State, the first death from the virus in the US, health officials confirmed yesterday. The person died in King County, Washington, the state’s Department of Health said. More information was expected at a press conference. “It is a sad day in our state as we learn that a Washingtonian has died from COVID-19. Our hearts go out to his family and friends. We will continue to work toward a day where no one dies from this virus,” Gov. Jay Inslee said in a statement Saturday. “In partnership with the Washington State Department of Health, the Washington State Department of Emergency Management and local and community health partners, we are strengthening our preparedness and response efforts. I am committed to keeping Washingtonians healthy, safe and informed,” he added. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump will speak at a press conference at 1:30 p.m. ET at the White House about the latest developments in the outbreak. The Washington state death came a day after health officials in California, Oregon and Washington State reported four new apparent cases of the novel coronavirus, named COVID-19, raising concerns that it is spreading through West Coast communities. Authorities said three of the cases – an older Northern California woman with chronic health conditions, a high school student in Everett, Washington, and an employee at a Portland, Oregon-area school – had not recently travelled overseas or had any known close contact with a traveller or an infected person.  Lagos Patient Stable, Moved To New Facility Lagos State government has said the victim of Coronavirus disease is stable but has been moved to a new facility. The state Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi who revealed this to journalists said, “I have spoken to him myself, he is doing very well, he is comfortable; he was comfortable yesterday and he is comfortable today”. The Commissioner noted that the patient was initially kept in a single isolation room for his privacy when he was brought in because part of the facilities at the Mainland Hospital was being renovated. He added that the patient has subsequently been moved to one of the newly renovated wards. He continued: “We were renovating part of the facility, so we kept him in a single isolation room for his privacy but we have subsequently moved him to one of our completed wards recently renovated with full complements of facilities, so he is right there now and he is comfortable. “As of this morning, his condition has improved, he hasn’t developed new symptoms but he still got a mild fever and we will be running test to see what the situation is with the virus in his body and as soon as we get a negative screen, we will keep him for another two or three days and repeat the test to make sure that there are no more virus particles in his saliva and that means that he will not be contagious. Then, we give the OK for him to be released back into the community”. Answering question on the vulnerability of health workers who works at the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, he responded that the staff at the facility have been specially trained to deal with patients who have pathogens of high consequence. “They are experts in infection prevention and control and they do not go into the isolation unit without full personal protective equipment. This is a specialist facility and there is no level of carelessness going on in this facility. The staff here including the staff in the bio-safety level laboratory are well trained and certified biosecurity specialist, so there is no unprofessionalism in this environment”, Abayomi said. On the issue of availability of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), the Commissioner assured that a stock of several hundred kits are available at the mainland hospital adding that PPEs have also been distributed to all the general hospitals and major primary health care facilities. “So we are stocked up for now, if we need to buy more, we know exactly where to get it, so we are not worried about PPE supply”, he added. While restating that the State government is prepared to contain and break the circle of transmission of the virus, he explained that the Lagos State Government have been building capacity for any biosecurity threats to Lagos since the Ebola virus incident of 2014. “We have been preparing since Ebola incident of 2014 and as soon as Lagos was certified Ebola, we have been building capacity. This is evident in the level of sophistication in some of the facilities here at Mainland hospital. We have not been sitting down or relaxing, we don’t want to experience what happened in 2014 again, so we are ready and we will continue to build that capacity year by year”, Abayomi stated. The Commissioner disclosed that the reformation plan for the Mainland hospital is a step by step process but very advanced adding that new facilities are being designed for the hospital with the ultimate goal of making it a centre of excellence for infectious diseases with a large capacity for isolating patients if there is any major outbreak. “Presently, we are refurbishing the facilities to make sure anybody will bring here is in comfortable position. We are trying to improve the internal facilities of the wards; one ward is complete, it can hold 14 patients, the tents are complete, they can hold another 20 patients each, the fourth ward will be completed in another two days, that would hold another 14 patients”, he said.  3 Quarantined In Plateau Fear of the spread of Coronavirus has gripped residence of Wase local government area of Plateau State as three Chinese citizens have been quarantined in the area. The state commissioner for Health, Dr Nimkong Nda, who confirmed the development to journalists yesterday, said the Chinese were suspected of arriving the state on Friday from Ethiopia for mining activities. He said the suspects had been isolated at a centre for proper investigation by the health workers who had been sent to the area since Friday. Meanwhile, Plateau State government has debunked the rumour going on the social media that there is a suspected case of Coronavirus in the state. According to a statement issued in Jos by the commissioner for Information and Communication, Hon Dan Manjang, there were three Chinese miners in Wase local government area who flew from China recently to Nigeria through Abuja to Plateau State. He pointed out that for that reason, the Plateau State Ministry of Health has placed them on Isolation to determine whether they have contacted the virus or not.  CAN Goes Spiritual, Calls For Prayers The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has called for prayers against Coronavirus disease (COVID-19), saying the three tiers of government must rise up to the challenge now that the country has recorded its first case. In a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja yesterday, signed by its general secretary, Joseph Bade Daramola, CAN stressed the need for the federal government and the other tiers government to be proactive in order to contain it and prevent its spread. The association said it would not cease praying until the disease was chased out of the country. Daramola  said, “According to Deuteronomy 28:61, is a curse of the law but according to Galatians 3:13-14, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. Therefore, we have been redeemed from the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and every other terminal disease in Jesus Name. “The God who answered our prayers when the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD), which is deadlier, came calling is still on the throne and that same God will also grant us victory over the COVID-19 in Jesus Name”. CAN, however, called on the nation’s politicians not to politicise it but join hands together to ensure the disease does not spread as we also advocate cooperation and understanding between every state and the federal government. “CAN urges every church to make water, soap and sanitisers available for worshippers before and after service, beginning from tomorrow. We appeal to all Nigerians, irrespective of their religious and political persuasions, to embrace simple rules of hygiene regularly for safety reasons,” it added.  Beware Of Fake News On Coronavirus, Lagos Govt Warns Meanwhile, the Lagos State government has warned the general public to be wary of fake news being disseminated by certain individuals bent on aggravating coronavirus outbreak in the state. The state, in a statement signed by the commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said its attention has been drawn to various false stories, particularly on the social media, in respect of the identification and quarantine of the 44-year-old Italian, who tested positive to Coronavirus, on his return from a business trip to Turkey. Omotoso said, “One of the stories alleged that the patient became angry and attempted to escape from the isolation ward due to what it described as the unsuitable condition of the Infectious Diseases Control Hospital in Yaba. “Another said that an individual, who claimed to have driven the Italian to Ogun State, escaped from hospital and has threatened to spread the virus all over Nigeria. He is said to be seeking N100million for his family to deter him from the ‘suicide mission. “It is disheartening that some mischief-makers are handling the coronavirus issue with levity and peddling fake news at a time medical science is focused on how to stop the infection.” The commissioner further said the situation calls for vigilance and soberness, not wicked jokes and frivolities. He explained that the state government, in conjunction with the Federal Ministry of Health and the Ogun State government, remains focused on entrenching measures to contain the infection and would not be distracted by activities of those who seem to be unconscious of the gravity of the situation.  Don’t Panic, NOA Tell Nigerians Sequel to the confirmation of the first case of Coronavirus Disease (COVID19) in Nigeria by the Federal Ministry of Health, the National Orientation Agency (NOA) has called on Nigerians not to panic. Director- general of NOA, Dr. Garba Abari, made the call in statement made available to newsman by his assistant director of press, Mr. Paul Odenyi, after a one-day in-house enlightenment programme to create awareness on coronavirus disease and also equip staff of the agency with basic prevention and sensitisation tips, in Abuja. Represented by the director, Special Duties and State Operations, Mrs. Mette Edekobi, Abari admonished Nigerians to be cautious and apply necessary preventive measures including regular washing of hands with soap and water or use of alcohol containing sanitisers. “Other measures were to avoid touching the eyes, nose and mouth with unwashed hands; covering the nose and mouth with napkin, handkerchief of nose mask while coughing or sneezing and; keeping at least five feet distance from anyone coughing or sneezing. The federal government, through its health authorities have activated necessary strategies to control and contain the disease,” he said.  Kaduna Sets Up Emergency Centre The Kaduna State government has constituted an Emergency Operational Centre (EOC) to respond to any eventuality of Coronavirus. This followed the announcement of the first case of Coronavirus (COVID -19) in Lagos last Thursday. A statement issued by the ministry for Health yesterday stated that the committee would be chaired by the commissioner, Dr Amina Mohammed Baloni, adding that it was  set up to respond quickly, in the event of an outbreak of the disease.  Ondo Govt Calls For Caution Following the outbreak of coronavirus in Lagos and Ogun States, the Ondo State government has appealed to residents of the state not to panic but take certain actions which could help in the situation. The government, in a statement issued by the commissioner for health, Dr Wahaab Adegbenro, said maintaining hygienic environmental and health enhancing practices such as constant hard washing would go a long way in curbing the spread of the disease to the state. Adegbenro noted that the health and welfare of the people of the state has always been the priority of the Akeredolu led administration in the state. The commissioner said, ‘’Following the outbreak of coronavirus in Lagos, which is just a few hours’ drive from Ondo State, It has become imperative to sensitise the public on this looming danger, which is threatening the entire human existence. “Corona virus also known as COVID 19. is a new viral illness that was first detected in China, late last year. Since then, the disease has spread to several other countries (above 50 as at today). “The disease is characterised by a flu-like symptom of fever and cough which Is often associated with shortness of breath, It can rapidly progress to pneumonia and later, complicated by respiratory failure. “Several tens of thousands of people have been infected worldwide and over 2,000 have died of the outbreak. Prior to the outbreak in Lagos, the federal government had taken several tentative steps to prepare for its detection among arrivals at air and sea ports, as well as provide isolation and quarantine centres. “With the confirmation of a case in Lagos a few hours away, it has become imperative for all stakeholders to join hands to prevent its outbreak in the state”.