The Katsina State Police command, has rescued the 13 prospective Corp members abducted by kidnappers along the Funtua local Government Council of the state. The prospective Corp members who are from Akure Ondo state, heading to Zamfara orientation camp through katsina when the Gunmen attacked them and abducted four, before the they were rescued by a combined efforts of Army, Police and repentant bandits. The police commissioner in the state, CP Sanusi Buba, revealed this while addressing journalists in katsina, said the 13 Corp members were also rescued along side with 6 other kidnaped victims at Doka forest in the state. CP Buba who spoke through the command’s PPRO, Gambo Isah, added that the combined team “succeeded and killed six (6) of the kidnappers, recovered one AK 47 rifle, one Lar rifle, seven round of 7.62mm and twelve rounds of 7.67mm ammunition were recovered from the bandits”. The released Corp members were later taken to Governor Aminu Bello Masari where he assured that their promtp released is a clear demostration that katsina is not only safe but free from all sort of banditry attacks, adding that government would not relent it efforts in ensuring that those bent on molesting innocent citizens are fully purnished. He therefore appreciated the new found partnership and inter-agencies coorperation that is now existing among the security operative in the state, insisting that it should be extended to repentant bandits because of their in-depth knowledge on the security terrain. ” I am happy now that really the Army and the police are working hand in hand together with Directorate to the State Services in order to make sure that the the issue of kidnapping and banditry has been lay to rest not only in katsina state I believe all over. ” My appeal to the general public is to be security conscience”, he added Also speaking, the special Adviser to the Governor on security matters, Mr Ahmed Ibrahim Katsina, thanked the Governor for his matching order that facilitated the immediate released of the adopted Corp members, assuring that the present momentum against perceived threat to the security of the state would be sustained. Some of the adopted Corp members narrating their ordeals in the hands of the bandits, including Ojo David, Ojewale Yetude, Oladehin Olamigoke and Ademibuyan Adeboyaga, said they were attacked on Monday night by 11:30pm at Funtua by men in military uniforms who later turned out to be bandits as the they started shooting “kudi! kudi !!, kudi !!!, they were eventually robbed their belonging including hand sets, bags among others, after which four of them were taken into the forest by the bandits. The four kidnaped members complained that they have to tracked long hours in the forest and even have to sleep on top of a rock till the early morning hours of Wednesday when they were rescued by a team of security operative. The state NYSC Coordinator, Alhaji Yahaya Ahidjo, who stood in for the Director General of the Corp, Brigadier General Shaibu Ibrahim thanked the Governor for rescued of the 13 Corp members and the N100, 000 he gave to each of them, who have now requested to be redeployed to Katsina state. He said in his 25 years of service in NYSC and haven visited the 37 camps nation wide, katsina state remains outstanding because the special attention accorded by the Governor.