…Sanusi To Chair Convocation Lecture About Seventy-six students would be awarded first class at the 24th graduation ceremony of the Lagos State University (LASU), scheduled to commence on Friday 20th to Friday 27th, March, 2020. The vice chancellor, Professor Olarenwaju Fagbohun, at a pre-convocation press conference, told journalists that total number of 8,959 students will participate in the convocation ceremony. Fagbohun said best graduating students with Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.95 is Mr. Shotunde Oladimeji Idris of the department of Business Administration, Faculty of Management Sciences who emerged the overall best graduating student. He said, “This is a huge achievement and we are very proud of him. It is instructive that Shotunde and another of his colleague, Kehinde Adebiyi have just written a book titled ‘Nature Pays Diligence’ – a compendium that chronicles their experience of that last four years, adding that the University is very proud of this initiative of theirs in that it will go a long way to help those who are coming behind.” Fagbohun added, “A total of 8,959 graduating students will receive their degrees, diplomas and certificates this year’s, out of which 6,485 will be awarded first degrees in various faculties, while 2,620 students will receive Higher Degree as approved by the university senate. A total of 1183 finished in the Second Class Upper Division while 4494 are in the Second Class Lower Division. In the Third Class Division, we have 418 students graduating in the category while 26 with Pass degree. He also noted that in addition to the list degrees, the University will be awarding 35 doctorate degrees, 1034 Professional Masters degree, 664 Academic Master Degree and 887 Postgraduate Diplomas to make a total 2620 higher degree awards. In the breaking down of the number of the First Class graduates, the outgoing VC said, the number of first class produced this year is the highest number in the history of the university adding that the breakdown showed that the Faculty of Art produced 4 first class graduates among which is the first class graduate in English Language, first ever from the department. The convocation lecture is expected to hold on Thursday, 26th March 2020, with the theme: “The Future Of Developing Economies In A Digital World” which will be delivered by the President, Africa Export-Import Bank Afreximbank, Professor Benedict Okey Oramah. While the former Emir of Kano, Mallam Mohammed Sanusi, will chair the convocation lecture. 