The Chief Bisi Akande-led reconciliation committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has embarked on a conciliatory mission with a view to reconciling feuding members of the party. To begin with, the committee has implored aggrieved members of the party to drop all court cases and unite as one. Chairman of the committee, Chief Bisi Akande said he was not aware of the motivations behind litigious conduct of members of the party even though he will not describe it as negative or harmful motives. He pointed out that those seeking access to the courts to decide what are basically political questions might think they are doing the right thing. Akande said, “If this is the case, I must state that they are innocently in error. Their actions are harmful to the party in compound ways. First, the subject matter they bring before the court is not amenable to judicial pronouncement. The manner by which court decisions are rendered – one side wins, the other loses – is not the best way to resolve political disputes. “Again, such disputes are better treated by dialogue and the give-and-take that dialogue engenders. Courts do not proceed in such a manner. Second, to resort to the courts casts the party in a negative public light. Third, this penchant for litigation undermines party discipline, internal dispute resolution mechanisms and institutions”. In a letter asking members to unite, Akande reminded them that the party constitution requires that all internal dispute resolution measures be exhausted before a member approaches the court. He added: “I dare say this provision has not been honored either in spirit or in letter by those initiating these court cases seeking to oust party officials. More specifically, along with several other respected party members, I have been appointed as a member of the party’s special reconciliation committee. I have been given the further honor to be the committee chairman. This committee was the product of discussion and deliberation of party organs such as the NWC and NEC. “No one has contended that this committee was improperly established. The committee’s mandate was to investigate and submit recommendations regarding the dispute in Edo State involving national party Chairman, Oshiomole and Governor Obaseki as well as inquire into disputes in other states that might weaken the party. All party members are aware of this decision. “Thus, it runs contrary to the explicit decision of the party and is severely premature for members to seek judicial intervention in areas that form the very subject matter of the special committee’s mandate. To do this even before the committee has had time to do and finish its work not only insults the committee. It offends the NWC, NEC and the entire party”. Accordingly, he called on all party members to honour the rightful and correct decisions of the party leadership, saying they “should allow the committee to do its work and should stop seeking judicial intervention in matters under the purview of the special committee until the committee has done its work and the party leadership has acted upon its recommendations. “For members to act otherwise would be to discard the party constitution and ignore the tenets of deliberation and compromise upon which all successful political parties are founded”, he added. Meanwhile, deputy national publicity secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena has faulted the party’s endorsement of acting national secretary, Victor Giadom, to replace Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as APC chairman, describing it  as strange. Nabena also disclosed that Giadom had officially resigned his position in the National Working Committee (NWC) to contest as running mate to the party’s 2019 governorship candidate in Rivers State, Tonye Cole. Reacting to the legality of  the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting convened by Giadom and his purported endorsement to replace Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as national chairman, he called on party stakeholders not to lose sight of due process and the dictates of APC’s constitution. Nabena said, “I call on members of our party and the public to disregard the so called zonal caucus meeting which held on Thursday at the Edo State Governor’s Lodge in Abuja. The meeting was neither convened nor attended by the APC National Vice Chairman (South South), Hilliard Eta and Leader of the party in the South-South, Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege. Hence, all decisions reached at the purported meeting is a nullity and definitely does not reflect the views and stand of the Party’s South South caucus. “Specifically, on the purported meeting’s request that the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) confirm Victor Giadom as acting National Chairman, we cannot be taken for a ride because of the political and 2023 presidential aspirations of his (Giadom) sponsor and godfather who is attempting to control the Party’s structure. “It should be known that Victor Giadom tendered his resignation letter to the National Working Committee (NWC) to contest the 2019 election as the Party’s Deputy Governorship candidate in Rivers State. It is strange and an aberration that he still attends meetings of the NWC, occupies the office of Deputy National Secretary and convenes a NEC meeting. In our politicking, we must not lose sight of due process and the dictates of the Party’s constitution.”