President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed the executive director, Finance and Administration of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh as the new director-general of the agency. Insider sources in NIMASA yesterday confirmed to LEADERSHIP that Dr Dakuku Peterside whose tenure is expected to end on March 10, 2020 was not given a tenure renewal. An insider source who craved anonymity, confirmed that the DG whose tenure will be ending on Tuesday will hand over to Bashir Jamoh on Monday or Tuesday. Peterside who was appointed to head the maritime agency has introduced so many reforms since he was appointed DG on March 10, 2016. Peterside had launched a quick response operation, Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP), aimed at returning the agency and the maritime sector to the path of growth and sustainability. That was followed by an expanded strategic repositioning and restructuring initiative captured under five pillars, namely, Survey, Inspection and Certification Transformation Programme; Environment, Security, Emergency Search and Rescue Transformation Initiative; Digital Strategy Reforms; Capacity Building and Promotional Initiatives; and Structural and Cultural Reforms. However, the newly appointed DG, Jamoh, who hails from Kaduna, is also the current president of the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria. The 56-year-old holds a PhD from the University of Port Harcourt, specialising in logistics and transport management. He also holds a master’s degree in management from Korea Maritime and Ocean University, a post-graduate diploma in management sciences from Bayero University, Kano and a diploma in accounting from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. Jamoh is also said to have 32 years of professional experience in the transportation and maritime sector. He is  the author of the book, Harnessing Nigeria’s Maritime Assets: Past, Present and Future. Jamoh joined NIMASA in 2003 as an assistant chief commercial officer, eastern and central zones. He served with the Kaduna state government before transferring his services to the then National Maritime Authority in 1994. 