…Govt Sacks Tide Newspaper GM Over Coronavirus Story Following the closure of all land, air and sea borders in Rivers State to curtail the spread of coronavirus, residents of the state have embarked on panic buying of food items and drugs to stock-up amid a further spread of the virus in the country. This is as the Rivers State government sacked the General Manager of the Rivers State Newspapers Corporation (RSNC), publishers of The Tide Newspapers, Mr. Vincent Ake. LEADERSHIP observed that major markets in the state were filled with consumers buying in large quantities in the case of an eventual shutdown of activities in Port Harcourt, the state capital, following a state-wide broadcast by Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike. Wike had in his broadcast on Wednesday announced that from 6:00pm on Thursday, March 26, 2020, there would be restriction of vehicular movement in and out of the state. A visit to Creek Road Market in Port Harcourt, showed that residents were stock piling for foodstuff in the state, the consumers were mainly buying provisions, toiletries and food items with long shelf-live. One of the residents, who spoke to LEADERSHIP on the condition of anonymity, said: “Nigeria has over 50 confirmed Coronavirus cases now and we do not know what will happen next, so I am stocking up my house with food items that would last for a month.” Another resident of Port Harcourt, Joseph Aiyeba, said: “I have to come and buy some things now before you here the prize has gone up. “It all started like this in Europe the numbers kept rising and now they have shut down completely. I pray we do not experience that in Nigeria but I still need to prepare.” Meanwhile, the Rivers State government has announced the sack of General Manager of the Rivers State Newspapers Corporation (RSNC), publishers of The Tide Newspapers, Mr. Vincent Ake. The Commissioner for Information and Communications, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim, in a two-paragraph statement made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt, did not state the reasons behind Ake’s sack. However, a source close to the sacked General Manager, said the action of the state government may not be unconnected with a front-page story of the Tide Newspaper of Thursday, March 26, 2020, which confirmed the outbreak of coronavirus in Rivers State. The newspaper’s story was debunked by the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Nsirim, who said the state government does not know how the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) came up with the story.  