The Nigerian banking sector has responded positively to recent measures by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) with the rise in aggregate industry credit from N15.3 trillion in May 2019 to over N17.4 trillion in January 2020. CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, who disclosed this yesterday at a roundtable session on pathways to growing the nation’s economy, added that one of the critical measures that helped to boost growth in 2019 was the impact of the apex bank’s new minimum loan to deposit ratio, which was initially at 60 percent, and subsequently raised to 65 percent. The CBN had also imposed restriction on access to OMO auctions in order to encourage banks to lend to the real sector. He however admitted that a lot still needs to be done to improve on credit to real sector of the economy. “We intend to sustain these policy measures, as it will help support improved economic growth and create more employment opportunities,” Emefiele stated. The CBN boss noted that the economy faces considerable challenges, just as he maintained that Nigeria’s reliance on crude oil for more than 80 percent of its foreign exchange earnings and sixty percent of government revenues, means the economy is exposed to the impact of corona virus outbreak on crude oil prices. He noted that projected declines in revenues as occasioned by the drop-in crude oil prices constrains the government’s ability to meet its infrastructure commitments in 2020, which is vital if it is to achieve its double digit growth target. “We must also use this opportunity to consider funding for infrastructure projects that improve access to markets for farmers and SMEs, while also connecting the railways to our ports, in order to increase our non-oil exports. Such schemes will support greater economic growth and help free up funds for the government to focus on other priority objectives,” Emefiele said. He said Nigeria needed import substitution to allow way for growth in the manufacturing industry to grow a developing country like Nigeria. Second edition of its kind, the roundtable session is focused on generating great and workable ideas and solutions to address domestic and external challenges to growth. The one-day roundtable session was designed to address some of the measures needed to drive double digital growth rate in Nigeria. These include, improving productivity in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors. Second, how to develop funding models that would support improvements in the quality of our energy and transport infrastructure.    