In furtherance to the measures it had taken to mitigate the impact of the spread of Coronavirus on the Nigerian economy, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday announced more stimulus packages, including assisting pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners with forex and loan facilities for local drug production. This brings the combination of the measures to N3.5 trillion, even as the apex bank has directed that oil companies sell their foreign exchange proceeds directly to it. Rising from an emergency bankers committee meeting in Lagos yesterday, CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, said the committee which is made up of bank chief executives resolved that profit will not be the primary motive of the banking industry at this time. “Rather, preserving confidence, financial stability and support for the economy will be the overriding objectives”, he added. To ensure that the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the economy is not damning, Emefiele said in addition to the N1 trillion in loans to boost local manufacturing and production across critical sectors that had been announced last week, the CBN will have an additional N100 billion intervention in healthcare loans to pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners intending to expand/build capacity. There will also be the activation of the N1.5 trillion InfraCo Project for building critical infrastructure alongside the creation of N50 billion targeted credit facility for affected households & SMEs and the granting of regulatory forbearance to banks to restructure terms of facilities in affected sectors. These measures are in addition to the earlier steps taken, including additional moratorium of one year on CBN intervention facilities, interest rate reduction on intervention facilities from nine per cent to five per cent and the strengthening of the loan to deposit ratio (LDR) policy which is encouraging significant extra lending from banks. Also, in a bid to improve foreign exchange supply to the CBN, the apex bank is directing all oil companies, both international and domestic as well as all related companies including oil servicing companies, to sell forex to CBN and no longer to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Emefiele said, “The Committee discussed the significant health and economic crisis caused by the novel Coronavirus (COVlD-19) which has resulted in escalating worldwide infections, deaths, disruptions in global supply chains, travel restrictions and turmoil in the international financial markets. “It was resolved that the CBN and banking industry will collaborate at this critical moment with one coherent strategy to provide confidence to the customers, counter parties, the public and most importantly, put Nigeria first. “The industry has learnt lessons from previous crisis, including the 2008 global financial crisis and the oil price slump of 2016, which will be applicable and position the industry to better deal with this crisis.  Engagements will be held with correspondent banks, trade creditors, trading partners regarding existing LC and trade commitments. The industry is committed to resolving these commitments in a comprehensive and orderly way. There will be transparent and open communication with all counterparties. “In view of the significant disruption of the global supply chains, the bankers committee advises Nigerians and companies to begin prioritizing their import needs and focus more on sourcing raw materials and inputs locally. The industry resolved that profit will not be the primary motive at this time. Rather, preserving confidence, financial stability and support for the economy will be the overriding objectives. “Given that this crisis is first and foremost a public health crisis, we are paying particular attention to our health industry. As aforementioned, global supply chains have been disrupted including dominant drug supply channels from China and India. In fact, many countries have or are planning to ban export of drugs and medical supplies from their countries. Clearly, we have no choice but to produce these items locally. “Thus, the Committee has identified a few key local pharmaceutical companies who shall be granted Naira and FX funding facilities to support procurement of raw materials and equipment required to exponentially increase local drug production in Nigeria. These include but are not limited to Emzor, Fidson, GSK, May & Baker, Unique Pharma, Swiss Pharma, Neimeth, Sagar, Orange Drugs, and Dana Pharma.”