Bishop Sam Zuga of house of Joy ministry, the founder of both Samzuga free medical treatment and Samzuga international has offered to treat anyone with coronavirus free of charge and also said, “Anyone with coronavirus should be referred to him for treatment”  Speaking on the lockdown at the healing crusade organised to sensitise people about the Coronavirus in Yola, Adamawa State and also shedding more lights on why he is not afraid of the deadly virus and he’s willingness to heal anyone who has Covid-19,  Bishop Sam Zuga said:”No virus can survive in my body, my body is the temple of God, it can’t accommodate  anything called virus.”  Speaking further, he said: “Corona virus is not different from other diseases God has been using me to heal. A virus cannot decide for me. I can stay at home when I want, not when Corona is giving orders.  I can’t stop going to church because of a mere virus. How can I dishonour the Creator because of the creature? I cannot help the devil to kill people by forcing them to stay at home and be killed of hunger. There is no difference between who died of Corona virus and who died of hunger.  People that are killed by Boko Haram and herdsmen are more than Corona in Nigeria. If we acted drastically against these two as we did to Corona virus, Nigeria could have finished with the issue of insecurity since. I am the light of the world. Light is needed when there is darkness. Corona virus is the current darkness in the world. How can light run away from darkness?  Christians were crying that Buhari is islamizing Nigeria. Now that common virus is closing churches, what name can we give this?  Is it ‘coronising’ Nigeria or ‘virusing’ Nigeria?  The darker the darkness the brighter the light, I will use this thick darkness and shine the light of Christ among Nations. This is the best time to prove that Jesus Christ defeated Satan truly.”  Bishop Sam Zuga challenged the devil together with his killing agent called Corona virus by personally anointing over ten thousands participants in the healing crusade with what he called ” ANOINTING FOR PRESERVATION”.  “I am calling on all sick people, not only victims of Coronavirus in Nigeria and beyond to meet me in Yola, Adamawa State. They will surely go back with a tangible testimony,” he assured. 