The minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Mohammed Nanono, has described  Cross River State as one of the states in Nigeria to be seen as a reference point as far as the country’s Agro industrial revolution is concerned. Nanono gave the commendation Saturday in Calabar while speaking during a Town Hall meeting organised by a group of agro industralists operating in the South South geo-political zone. In his words, the minister said, “Cross River State has done a lot in agro industralisation not just for its people but the whole country. “We are happy to have the state as a  reference point in agro industralisation in the whole country. “Cross River is a none oil producing state with probably the least allocation  but to achieve what they have done is remarkable. “This is the beginning of agro industralisation in the country and the synergy and value chains created at the macro level is what the country needs to reduce the level of unemployment”. The minister challenged youths in the state to do all they can to ensure that agro-industrial sector is embraced, stressing that mechanisation remained a  major challenge besetting the sector in the country, even as he called on youths  to tackle that issue. He said that the federal government was doing everything possible to provide mechanised farming in 632 Local government areas across the country. He further stressed that the federal government is poised to give support to the state in the area of agro-industrialisation, adding that the federal government will never toy with matters pertaining to agro-allied industries. The minister called on stakeholders in the south south geo-political zone to position themselves in the proper perspective so that they can put the agro-industrial sector in the real place for increased productivity and ensure that there was food security in the country. Responding, the governor of the state, Ben Ayade, stated that Cross River will do everything possible to ensure that it channels its resources in agricultural production to stimulate economic growth. Ayade stated that initiatives like the GMoney will go a long way to reduce unemployment in the country by creating young millionaires. “We are prepared to make young millionaires from our green revolution in agriculture and this initiative requires every hand to be on the plough  as we declare green economy in the state. “As a state, we shall continue to develop initiatives that will strike a chord in our infrastructural development by identifying key signature projects that will significantly assist in stimulating agricultural production and transform our economy” the governor said. He also appealed to the federal government to come to the aid of the state in completing some of the capital projects which he claimed have the potentials of unlocking the economic fortunes of the country. The minister who visited some of the capital projects which include rice city, calapharm drug and cosmetics factory still under construction, ultra modern rice / cocoa processing factories sited in Ikom and Gala LGAs of the state as well as the Garment factory and the Ayade industrial park, sited in Calabar, the state  capital.