Dear President Muhammadu Buhari, I hope this letter finds you well, healthy and hearty. As one of your ardent supporters, right from the time you contested the number one seat in the country, from 2002 to date, my support for you is still and will forever be intact. When you come to power in 2015, the security situation in the country was in distress, with Boko Haram insurgents controlling about 14 local government areas in the northern region. The Boko Haram insurgents hoisted their flags and administered everything in those places. But in fulfillment of one your major campaign promises, you stemmed the tide, to an extent that they lost control of those 14 LGAs. With that, the Northeast geopolitical zone became your biggest stronghold in the 2019 election. Your achievement from 2015 to 2019 interms of security is undisputed. It was excellent. However, recent developments in the nation’s security situation casts doubt in the minds of many, whether we are going back to exactly where we came from, when the insurgency was at its peak in 2014. With kidnapping and banditry in parts of the country, especially in the Northwest, to serious increase in pipeline vandalism in the Niger Delta. In a nutshell, all is not well with the security of the country. Mr President, if things are allowed to continue in this direction, all the achievements you recorded in the last 4 years will be erased. Do not be carried away by those who believe that you are in power because of their efforts, we all are. It took the efforts of all of us to put you in Aso Rock, we sacrificed so much. I can vividly remember that I casted my vote around 12:30 pm at my ward in 2015. We agreed that women should be allowed to vote first so they can go back home early. I alongside my brother who happens to an electrician by profession, were going round in my car to make sure that we provided small tiger generators (which we hired) with fuel and connected wires to ensure that there was light in many polling units in my local government. I was the last to cast my vote. This is to say that everybody contributed in one way or the other in securing your victory. Furthermore, it is because of the belief that we have in your ability to do justice, no matter who is involved in whatever circumstances, among other things that we voted for you. But what happened at Auno recently, less than 20 kilometers from Maiduguri, Borno State capital , took me and many other Nigerians by surprise. A place that is a check point of the Army. People were not allowed to enter the state capital when it was 5pm so they were left there at the mercy of the insurgents, as they drove to Maiduguri. Hours later, the insurgents struck and killed many, destroying properties, including buses, trucks and cars. Mr President, this is unacceptable, we expect that a panel of inquiry should be set up without delay, and those found guilty be made to face the full wrath of the law. Up till now, there is no such thing. Nevertheless, as a former Army General, you know better than I do. But what I do know is that an offense was committed, and some soldiers must be responsible. Many of your supporters are in disarray, they are living in a kind of terror. They are confused and do not know what to believe anymore. I used to reach you on phone to exchange pleasantries during electioneering in early 2015. But now with security, protocol, I understand it is not possible any more. This is the only way I can reach out to you. Your supporters are not happy. Many of us believe that some unpatriotic people have an unprecedented influence in your administration. It is time to do the right thing and do away with anybody in your cabinet who does not share your views of safeguarding this country. What happened in Auno, as unfortunate as it is, has exposed a lot of security gaps in your administration, which need to be tackled head on. The issue of welfare of troops, corruption within the Military hierarchy, poor intelligence gathering, lack of synergy between the Office of the National Security Adviser and the leadership of the Nigerian Army, and many other things. In view of the above, as an Ex-General, you know that no country can win a war with such scenario. The issue of troops welfare is a cause for concern. My brother was deployed to the heart of the insurgency late 2015 despite being certified by the Nigerian Army Hospital as having active Hepatitis B virus and was ill. He miraculously survived a Bolo Haram ambush and returned to Maiduguri as his health was deteriorating. Months later, his salary has stopped and until now , he has never received a dime and was not dismissed. There are many of such instances. That’s why when Borno State Governor publicity shouted angrily that soldiers were collecting N1,500 from travelers who don’t have National Identity Card, I did a write up and suggested checking the root cause of such ridiculous behavior, which is unbecoming of a Nigerian soldier. Finally Sir, hope you will use your good offices to address all the issues that I have raised, because failure to do that will leave a dangerous legacy to the Nigerian youth. I have mentioned in many of my write ups that you mustn’t fail, if you do (God forbid), people will believe no one else will succeed in salvaging this nation. And corruption will be the order of the day. Your fight against corruption needs to be stepped up. We cannot have a situation where a Director receives a salary lower than a fresh graduate in another Agency in the same Federal Government and expect corruption to be wiped out. There has to be a way of harmonizing the salary structure, so that people will stop using every corrupt means at their disposal to get to a particular Agency or position. I still believe you are the best. Do the right thing and Nigeria will be great again. Thank you, Mr President. – Gumel, wrote from Dutse, Jigawa State