President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday approved the appointment of Justice Monica Bolna’an Dongban-Mensem as the new acting president of the Court of Appeal. She is to serve in acting capacity for an initial period of three months with effect from today, March 6, 2020, when the incumbent president of the appellate court, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, will statutorily retire from service. A statement by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, to this effect noted that Justice Dongban-Mensem, who is the next most senior judge of the Court of Appeal, will be acting pending when a substantive appointment to the position of the president of the appellate court would have been made by President Buhari subject to the confirmation of the Senate. Shehu said Buhari’s approval of the appointment of Justice Dongban-Mensem followed the recommendation of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Muhammad Tanko, in line with the provisions of section 238(4) & (5) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa yesterday officially bowed out as the president of the Court of Appeal after the mandatory retirement age of 70 years. In her place, Justice Dongban-Mensem of the Enugu division of the appellate court is expected to preside over the affairs of the court. At the valedictory session in honour of the retired appellate court president, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) has called for the immediate appointment of more justices for the Court of Appeal, noting that some divisions of the court do not have the quorum of five justices for the constitution of a full panel. The president of the NBA, Mr Paul Usoro (SAN), in his remarks on the occasion, noted that out of 86 justices that are currently on the bench of the appellate court, only 23 of them, which is barely 30 per cent, are females. Usoro said, “Indeed, the number of female justices of the Court of Appeal reached 10 only in 2005 with the elevation of Denton-West- JCA 18 years after the elevation of Mukhtar JCA (as she then was) and 12 years after the elevation of Ige JCA. “As at date, out of 86 Justices of the Court of Appeal, only 23- barely 30%- are female. With such a poor record in gender diversity, the epoch-making achievement of Bulkachuwa PCA, truly calls for celebration and corrective steps in enlarging the coast of our diversity and gender inclusion”. On the need for the appointment of more appellate court justices, the NBA president said he was perturbed that some justices of the Court of Appeal had been greatly overworked due to the paucity in their aggregate number. He said, “Ideally, some divisions, like the Lagos Division of this Honourable Court should have not less than 3 panels that sit regularly and consistently to reduce and spread the workload; and that means, having more JJCA that are posted to these divisions. “Not to be forgotten is that we have in the recent months been blessed with additional and newly-created Divisions of this Court which, by itself, enhances access to justice but also compounds and stretches beyond the limits the work schedules of the limited JJCA that we currently have. “The NBA, therefore, calls for the immediate appointment of additional Justices of the Court of Appeal not just for the extremely busy Divisions of the Honourable Court but for literally all the Divisions, the need for which we would illustratively show presently. “To pave way for those appointments, we call for a concomitant amendment of the provisions of the Court of Appeal Act to allow for the appointment of sufficient number of JJCA that would ensure that no Division of the Court of Appeal would have less than 6 JJCA posted thereto and the particularly overworked and overloaded Divisions like Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt would have no less than 10 to 15 JJCA posted thereto.” In her valedictory speech, the retired president of the appellate court, Justice Bulkachuwa, pointed out that there was need for more attention to be paid to the educational development of the girl child in Nigeria. She said, “My life has been awesomely phenomenal. I was born at a time when girls hardly went to school and even when they did, they were not allowed to go beyond elementary level before being married off. I was lucky I had a father who encouraged me and taught me to reach for the sky. “There are profound meanings and lessons in life and my life continues to bring them to the fore. If I could achieve all these in spite of the adversaries I faced, every girl child in Nigeria and indeed the world can also aspire for the great strides towards it and achieve it. ”More than academic success and career elevation, every girl has the potentials to live in and make her world a beautiful one. There is so much love to spread to those whose language you speak and those you don’t even understand.”