Following the spread of coronavirus to states, the state Borno government has upgraded an isolation centre at Brigadier General ABBA Kyari memorial hospital for emergency response. The state urged visitors to Maiduguri to avail themselves at the Maiduguri International Airport for surveillance screening of temperature. The state’s commissioner of health, Dr. Saliyu Kwaya- Bura stated this while updating newsman on the preparedness of the state towards averting the outbreak of the ravaging disease. Dr. Kwaya- Bura said beyond surveillance, the state has upgraded the isolation centre at the Brigadier Abbà Kyari memorial hospital which was used for response to Lassa fever outbreak some months ago, for isolation of COVID-19 patients. He said:” I want to clearly state that Borno state has no record of any case of coronavirus. However, the Borno state Ministry of health has put in place a very robust preparedness plan and response to tackle the disease should it rear its ugly head. ” In line with that , we have worked tirelessly with other partners to come up with measures that will serve all responses to emergence of infectious diseases beyond COVID-19 . ” The Maiduguri International Airport had since 2nd of March been conducting daily surveillance by measuring temperature of all arrivals from outside Maiduguri. Surveillance has also been increased in all the communities where there are internally displaced persons (IDPs). ” We have prepositioned the basic respiratory support equipment and staff to be deployed to these facilities within the shortest possible time, should the need arise. We have also worked out modalities in collaboration with the ministry of transport, the state Emergency Management Agency ( SEMA ) and others for protection of people in the public places, especially markets, motor parks and IDPs camps,” the commissioner said. Dr. Salihu reported that about 222,000 cases of the CORONAVIRUS have been reported worldwide with 9000 deaths as at the time of his address and called on the people to adapt simple preventive meaeures such as avoiding huge gatherings, washing of hands with soap and water, using hand sanitizer and coughing or sneezing into shoulders or the inner part of the elbow. He advised the public to seek medical attention in case of fever and also appealed to the public to avail themseves for screening as well as self quarantine for 14 days after returning from any of the infected countries. The Commissioner gave the assurance that Borno Ministry of Health is alive to its responsibilities in detecting and responding to any outbreak. Speaking on the Lassa fever, he said two cases were detected resulting in one death while the other fully recovered and has been discharged , living his normal life. He added that five weeks after with ongoing survillance , no new case has been recorded, pointing out that the 2020 season has come and gone even though surveillance is still on.