It is an uncommon sight in today’s world to see a woman on the rooftop of a building doing the roofing work, but Hannah Terry, a 30-year old carpenter, is such a woman. The mother of three has braved the odds and has stood her ground in the male-dominated profession, in fending for her young family. CHIKA MEFOR-NWACHUKWU tells the story. Terry, a fairly tall, dark-complexioned and masculine-built young woman is not your everyday woman as her slight stoop betrays a life of very unusual experiences. Wearing a low haircut and possessing a gait that often puts her out as male, one may not be able to tell at first glance what gender she belongs to. The most striking thing about this mother of three is her determination to make a mark in her chosen profession. Terry, a native of Nasarawa State of Nigeria, told LEADERSHIP that she found herself in the carpentry profession by mistake and chose it after she noticed that it pays better than the tailoring job she had earlier learnt. She narrated that her father had died a long time ago, living behind six children for her mother to raise, and added that growing up was not easy for her. She had learnt at a young age that she needed to do anything she could to help her family, and that was how she entered into carpentry. “Tailoring at that time was not giving me the money I needed.  My family was in dire need of money. If I had continued with the tailoring, I would not have met up with the needs of my family. I was like the head of my family at that time. Since I had a little knowledge about carpentry, I decided to shift to that area. “One of my uncles was a carpenter. He makes furniture. I use to go to his shop. However, I was not really there to learn. Whenever I came back from his shop, I will carry saw and cut wood to make small stools. That was while we were in the village, in Akwanga local government of Nasarawa State, around 2006, 2007. “When my mother moved us to Masaka, I started making small stools and saving boxes to sell,” she narrated. Terry added that while doing the carpentry work by the side, she also helped her mother in selling food at building sites. Whenever she had time, she watched the carpenters on the roof doing their thing. Her carpentry skills was not tested until her family moved to Gishiri and there was need to do some roofing in the new house they had rented. With no money available, Terry had to do the work herself and the roofing earned her commendations from many who saw her work. There and then, she started getting jobs to roof houses. “When I went to a construction site, I told one man that I was a carpenter, he doubted me and yet gave me a job in Maitama. He just decided to try me and I did very well and started getting jobs. I was learning from the job. The more I got to learn about something, the more I practicalize them when I got a job,” she narrated as her face beamed with smiles. Terry added that people doubted her being a carpenter, adding that her husband, a Togolese whom she married in 2008, refused to believe her when she told him about her work interest. “I started this job fully in 2009. I was around 19 years then. My partner did not even know I was doing the job because we were not staying at the same place. Because he was a chef, he had to stay in the residence where he was working. When I told him about the job, he thought I was joking. One day, he was watching NTA when they interviewed me; that was how he believed me,” she said. Things began to look rosy until her mother took ill.  She revealed that she spent all she had saved on her mother’s illness, and yet she died. While she tried to put herself together, she narrated that her husband just woke up one morning and left, leaving her with their two children and a six months’ pregnancy. With things being tight, pregnant Terry continued working even when she was almost due. “At eight months, I was still climbing the roof. There was a time that I climbed the roof and noticed that the wood was about crumbling because of my weight, I had to come down to allow my workers to continue,” she said. Terry narrated that giving birth to her baby was not easy due to complications. She added that even with the complications, her husband was not at hand to help, leaving her at the mercy of some friends who rallied around to see her and her baby leave the hospital safe. “I called him when I put to bed to inform him of the development. Meanwhile, I had already spent N40,000. He sent only N10,000. It was one of my friends who I called and pleaded with that helped me. My husband told the hospital to send their account number and he never sent any money. “When we were out of the hospital, whenever I called, he will refuse to pick. If I use other people’s number and he picks and hears my voice, he hangs up. I decided to delete his number. Right now, I don’t know where he is. “Last year before Christmas, he called and promised his children that he would come but he never did. My son now always tells me that his daddy can lie oo. Now that I am speaking to you, I don’t have his contact,” she revealed with sadness. Narrating how she was able to pull through after pregnancy with no help in sight, Terry said she had to leave her baby at home before he was three months to start working. Terry however said that the jobs she was able to get were small jobs and that the payment for the jobs hardly came in bulk for her to solve major problems in her home. This she said, led to her withdrawing her two older children from school, and that they’ve been staying at home for almost a year and a half now. “My first boy is ten and my second child, a girl, is seven. I wanted to enrol them this term but didn’t because I could not raise enough money, and the term has already gone by half. I am planning to put them in school next term, God willing,” she said. She further said that she would have opted to put her children in government school but that the government school in her area was far from her home. For now, her children have been helping her in no small measure by taking care of her little baby while she goes around seeking their daily bread. “If I go to work, it is my children that stay with the baby. If I am working close by, they bring him for me to breastfeed when he is hungry. Anytime I go outside for work, I usually buy milk for the baby. My children will give him before I come back,” she said. Apart from the fact that her baby had to endure her absence, Terry who had to cut her hair short said that being a female carpenter was not an easy task. She revealed that many a time, people would refuse to give her jobs because she is a woman. She added that she sometimes had to plead and even reduce her price in order to get the job. “If I go to see someone that needs my services, after seeing me, they will refuse to give me the job. I’ll then try very hard to convince them to give me the job. Sometimes it works. I usually charge lesser because they normally don’t feel I can do the job. I use to tell the employer that if I finish the work and he doesn’t like what I have done, I will refund the money,” she said. Terry stated that so far, no one has asked for refund as the people she has worked for have all confessed that she does a good job. Even at that, Terry said further that many men are still looking down at her, adding that she often got chided because the site owners think she was often too slow for their liking. “I receive a lot of shouting because maybe they think I am slow with the job. I know I am normally not fast like some people but my work comes out the best. I usually tell people that it is not about being fast to complete the job, but is all about getting the perfect job. If you rush the work, you might come back for maintenance. In my work, I normally don’t come back for maintenance because I always take my time to do the job,” she said. Terry however added that the job also has a good side to it as she has encountered people who gave her extra money for delivering well on the job. “At one time in Asokoro, one man was at the corridor of his house when he sighted me on the roof. He had to go inside the house to call his wife so that she will come and see me too. They were shocked. “There was even one that was so amazed that he gave me little money that day. He said he loved my courage. He saw me and was asking the site engineer if I was a man or a woman. He asked me about myself and promised to bring something for me when next he came to the site. He fulfilled his promise and the money came when I needed it most; my mother was not feeling fine, then,” she said. Terry is greatly hopeful that better jobs will come her way in the future so that she will be able to put her children back in school. The mother of three who never went past primary school, stated that she knew the importance of education and that her primary goal was to see her children back in school. Her dream extends to her younger brother whom she is planning to also send back to school, and who was also not able to continue with school for lack of finance. Remarrying is not in any way a priority of this brave woman since she had said that she might not even want her husband back, as her only wish was that he takes responsibility for catering for the children he brought into the world. “I am not considering remarrying because they say ‘if fire burn you, you won’t want to go back to it again’. It isn’t necessary for me. My children are my priority for now,” Terry added with determination written all over her face.