Salaam Alaykum Your Highness, I have come to realise that the best way to express my thoughts on issues pertaining to certain people is through addressing letters to them. Thus, I write this correspondence and perchance it will find a way of access to you wherever you may be. May Allah be with you, guard and protect you at this time of the vicissitudes which Allah causes to follow one another for mankind. (Aali-Imraan 3:140) Your Highness, it is said that the Bee was buzzing which caused the mosquito some consternation. The mosquito desired to quieten the bee by clinging on its back and biting repeatedly at the same time. After a while, the Mosquito said sarcastically to the bee: “Now, you have learnt some lessons on how to make less noise. I hope I  have not been such a pestilent.” The Bee answered: “Oh really? I was completely oblivious of your  clinging on my back, and for your bite, I’m immune to malaria!” I an certain Your Highness will remember the above narrative which I rehearsed as the Mater of Ceremonies (MC) before introducing you as the Keynote Speaker in the Joint Conference between the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) and The Future Assured Initiative of Her Excellency, The First Lady, Aisha Muhammadu Buhari at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja recently. And who besides you could have addressed the theme better which was on Repositioning The Muslim Family For National Development? The mosquito has more eyes than the brain as the eyes occupy most of the surface on the head. Very ugly eyes into which one might not wish to peer lovingly. The life cycle of the mosquito, Your Highness, consists of only four stages – egg, larva, pupa, and adult after which is extinction and insecticides. There will be no more sucking of blood after that period. We have virtually forgotten the life of the world is only just, and idle talk, and pageantry, and boasting among ourselves, and rivalry; as the likeness of vegetation after rain, whereof the growth is pleasing to the husbandman, but afterwards it dries up and it turns yellow then it becomes straw; the life of the world is but a matter of illusion. (Hadeed 57:20) When Your Highness walked to the rostrum after I introduced you to the audience at the NSCIA-Future Assured Initiative programme mentioned earlier, you said, referring to me: “Imam Siddeeq, I hope, in our private discussion, you will let me who the Bee is and who the Mosquito…” Your Highness, I assume the Mosquito role since my eyes are bigger than my brain and I’m so insignificant that even when I clung to the body of the Bee my presence of was not felt and my sucking of blood was naught as the Bee was immune to malaria. How can I compare my despicable self to the Bee that has a stinger, 5 eyes, and an oval-shaped brain about the size of a sesame seed with wonderfully retentive memory? As a Mosquito, I only suck blood and cause ailments, whereas the Bee secretes pure, palatable drink, diverse in hues, wherein is healing, and a balm for mankind. (Nahl 16:69) I was saddened by the images of your libraries – one filled to the brim with books at a time when you walked passed the shelves, and in another, it was empty, dry and devoid of the sources of knowledge. It was then amidst my deep melancholy that I saw the wisdom in the evacuation of that handsome collection of belles lettres as we in the animal world may not know the value of the burden we are carrying especially where the cargo involves books. (Jumu’ah 62:5) Your Highness, let me call to mind our meeting at the VIP Lounge of the Local Wing, Murtala Mohammed Airport, Lagos sometime when you were the Managing Director of First Bank Nigeria. Your uncle Ambassador Ado Sanusi died and you were trying to arrange for a charter flight to convey the body to Kano. After offering my condolences and making du’aa for the deceased I informed you of my displeasure over your rebuttal of late Sheikh Ja’far Mahmoud Adam’s khutbah where he mentioned by name and made some uncomplimentary remarks concerning you. You may wonder why I am bringing this issue up now since it has happened many years ago. Many had only read your response to him but did not know what occurred afterwards. They are now making reference to it in connection with the dethronement as a portent that you have got your just deserts. Sheikh Ja’far, may Allah have mercy on him, erred by calling a person’s name on the Mimbar and mentioning their faults. That was not the way of doing Da’wah with wisdom and fair exhortation. (Nahl 16:125) Sheikh Ja’far realised his mistake and sought for reconciliation and was advised to seek that through who later became Mai Babban Daki (Queen Mother). Sheikh Ja’far paid her a courtesy visit and when you heard of it you flew from Lagos to come and visit Sheikh Ja’far as a token of recognition of the reverence he accorded the later-to-be Queen Mother. That was how the resolution of the crisis between you and the late Sheikh was achieved and reconciliation realised, even though many people did not know. You have given an everlasting lesson in leadership from the contents of your last video – no rancour in the expression on your countenance, only deep resignation to what has been destined and counsel to your people to be calm and pledge fealty to your successor. Would that those among us who are in authority were this magnanimous even when they lose. The motorcade that left the palace on Monday, March 9th, 2020 escorted by stern-looking security personnel was not carrying a criminal but royal personage illegally dethroned, and who was supplicating Allah as did His emissaries before him: “My Lord, I am vanquished, so succour me.” (Qamar 54:10).  “Lo! Adversity afflicts me, and Thou art Most Merciful of all who show mercy.”  He prayed calmly with the certainty that Allah has heard his du’aa and shall remove from him that adversity and save him from the anguish and grant him bounty from His store. (al-Anbiyaa 21: 83-88) It is indeed remarkable, Your Highness, that the dethroner of a royalty cannot enthrone his father or his offspring; he has no option but to appoint someone within the royal lineage. May Allah’s peace be with you wherever you are.