Immediate Past general secretary of the National Union Of Textile, Garment And Tailoring Workers Of Nigeria (NUTGTWN), Comrade Isa Aremu has urged the federal government to set up a presidential task force on the revival of the textile industry. Comrade Aremu who is also the vice president of IndustriALL Global Union, said at a time, the price of Crude oil is falling and there is so much talk about diversification, it is time Nigeria revisit  the basic industry such as textile. The labour leader who made the remark at the 12th  Delegates’ Conference of the NUTGTWN said the textile industry is a strategic non-oil industry which in spite of its depressed state is still largest private sector employer of labour after government. He however expressed concern that the industry has been in steep decline due to several factors which include, lack of electricity, smuggling and lack of patronage. “This free fall has been slightly moderated in recent years by series of interventions including the Cotton, Textile and Garment (CTG) intervention fund managed by the Bank of Industry (BOI),” he said. Comrade Aremu recommended that the federal government should enforce a massive patronage of locally produced textiles by MDAs. According to him, there is need to do more to combat smuggling and counterfeiting of textile products, stressing that the fiscal authorities must try and compliment the commendable efforts of the CBN monetary and development financing measures He also called for an improvement in electricity supply saying there can never be industrialization without constant supply of electricity. He said, “With the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, (AFCFTA) recently signed by Nigeria, if President Buhari’s vision of revival of textile industry is realized Nigeria will be well positioned to trade in fabrics and benefit from the $3 trillion Africa free trade agreement. Comrade Aremu expressed satisfaction with the activities of the union in protecting the rights of its members despite the challenges associated with the sector. He said, “Notwithstanding the economic challenges of the textile sub-sector, 45 collective agreements have been signed with the Nigeria Textile Garment and Tailoring Employers Association (NTGTEA) since 1978, covering critical items that include basic salary, housing, transport, medical, food subsidy, leave/leave allowance, overtime among others.” He said the union commends the CBN for the spirited effort to defend the value of the Naira against the forces of devaluation. He said, “We join the NLC to commend President Buhari for the recent reduction in the price of petrol from N145 per litre to N125 per litre. However it’s not far reaching enough. The singular factor driving the official inflation currently at 12 per cent is cost of transportation. The price of petroleum product should actually be N86.50 as it was in 2016 when the Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachukwu announced the arbitrary increase under the guise of subsidy removal.”