The presidency yesterday debunked claims that President Muhammadu Buhari was behind the removal of Muhammadu Sanusi from the throne as Emir of Kano. Describing the insinuation as untrue, malicious and politically motivated, it said the president does not have a history of intervening in the affairs of any state in the country unless the issue at hand is of national consequence. A statement by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, noted however that on matters impinging on national security, the president has a duty of involvement as the law stipulates. The presidency was reacting to the allegation by a former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, that President Buhari masterminded the dethronement of the erstwhile emir of Kano. But refuting the allegation, the presidency pointed out that as outlined in the constitution, the appointment or removal of emirs and other traditional leaders is strictly within the jurisdiction of state governments. Shehu stated: “It is unfair and disingenuous of opposition politicians to try to link the situation in Kano State to the federal government and the Nigerian President. Although a retired General and former Military Head of State, President Buhari clearly understands that under the current democratic dispensation, the government at the centre cannot read instructions or twist the arms of all or any of the 36 state governments making up the federation. They all have their powers specified under the Constitution. “President Buhari commends the people of Kano for keeping calm in the past few days of the dethronement announcement. He prays that the will of Allah will be done at all times and that the emirate/state and its people continue to experience progress irrespective of who is on the throne”. In a two minutes video clip made available to journalists in Kano in the early hours of Wednesday, Kwankwaso had expressed disaffection with the way and manner Sanusi was dethroned and moved to Nassarawa State. He said the Emir’s banishment by the state government was unconstitutional. Kwankwaso who spoke in his native Hausa language described Sanusi’s removal as an act of impunity which is also beyond the powers of the state governor alone. He condemned the way and manner the Emir who he described as a global figure was treated, insisting that it was a violation of his fundamental rights as provided by section 35 of the constitution. Kwankwaso said, ”Honestly speaking what happened yesterday the 9th of March 2020 is a sad thing for the entire people of Kano, Nigerians and the entire people of the world because the dethroned Emir is a global figure because of the struggles he lead in his entire life especially when he served as the CBN governor and this job at the Kano Emirate. ”On this day, we have seen very annoying things especially the way impunity and disregard to the constitution and the laws were implored in dethroning His Highness the Emir of Kano. We see this action as totally unjust. ”More so, the way we saw deployment of Security agents, it is clear that this is beyond what a state Governor alone can do. Despite the intervention of his (Sanusi II) lawyers seeking for him to be allowed to move to Lagos where he chose, he was forcefully put in a plane and taken to the remotest place in the Country and after some plea he was taken to another part of the same Nasarawa state. ”We see this as a violation of the constitution especially as Nigeria has grown above this. It is especially a violation of section 35 of the Constitution which emphasises on the rights of the citizen. But even as you have chosen to use impunity to dethrone him, I wish to remind you that this is a democratic dispensation and not a military regime.”  Ganduje Exonerates President Sanusi’s Travails In the same vein, Kano State governor Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje yesterday moved in defence of President Buhari, saying the dethronement of Muhammad Sanusi and the subsequent appointment of the new Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, were carried out by the state government. Ganduje maintained that the removal of the former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, is the sole responsibility of state the government based on valid reasons that led to his travail. ”It is baseless and absolutely not true, therefore, to say that the presidency has a hand in this development,” he stated. The governor recalled that few weeks back, President Buhari made a categorical statement that he lacked the constitutional right to delve into Kano Emirate matters. The former emir, the governor added, breached part 3, section 13 (a-e) of the Kano State Emirate Law 2019, and if left unchecked, the breach would destroy the good and established image of the Kano Emirate. Ganduje stated: ”This Law is Kano State Law, not that of the federal government. So there is no point at all in linking this punishment with any other organ apart from Kano state government. ”So I wonder when someone would just appear from somewhere and alleged that the Presidency has a hand in Muhammadu Sanusi’s removal. Reasons behind his dethronement were stated clearly without any ambiguity”. He further stated that whoever links the presidency with the dethronement of Sanusi either has other ulterior motives behind this or is not in tune with practical reality.  Kano Govt Denies Banishing Ex-emir Meanwhile, the Kano State government yesterday denied banishing former Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi. Reacting to the position taken by Sanusi’s legal team, the state government said the ex-emir was not banished as speculated by his Counsels. The state’s Attorney-general and commissioner for justice, Barrister Ibrahim Mukhtar, described the steps taken by the state as the right thing done in the right direction. The Kano chief law officer said when the Sanusi was deposed, the statement confirming his deposition which was read by the secretary to the state government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji did not utter the word “banished” nor was it reflected in the letter of his deposition for anyone to capitalised on. Mukthar argued that the banishment of the deposed Emir was a decision taken in the interest of safety, peace and to avoid conflict. He said the security operatives who moved the ex-emir away from the palace to his current location in Nassarawa State were acting in line with the prevailing security circumstances in the state. He dismissed allegations by counsel to the former emir, A. B. Mahmoud (SAN), that the fundamental human rights of the deposed Emir were been infringed upon. Insisting that the state government solely executed an administrative role, the attorney-general further stressed that security agents were acting in tandem with security facts. Mukthar urged the former emir through his legal representatives to cross-check with security agents the facts and circumstances that determined the banishment. Arguing that the security operatives may have been acting to protect the palace, the families domiciled in the palace, he added that they also may have acted to ensure the safety of the deposed emir. He alleged that unauthorised persons at the time were reported to have gained access into the palace, warranting the need for safety measures, even as he said the security agencies must have acted in the overall interest of the people of Kano, an action which he said would have been determined by facts and circumstances. He urged lawyers to Sanusi to obtain comprehensive facts from security agencies to appraise what led to his banishment before branding his banishment as a breach of the fundamental rights of the former emir. According to him, banishment of emirs in the aftermath of their deposition is an old tradition which dates back to colonial era.  Village Head Explains Sanusi’s Relocation To Awe Abubakar Ahmed Sabo, a village head of Loko town in Nasarawa State has explained why the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi, was relocated from Loko to Awe after spending one night. Sabo who spoke on the Hausa service of the BBC said the former Emir was too big to stay in a village like his which, according to him, lacks social amenities that would make his stay comfortable. He said, ”Emir (Sanusi) is too big for this village. What I mean is that Emir Sanusi is a high ranking personality. He is supposed to be under air conditioner, but we don’t have electricity to give him that. ”We received him very well, but with mix feelings. We were sad because of what happened to him because when your fellow human being is in this kind of situation, you are expected to be with him in that situation, but, we were happy that, our village came to limelight; that, of all the cities in Nigeria, it was Loko that was chosen for him to come to.” On their conversation, the village head of Loko disclosed that, Sanusi advised them (traditional rulers) to know the way to relate with politicians. ”He advised that we should know the way to relate with politicians, because there is nothing that brought this dethronement except politics”, he stated. el-Rufai Gives Sanusi Second Appointment Barely 24 hours after appointing him as vice chairman of Kaduna State Investment and Promotion Agency (KADIPA), Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, yesterday named dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi, as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University (KASU). A statement from the governor’s office noted that Sanusi succeeds the pioneer Chancellor, His Highness, Malam Tagwai Sambo, the Chief of Moro’a, who was appointed in 2005. “In public life, His Highness has demonstrated a strong commitment to education”, the statement signed by Mr Muyiwa Adekeye, special adviser on media and communication the governor noted. Adekeye further said, “Kaduna State Government has no doubt that as Chancellor, His Highness Muhammadu Sanusi, would provide symbolic and substantive leadership in raising the profile of KASU as an emerging centre of learning on the national and global level. “The appointment of the new chancellor comes at an exciting moment for KASU which is transiting to a multicampus structure with presence across the state.” The statement also said Governor el-Rufai conveyed the profound appreciation of the state government to Malam Tagwai Sambo for the long years of distinguished service to KASU and the state.  Sanusi’s Wife, Children Arrives Awe Meanwhile, the family of the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi, yesterday arrived Awe where he is currently taking asylum. Our correspondent reports that one of Sanusi’s wives arrived Awe by 11:15 am with three of the deposed Emir’s children. She arrived in a white Infiniti SUV with tinted glasses and was escorted by mobile policemen and officers of the Department of State Security who were conveyed in two Toyota Hilux vans with Kaduna State government number plates. LEADERSHIP gathered that the Emir of Awe, Alhaji Umar Isa Abubakar; Emir of Azara, Dr Kabir Musa Ibrahim and chairman of Awe local government area, Alhaji Umar Da-Akano, had been on ground taking good care of the deposed Emir since his arrival on Tuesday. It was also gathered that the building is being guarded by no fewer than 30 heavily armed security personnel.