HRH Abdullahi B. Mamman is a retired Major General, the current Etsu Nyaba Chiefdom in Niger State and chairman, Board of Trustees of the Global Initiative for Leadership Success (GILS). He was a member of the defunct Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC) and erstwhile Minister of Internal Affairs. In this interview with BODE GBADEBO, the soldier-turned-traditional ruler reveals the readiness of GILS to convene a continental security summit as a way of solving the nation’s security challenges, among other issues. How would you describe the security situation in the country today? If what is happening in terms of comments and concerns displayed by the generality of Nigerians, the security situation in the country should be of concern to all well-meaning Nigerians. The reason being that although efforts have been made to see a considerable reduction in the insecurity instances that we have been confronted with, it will appear that something somewhere is not helping our cause and rather than getting to the very end of the security situation, it appears to some of us that it is resurfacing when the opposite should be the case. So, has the current administration done enough in the fight against insurgency? I want to base my answer on that question based on what I used to know about Nigeria’s preparedness prior to the arrival of President Muhammadu Buhari on the scene. As we have said repeatedly, it is true that we are least prepared for the situation we find ourselves, but be that as it may, when you’re confronted with a situation, you must fight it with whatever is available to you at that time. So the question is, do we have what it takes to fight the insecurity or do we just have to go in there with whatever is available? We may not have enough but of course, you are aware that the President has been supporting our Armed Forces and other paramilitary agencies to fight this protracted war. Funds are being made available and indeed we are purchasing requisite arms and ammunition but it does not end there. There is a need for improved security spending and again, looking at the possibility of increasing capacity and required strength to fight. The security chiefs are doing their best considering what is available to them to fight. However, it would be necessary for government to sit and examine or reappraise what they have done so far in terms of fighting the insecurity and so many other issues to point at the direction for the fight going forward. Reassessing the situation is therefore very important to know what has been responsible for the relapse. But from my observation, however, we have to reexamine the collaboration among our fighting forces, the nature and assessment of our intelligence, manpower and our equipment, which could be playing strong roles and responsible for the resurgence of the security problems that we are confronted with. Also, we need to look at ourselves as Nigerians because I want to believe that we the citizens haven’t helped matters. The President raised a poser when he visited Maiduguri recently that, ‘how do you expect insecurity to end when the people of that region are harbouring strangers who they do not know properly.’ There was a time in this country when traditional rulers knew people who lived in their domains by their names and faces but this time around, anybody can just come and sit down. Yes, I’m in my late 70s and I can tell you that it’s unusual to accommodate a visitor in your area without properly profiling such persons to understand who they are and their mission in the community. So, as far as the military and security people may have their own parts to play, I want to state that we Nigerians have also not helped matters because security is everyone’s business. More than that, I want to believe that there are other issues underground that we have not quite comprehended which we must make every effort to unravel. What is your take on the establishment of some security outfits across the country by state governments and groups. Is Nigeria ripe for this? Nigeria copies and sometimes we copy blindly from other countries. We have imported the American democracy and want to do a wholesale of the system without finding out if we have reached the stage of America to be able to practise what they practise, which is still not perfect even over there. State policing for instance is fine, but only when it won’t be used against opponents. What guaranty do we have that if we have the state police, they will stick to the rules of local policing? A typical example is when Boko Haram appeared on the skies of Nigeria, the north-east introduced what it called the Civilian Joint Task Force and when it came, it was wonderful. They were reporting issues of intelligence interest to the fighting forces but right now that notion has changed. Other people who now have access to the Civilian JTF are commandeering it to serve their personal interests. I am not a prophet of doom but my fear for the new security apparatuses in the various regions of the country is that as time goes on and politics heats up, they could be used as political instruments but if the genuine reason for having Amotekun and the likes is to help curb insecurity, there must be guidelines which are acceptable by the federal government. So, you are not in support of the replacement of the service chiefs as being clamoured for in some quarters? Again, President Buhari as the commander in chief has the prerogative to appoint these service chiefs which he has done; and I want to quote him as at when he was appointing them; he said, ‘I did not know you from Adam but it was your performance that has qualified you as service chiefs today.’ Be it as it may, I want to share an experience from my experience in the Army. You post somebody to a command at best for four years but I’m not saying it’s not renewable, mostly under certain conditions, that may warrant it to be done and the years have strategic mapped out plans or guidelines ranging from detecting the issues to the improvement of the capabilities of your service to rounding off on your duty. The tenure could be renewed if it is found that you were prepared for the unforeseen within your tenure. When did the people who are calling for the removal of the service chiefs become law enforcement agencies to dictate for the President who must stay or go? The President is the one receiving intelligence and reports from his Service Chiefs and believe me, if he feels they are not performing, no one would tell him before replacing them. So, if he’s not acceding to calls to sack them, we must understand that he then know what we do not know. My religious persuasion teaches that you should not condemn your leaders because nobody is above mistakes. It is a two way thing. The President owes us an obligation to rule us justly and fairly and to provide what is humanly possible for the people and to satisfy our needs. So it is better to pray for them to guide us well and advise them on the best way to go but not to dictate issues for them. That is why my organisation, the Global Initiative for Leadership Sustainability, GILS, comes in. We observed that something is wrong somewhere and cannot sit back in my office alone and get answers to those things that we think are not normal, mostly in the area of security, as such we brought up an innovation like dialogue through which there can be contributions; we’re creating a forum so that people can offer their advice and innovations to contain the slide into diminishing return. It is a very difficult situation and that is why we consider it a necessity at this time for the sake of our country and to realize the best intentions of the President to guarantee a safe nation for all of us. Your group announced plans to organise a continental security summit last year and it was later postponed. Nothing has happened since then. Why? We are still on course because that summit is necessary both to Nigeria and Africa at large. We wrote and saw Mr. President in September 2019 and he expressed so much support and confidence in the conference by saying to our delegation led by me: ‘Your Royal Majesty, I know what you are capable of because I know that you have critically thought about it (the summit) before you decided to venture into this initiative and I want to believe that you cannot set yourself on an objective you cannot achieve. Therefore, you will hear from us as soon as possible’. Having gone this far, it is only logical to wait for the President to signal to us a date considering his words and endorsement. You know, he is a man of his words, I want to believe that his very tight schedule could be playing a role in why we have not been able to get a date but as soon as we have that, I can assure you that everyone, including the security agencies and envoys from across the African continent are all looking up to the President for that conference. So, I assure you that the plan is ongoing and because other several African countries are involved, we must make sure that we have the president’s whistling us to commence. What are the benefits to expect from the summit when it is finally ready? A lot! From questions of whether we have the right Armed Forces that can fight insurgency, the machinery for gathering intelligence against the operations of insurgents which I focused on during our meeting with Mr. President and how the situation can be improved which will hurt the resurgence of insurgency in greater strength. Most of the insurgents even use more sophisticated weapons than our troops which must be addressed. So, we must know the root cause of what has been troubling us lest we bring our leaders into ridicule. Also, Nigeria leads the multinational JTF which is headquartered in N’Djamena, we are also leading the ECOWAS Standby Force, the epicentre for Africa’s leadership and the president is also the anti-corruption ambassador on the international scene. We have also expanded the scope of the summit to include states. States are going to be there because of the criminalities such as the militancy in the south-east, banditry in the north-west, insurgency in the north-east, herders/farmers clashes in the north-central and north-west, kidnappings and so on and the traditional rulers who are domiciled in those areas will all be involved because the summit will be comprehensive. Another vital point is that Nigerians do not know that it’s no longer business as usual. We can recall that the immediate past National Security Adviser was detained to account for over $2 billion meant for arms purchase but the money, as we have discovered was diverted for political use and today, these same politicians are blaming the security chiefs, meanwhile most chaos in this country were the creations of the political class from the past. So, we have about 14 topics that will be intellectually discussed by professionals in the field at that summit where inter-agency brotherliness, collaboration and direction as well as practical innovations across the continent would be explored to resolve the challenges.