As more cases of the Covid-19 pandemic are being discovered in Nigeria, financial institutions in the country have begun taking steps in line with business continuity plan in the event that the novel Coronavirus spreads beyond the current level and there is lockdown in the country. Lagos which is the hub of business activities in the country has recorded up to 12 cases and has shut down schools, clubs and forbade any gathering that would have up to 50 people in one place at the same time. The same steps had also been taken across other states with suspected cases. To mitigate the effects on their businesses and also ensure that staff are not exposed to risks of contracting the virus, some bank executives who spoke with Leadership said their management are taking proactive steps. One of the steps being taken include reducing the number of staff that come to the office with those whose jobs could be done at home being told to work from home while some others would have to rotate the days they would be in the office. Also, banks are encouraging their customers to make use of electronic channels as means of payment so as to limit the hand to hand contact that cash transactions require in a bid to curb the spread of the virus. Speaking on the measure taken by First Bank of Nigeria Limited, to control the spread of the COVID – 19 pandemic, the bank’s Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Folake Ani-Mumuney, said “embedded in our corporate strategy is business continuity management that ensures the delivery of products, services and initiatives to our stakeholders and enabling the economy in the long-term with minimal impact. “Therefore, we have employed necessary measures to keep our employees, customers and the general public safe-guarded and sensitised on preventive steps to flatten the curve at the fastest possible rate. “These include the deployment of temperature measuring tools; hand sanitisers; face masks and adopting social distancing including utilising virtual meetings. We have also cancelled owned and partnered planned events in the interim; suspended staff travels and have put measures in place to identify and communicate to staff who are arriving from affected countries to self-quarantine following the established protocols by the World Health Organisation and the government. “In addition, we have been amplifying all necessary official information from relevant health bodies and partners such as encouraging everyone to adhere to good hygiene practices which comprise regular cleaning of all surface areas – for example, tables, door handles – with disinfectants, consistent washing of hands as well as avoiding close contact with people and staying away from crowded environment.” Encouraging the use of cashless transactions, Ani-Mumuney said, “We implore all our customers to embrace cashless transactions across our self-service platforms like FirstMobile, WhatsApp Banking, First Online for their needs like funds transfers, various bill payments, credit and internet data recharge and much more as well as card banking services to purchase goods and services from trustworthy merchants all over the world on the internet. In need of quick loans, these self-service platforms are also designed to meet their immediate needs through our FirstAdvance service.” 