A United States of America based Nigerian and a chieftain of the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) Chris Emejuru, has stressed the need for foreign direct investment in the power sector, if the federal government is serious about solving the nation’s power challenges. He also canvassed for formal meetings with relevant key players in the power sector, saying that adoption and deployment information communication technology among these players, will prevent fraud. In a statement released to journalists, Emejuru further stated that if elected President in 2023, he will scrutinize the bottlenecks within industry even though admitted that the industry was complicated and needed to be taken seriously. “Currently there are bottlenecks that I will scrutinize but the quality of stakeholders who work in an understandably complicated environment need to be taken seriously with license removal being the last resort. “Formal meetings with all relevant participants in the power sector need to be established with one issue in focus. That is prevention of fraud through Information Communication Technology. Along with Information Technology there should be checks and balances to make sure all stakeholders are law abiding, and that is how you fight corruption in the Power Sector (or any sector). “Prevention creates the desired result in any industry and is the cornerstone of building a robust market as well as society. “There should be standards in terms of infrastructure within the Power Sector. From Generation of Power, to the ways of Transmission, to Distribution of meters, each should meet the satisfaction of what is stipulated in the EPSRA (2005) or remain obsolete (destroyed). “Everything should be centered around the customer. They are the reason for the Growth and Sustainability of the Power Sector and every Nigerian citizen who benefits deserves the best. Therefore appropriate Channels need to be created for customers satisfaction or complaints. “Foreign Direct Investment is critical to success in the Power Sector. Local establishment is as well. Both should receive the benefits as well as consequences as determined by the rules. With understanding and cooperation, all stakeholders will benefit. “Finally, for the sake of our Environment, for the sake of Nigeria and the World, alternative energy sources need to be established. That can only come through the creation of Policies and Laws that will positively affect our economy and the way we live our lives.” the statement said.