The World Health Organisation said on Tuesday that the U.S. could become the global epicentre of the coronavirus pandemic, which finally forced reluctant organisers to postpone the Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympics. Britain joined the ranks of countries in lock down to try to hold back the virus, and data showed business activity collapsing from Australia, Japan and Western Europe at a record pace in March, with the U.S. showing expected to be just as dire. “The coronavirus outbreak represents a major external shock to the macro outlook, akin to a large-scale natural disaster,’’ analysts at BlackRock Investment Institute said. But amid the gathering gloom, the Chinese province of Hubei, where the virus was first identified in December, said it would lift travel restrictions on people leaving the region as the epidemic eases there. Confirmed coronavirus cases around the world exceeded 377,000 across 194 countries and territories as of early Tuesday, more than 16,500 of them fatal. In Geneva, WHO spokeswoman Margaret Harris said that there had been a “very large acceleration” in infections in the U.S. Over the previous 24 hours, 85 per cent of new cases were in Europe and the U.S., and of those, 40 per cent were in the U.S. As of Monday, the virus had infected more than 42,000 people there, killing at least 559. Asked whether the U.S. could become the new epicentre, Harris said: “We are now seeing a very large acceleration in cases in the U.S. So it does have that potential.” Some U.S. state and local officials have decried a lack of coordinated federal action, saying that having localities act on their own has put them in competition for supplies. President Donald Trump acknowledged the difficulty. “The World market for face masks and ventilators is Crazy. We are helping the states to get equipment, but it is not easy,” he tweeted. Of the top 10 countries by case numbers, Italy has reported the highest fatality rate, at around 10 per cent, which at least partly reflects its older population. The fatality rate globally – the ratio of deaths to confirmed infections – is around 4.3 per cent, though national figures can vary widely according to how much testing is done. (Reuters/NAN) 