For many years Nigeria has largely depended on importation of fertiliser because of low production which has depleted foreign reserve. CHIKA IZUORA, in this write up evaluates impact of the private sector intervention in the sector that is transforming the country into becoming a net exporter of fertiliser. According to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Nigeria Survey, nitrogen deficiency is severe in more than 80 per cent of the land in Nigeria with nitrogen content below 0.1 per cent more than 75 per cent of the land, is in serious phosphorus deficiency, phosphorus content below 10mg / kilogram. The survey further revealed that more than 60 per cent of the land is in moderate or severe potassium deficiency (potassium content below 25 mlg / kg), and can be said to be largely barren. Due to high prices, the annual application amount of fertiliser is only 1 million tons (of total various fertiliser), only an average of more than 30 kilograms per hectare, which is well below China’s farmland fertiliser usage. Therefore, Nigeria has great potentials in chemical and organic fertiliser consumption and usage. In Nigeria, it is 20kg/hectare, ha, of fertiliser usage on the average, which lags behind some countries in Africa, such as South Africa and Egypt. The average fertiliser usage is 100kg/hectare. However, the most common usage rate is 200kg/ha and as is known to all, fertiliser usage is related to crop growth. To apply proper fertiliser accelerates their growth and enables higher production. As a result of low production in Nigeria, fertiliser is imported and this over dependence on imported fertiliser has not only resulted in drain on foreign reserves, but led to more demands and high fertiliser price, and largely unaffordable to farmers. Data showed that fertiliser production in Nigeria has been increased from 10kg/ha in 2006 to 17.8 kg/ha in 2014 , compared to production which was 1086.4 per cent in 2010. In 2013, the proportion was 342.6 per cent. There were two major fertiliser production manufacturers, the Federal Super Phosphate Fertilizer Company (FSFC) set up in 1976 and the National Fertilizer Company of Nigeria (NAFCON) set up in 1988 for the production of urea. But as a result of poor management, the two companies became comatose for over 10 years. At first, the designed capability in the two Nigeria fertiliser plants was one million tons per year. All attempts to turn them around have failed and government was frustrated into selling them to private entrepreneurs. More than 30 fertiliser companies were established with different production capacity in different states in Nigeria. The main fertiliser type in Nigeria is urea and phosphate compound fertiliser. And there is NPK compound fertiliser and blend fertiliser, like triple 15-15-15, 20-10-10, 10-20-10, etc. According to different kinds of crop needs, the fertiliser type may be different. The fertiliser production in Nigeria is low in the past, which leads to high fertiliser importation. First, the seasonal lack of fertiliser supply gives rise to high fertiliser price, and then farmers have difficulty in purchasing suitable fertilisers for their use. In addition, high fertiliser price is another factor that causes low fertiliser usage. Even though there are some subsidies for fertiliser, fertiliser price is still high because of excessive intermediate link and official corruption. As for fertiliser quality, it has been identified to be low, prompting the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to issue a new Draft Fertilizer Bill in 2015, aiming to increase fertiliser quality, fertiliser production technology and inspection and management. New Policy Direction In 2001, New Agricultural Policy Thrust was issued and in 2006, the National Fertilizer Policy for Nigeria was adopted, including fertiliser production policy, domestic marketing policy, international trade policy, quality control policy, environmental policy, etc. The policy aims to attain the objective of facilitating farmers’ timely access to adequate quantity and quality fertilisers at competitive and affordable prices. The policy provides guidance on government’s actions to promote the fertiliser industry and agricultural development. However, some principles were neglected, especially for fertiliser making machine usage. It was observed that low fertiliser usage on soil in Nigeria is not just related to insufficient supply but huge demand, farmers’ low income, high fertiliser retail prices and limited fertiliser manufacturers.  Cost Implications Cost of fertiliser in Nigeria is divided into two components, namely the international cost and domestic cost. Fertiliser pricing in domestic fertiliser market are negotiated by government and fertiliser suppliers and importers and fertiliser is sold to 36 states according to negotiated price. Also, the fertiliser price is a little different based on fertiliser type and size. And the final fertiliser price that farmers buy the product, is set up by government and suppliers. And when setting price, the government, on behalf of local farmers and organisations, are in dominant position during negotiation. Nigeria has great fertiliser market potential and because there is urgent need for increasing food and plants production, farmers hold great expectations of cheap but high quality fertiliser. In recent years, as the pace of fertiliser plants construction accelerates in Nigeria, several fertiliser plants were getting investments, including natural gas industrial park for nitrogen production, Indorama’s fertiliser plant starting operation, Morocco opening fertiliser factory, etc. On the other hand, organic fertiliser production line construction in Nigeria is also accelerated.  Changing The Narrative With Dangote Fertiliser Dangote Fertiliser Limited is just one investment that launched Nigeria into fertiliser production and export space. From being a net importer, Dangote is about changing the narrative and turning Nigeria, once an import- dependent country to a major exporter of fertiliser with an attendant job creation and foreign exchange earnings. Few weeks ago, the plant begun countdown to the inauguration of the $2 billion Granulated Urea Fertiliser complex located in the Dangote Free Zone. With a capacity of 3 million tonnes per annum, the plant has been classified as the biggest project in the entire fertiliser industry history in the world. Siapem of Italy is the engineering, procurement and supervision (EP) contractor for the project, while Tata Consulting Engineers, India, is the project management consultants (PMC) for the project.   At this time, several critical sections of the plant are going through various stages of pre-commissioning and test-run. Virtually all the section of the plant such as central control room, ammonia and urea bulk storage, cooling tower, power generator plant, granulation plant, have all been completed and are going through pre-testing.  Strategic Partnerships Already, Dangote Fertiliser has started receiving gas supply from the Nigerian Gas Company and Chevron Nigeria Limited, under the Gas Sale and Purchase Agreement (GSPA) to supply 70 million standard cubic feet per day (Scf/d) of natural gas to Dangote Fertiliser Limited. The project, which would create thousands of direct and indirect jobs in construction and related fields, would provide a major boost to the agriculture sector, by significantly reducing the importation of fertiliser in Nigeria and ultimately removing the need for imports when the plant is in full production. Group executive director, Strategy, Portfolio Development & Capital Projects, Dangote Industries Limited, Devakumar Edwin, said Nigeria would be able to save $0.5billion from import substitution and provide $0.4 billion from exports of products from the fertiliser plant. “Thus, the supply of fertiliser from the plant, will be enough for the Nigerian market and neighbouring countries. “I am happy that by the time our plant is fully commissioned, the country will become self-sufficient in fertiliser production and even have the capacity to export the products to other African countries. “Right now, farmers are forced to utilise whatever fertiliser that is available as they have no choice, but we need to know that the fertiliser that will work in one state may not be suitable in another state, as they may not have the same soil type and composition. The same fertiliser you use for sorghum may not be the fertiliser you will use for sugar cane.” He stated that the Dangote fertiliser project, which is estimated to gulp $2billion is the largest granulated urea fertiliser complex to emerge in the entire fertiliser industry history in the world, with its three million tonnes per annum capacity. He pointed out that the fertiliser complex, which is sited on 500 hectares of land, has the capacity to expand as it is only occupying a small fraction of the allotted portion. Edwin added, “The management of the complex are confident that the fertiliser business will deliver reasonable profit to the company, and its shareholders as it is projected that population growth and the need for food production would jack up the consumption of urea fertiliser beginning from 2020 when production would have commenced in earnest. “The current consumption of urea estimated at a dismal 700,000 tonnes per annum by Nigerian farmers, is said to be due to very poor usage and is believed to be the cause of poor product yield, which threatens food security in the country. “By 2020, Nigerian population is projected to increase to about 207 million which would lead to increased food production. Estimates point out that around five million tonnes of fertilisers are required per year in Nigeria in the next five to seven years bifurcated into 3.5 million tonnes  of urea and 1.5 million tonnes of NPK, while current production levels in Nigeria are at 1.6 million tonnes  by 2019.”  $2.5bn Revenue From Urea Exports During the inspection of the facility last weekend by the governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Godwin Emefiele, president of Dangote Group, Mr. Aliko Dangote, said the plant would make Nigeria the only urea-exporting country in Sub-Saharan Africa, stressing that the fertiliser and petrochemical plants were capable of generating $2.5 billion annually. According to him, the amount was almost 10 per cent of what Nigeria is getting from home remittances, which is one of the highest in the world. Dangote also noted that on completion, the refinery would make Nigeria the largest exporter of petroleum products in Africa. ”One of the reasons CBN is supporting us is that by the time we become operational, we will not only be creating jobs, but we will reduce the outflow of foreign exchange. “This will not happen only in petroleum products, but also in petrochemicals and fertilisers. We will be one of the highest foreign exchange-generating companies going forward. I must really confess that without the government’s support, there is no way we could have done what we have done so far. “I think we must thank President Muhammadu Buhari for his policies. I thank the CBN governor and management for bringing down interest rates to encourage more entrepreneurs to go into mega projects such as this. “We should not wait for foreign investors to come and develop our economy. It will never happen. So we have to do it ourselves and the only way to do it is to take advantage of the low-interest rates,” he said.  Meeting Local Consumption, Growing The Economy Speaking at the event, Emefiele, who commended the Dangote Group for its commitment towards the completion of the project, said, “The reason that I am here today is to see what is going on on-site. “This time that the economy is going through its own challenges, there is a need for us to diversify the Nigerian economy from oil to other areas, where we have abundant resources. “The 650,000 barrels per day capacity refinery, when operational, will not only satisfy local consumption but will also position Nigeria as a major exporter of petroleum products. “Nigeria is so central, and this refinery will serve almost the whole of Africa, which will lead to cheap cost of freight. This project is so strategically positioned that it will even make the final price of petroleum within Nigeria and even outside Nigeria to be lower than those imported outside the African continent. “We need to encourage other Nigerians and we will keep saying this, Nigerians must stand tall and be ready to come out and support their country. “This is the time for other Nigerians who have been making money in services to come out and join Dangote to help us grow the economy because government alone cannot grow the economy. “We will want to support any Nigerian or foreigner who finds Nigeria as a good investment destination. Whatever we need to do to help you, we will do it.” The CBN governor therefore called on Nigerian entrepreneurs to put their investments into developing the country, saying the apex bank was ready to do anything to protect them. “We need to thank Aliko Dangote for the determination and his large heart. This is not a project that an ordinary person could have ever contemplated. I was here in 2016, 2019 and I’m also here today. “The central bank is interested because there is a need at this time for us to diversify the base of Nigerian economy from oil into other areas, where we can earn revenue. “The fertiliser plant which would be starting  commercially in May 2020, would curb the fertiliser scandals and importation. The president in his wisdom said we would no longer import fertiliser and this fertiliser plant of Dangote is 10 times that of Notore and this plant would generate $1 billion annually. “And the fertiliser would be used for our domestic consumption to help our agriculture transformation and the rest. 75 per cent would be exported and we would earn $750 minimum only from fertilisers,” he said. He urged entrepreneurs to come out and contemplate projects where people can be gainfully employed. “We will support anybody, let them come out and we will put in policies that will protect them for coming out,” he added.