As part of efforts at promoting traditional food culture in Nigeria, Popular Farms and Mills Limited, a Stallion Group Company has staged the first ever indigenous rice cooking competition organised in collaboration with the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, (RIFAN), Kano State chapter. The competition saw more than 100 young enthusiasts competing for the coveted prizes and it brought out the creativity and fun in Nigerian cooking where rice is an integral product. The indigenous rice cooking competition targeted at young chefs between 12-15 years from different local Government areas of Kano and Jigawa states. The event which was held recently was aimed at inculcating the hygienic and traditional cooking habits amongst the youth aged 12- 15 years in this computer generation. In his opening speech at the event, the Chairman RIFAN Kano State chapter, Alhaji Abubakar Aliyu described the cooking competition as a good concept and stressed the importance of indigenous rice production. Alhaji Aliyu stated that “Nigeria must eat what she produces and stop her dependence on imported rice”. At the end of the competition, winners were later presented their different prizes. Aisha Mansur of First Grade International School won the cooking competition and was awarded a cash prize of N150, 000; Rukayya Awaisu of Maitama Sule College came second and was awarded N70000 and Amina Kabir Muhammed of Kuntau Girls College came third and was also awarded N50,000 cash. RIFAN chairman commended Popular Farms and Mills Ltd. for the cash awards and gifts to the winners and for providing rice for the cooks. Managing director of Popular Farms and Mills Limited, Mr. Amit Rai represented by his regional senior team was presented the ‘Outstanding Rice Investor Award’ by the deputy governor, His Excellency Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna for backward integration of the rice value chain and its effective farmer outreach Programme. A total of 16 awardees were recognized for their support to indigenous rice production and consumption in Nigeria, particularly in Kano State. Meanwhile, rice brands from Stallion have been identified as leading consumer brands in the country. Popular Farms and Mills Limited, a Stallion Group Company is equally leading the Nigerian rice revolution by locally producing farm fresh paddy, that is sortexed and milled at state of the art fully automated rice mill at Kano with an annual installed capacity of 150,000 MT.