eTranzact International Plc yesterday said it is set to raise N7 billion fresh funds through its existing shareholders. The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) in a release signed by the head, Listings Regulation, Godstime Iwenekhai to the investing public said, “eTranzact International has through its Stockbroker, Cordros Securities Limited submitted an application to the Exchange for the approval and listing of a rights issue of 4.667 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at N1.50 per share, on the basis of 10 new ordinary shares for every nine ordinary shares held.” The release also noted that the qualification date for the rights issue was on March 25, 2020. It will be recalled that in January 2019 at the Company’s Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM), eTranzact got shareholders’ approval to raise additional capital. Chairman of eTranzact, Mr Wole Abegunde, at the EGM held in Lagos, stated that the decision to raise additional capital became imperative considering the need of the Company to expand its operations, deepen its market share and to remain competitive in the financial technology industry. According to Abegunde, the capital to be raised will be used to upgrade and enhance the Company’s technology infrastructure and network security systems and also to improve on its service delivery. He further stated that the Company will also invest in its Agent Network Expansion Program, Human Resources and Employee Development. Also, speaking the managing director/CEO of eTranzact, Mr Niyi Toluwalope, believed that the injection of additional equity will enable the Company’s management to strategically maintain the Company leading position as a key market leader within the electronic payment industry. The eTranzact boss affirmed that eTranzact will acquire state-of-the-art infrastructure, ensure that the Company retains the best skill set available, achieve a fast response rate, reduce downtime, and expands its service offerings and market reach. Founded in September 2003, eTranzact is Nigeria’s first award-winning, multi-application and multi-channel electronic transaction switching and payment processing platform. It has evolved into a brand with a global reach with operations in Nigeria, Ghana, and South Africa, with expansion inclination to more countries in the world. Since Inception, eTranzact has deployed mobile payment solutions to banks, non-bank financial institutions and was recently granted a license by the CBN to provide Mobile Money services to individuals with a special focus on the unbanked. 