Leader of pan-Yoruba group, Egbe Afenifere Ilosiwaju Yoruba, popularly known as Afenifere, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, has paid glowing tributes to the national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for “his courage, commitment and firmness in the struggle for the return of democracy to Nigeria and its sustenance.”s In a special commendation to Tinubu on the occasion of his 68th birthday, Pa Fasanmi said that the former Lagos State governor had done more than any other for Nigeria’s democracy, describing him as a pillar of strength for the country’s democracy. In a statement he released to the media in Osogbo, Osun State by his media assistant, Temitope Adebayo, the elder statesman also commended Tinubu for nurturing and mentoring other politicians who have become household names in the country. He said: “History would be kind to Asiwaju as his contributions to the rebirth and sustenance of Nigeria’s democracy can never be over-emphasised,” adding that the APC leader deserves accolades for standing strong and firm in ensuring also that an opposition party unseated an incumbent president for the first time in Nigeria’s history. The Afenifere leader said: “In 2003, Bola Tinubu was the last man standing when the opposition fraudulently edged all the progressive governors out of the Southwest except Lagos State where Bola was in control. Today, due to Bola’s efforts, Lagos remains a progressive state, while APC is also controlling the federal government and a larger part of the country.” Pa Fasanmi further stated that “Tinubu has remained firm, resolute and unshaken in the efforts towards the promotion of a democratic polity in the country. He has done very well indeed. “When I was vice chairman of the Alliance Democracy (AD), he was very close to me. I know he fierced opposition and there were criticisms against him. But like him or hate him, he is the only Yoruba man that is right up at the centre to speak for us. Bola is our pillar of strength when we talk about politics in Nigeria,” he said.