The Rivers State government and the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) have set new rule for commercial vehicles operating in the state and their passengers, aimed at controlling the spread of Coronavirus in the state. Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike had at the weekend announced that the state government would take extra measures to ensure the safety of indigenes and residents of the state from the virus. In a communiqué issued at the end of a meeting between the state government, the NURTW and other stakeholders in the transport sector, weekend, it was agreed that the new rules will take effect from Monday, March 23, 2020. The communiqué, which was read by the state Commissioner for Transport, Hon. Sam Soni Ejekwu, states that taxis shall admit or take a total of three passengers while buses will carry a minimum of 10 passengers. The communiqué reads in part: “Everyone is aware of the challenges being faced by the global community around the COVID-19 pandemic. “The government of Rivers State is committed to ensure the health, life and safety of its citizens; particularly as they commute from one part of the state to the other or from our state to other states. “Commencing from Monday the 23rd of March, 2020, all Operators of Commercial Vehicles and Passengers shall comply with the following regulations: All Taxis shall admit or take a total of three passengers namely one person in the front seat and two persons at the passenger sides immediately behind the front seats. “It is an offence to condone, connive or be an overloaded passenger. A person is said to be overloaded if found seated next to the door either in the front section of the vehicle or on the door side for the passenger immediately behind the front seats. “All buses shall admit or convey a total of five passengers for Suzuki buses;10 passengers for 14/18- seater buses. One passenger in the front seat and three passengers per seat row subsequently. Two passengers at the back seat for tricycles and only the rider in the front seat and two passengers on the back seats. “It is an offence to condone, connive or be an overloaded passenger. A person is said to be overloaded if found seated next to the door either in the front section of the vehicle or on the door side for the passenger immediately behind the front seats. “Further, effective from the 23rd of March, 2020, at all Bus Stops and Stations, all commuters and passengers shall maintain regular Queues and orderly lines to avoid needless rough contacts and struggles leading to altercations and spitting or droplets. “All taxis and buses shall keep and restock their vehicles with wipes, tissues and other disposal items for use by passengers to wipe down the car doors and other handles. “These directives shall be supervised, coordinated and enforced by the Road Marshalls of the Ministry of Transport, Rivers State and NURTW officials. Members of the public and the transport operators are enjoined to give the state government their fullest support at this challenging moment of our collective existence. “To ensure compliance, members of the public are enjoined to call these numbers in case of noncompliance by drivers, conductors and passengers.”