The chief of staff to the president, Mallam Abba Kyari, has been in the news lately for acts of commission or omission. JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH, in this report, x-rays the enigma who is said to be one of the most powerful men in the presidency. The office of the chief of staff to the president of Nigeria was created in 1999 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo in a pattern akin to the American presidential system of government. Apparently aware that Nigeria’s democracy is modeled after the United States’ presidential system, Obasanjo appointed former military governor of Benue/Plateau State and former National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Abdullahi Muhammed as his chief of staff. But as an absolute exception from what Obasanjo had put in place, his successor, the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, did not appoint a Chief of Staff during his three-year stint as president. However, when President Goodluck Jonathan assumed power in May 2010, he appointed Chief Mike Aiyegbeni Oghiadomhe as his chief of staff. Of all the persons that have occupied the office of chief of staff since Obsanjo created that office in Aso Rock, the current one, Mallam Abba Kyari, is arguably the most popular since the return of democracy in 1999. Before the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari as president in 2015, little was known of Kyari. The current chief of staff is regarded as one of the driving forces of the Buhari administration. During the inauguration of his cabinet, President Buhari directed the incoming ministers to channel all requests for meetings with him through his chief of staff. Some have even tended to describe Kyari as the de facto president. This explains why eyebrows were raised when recently, in a leaked memo the chief of staff was accused of holding meetings with the Service Chiefs when he is not constitutionally empowered to do so. However in spite of all the allegations against the chief of staff, he has maintained a dignified silence and has been carrying out his assignment unperturbed. According to political analysts, it is natural that Abba Kyari will be in the eye of the storm because of his unflinching loyalty to President Buhari. The thinking is that in line with his boss’ anti-corruption stance, he has been blocking loopholes and leakages through which public funds are being stolen. This, understandably, will make him unpopular, given the thieving nature of civil servants and public office holders in the country. Instructively, the roles and responsibilities of the chief of staff and the method of communication and arranging meetings between cabinet members and the president in Nigeria, are based on the US model where the same system operates. Kyari’s role is to act as the head of the presidential administration in Aso Rock, to be an adviser to the president on any and all matters, to be the line manager for all staff at Aso Rock, and to manage appointments and scheduling for the president. It is a primary function of a chief of staff, which may vary according to the needs and desires of each president, to supervise key State House staff, control access to the office and the person of the president and manage communications and information flow, which might include that which binds the relationship with the two other arms of government. Kyari, a legal luminary, Banker and seasoned technocrat, is a man who believes in honesty integrity and justice. Out of unwavering courage, Kyari has deliberately fought the bad political parasites bent on truncating the fight against corruption and insecurity. He has been maligned without facts because his traducers are desperate to scandalize and push him out so that they will have their way in committing crimes against the Nigerian state. Needless to re-emphasise that transparency among Nigerians is the number one policy of President Buhari, and Kyari as the gatekeeper in the seat of power has been doing his utmost best to promote and ensure the policies of government succeed. From observation throughout the country, it has been discovered that the kyari style of loyalty to the president is the best Nigeria needs now. There are keen observers who contend strongly that series of information have been falsified in order to build negative press against Kyari. The ultimate aim of this, according to them, is to tarnish his proven loyalty to the president and Commander-in-Chief. This set of analysts aver that the propagandas being traded on Kyari are done by detractors whose mission is to pull him down at all cost. Their angst is that they cannot fit into Abba Kyari’s administrative ideology. The argument for Kyari by his admirers is that, compared to standard best practices around the world, it is evidently clear in his service to his boss and humanity that he is among the best chiefs of staff in the world. The idea is that what that office entails is absolute loyalty to the president whose biddings the chief of staff is hired to do. Three qualities that have helped Kyari in the discharge of his duties excellently are that he is highly trustworthy and able to build trust with others in his position as a gatekeeper to President Buhari. Trust is hard earned and easily lost. Trust is built by doing what you say and saying what you do. Trust is the chief of staff being the “steady rudder” in a sea of chaos. The CoS as a trust builder is able to convey in a positive and assuring manner the president’s position/action at any given moment. The most important trust is between the CoS and the president. In fact, that trust-relationship must be so strong that it is known throughout the country. Another key quality that stands Kyari out is judgment. It is key to a successful CoS appointment. Much of the work of the CoS involves independently working the gap between the president and the entire citizenry of the country. Given the speed of leadership and management in Nigeria today, there would be moments that the CoS will have to make a decision and act with utmost overriding interest in mind. Again, the most important of Kyari’s attributes that makes him succeed as the chief of staff is ‘disposition.’ Disposition is the most crucial and challenging quality, in that the CoS often speaks for the president even though he is not the president.  The chief of staff is like an extension of the president. The CoS is working on behalf of the president. Therefore, the CoS must have an extraordinary understanding of the president, so that talking and working with the CoS is an effective extension of working with the president. Kyari has been able to provide a buffer between President Buhari and the presidential reporting system. The chief of staff generally works behind the scenes to solve problems, mediate disputes, and deal with issues before they are brought to the chief executive of the country. Often, chiefs of staff act as a most reliable confidante and advisor to the president, acting as a sounding board for ideas. Ultimately the actual duties depend on the position and the people involved. The aforementioned features of some of the roles and responsibilities of a chief of staff to the president, clearly indicates that it is a position expected to be occupied by a unique personality, who is flexible, well versed and an expert in local and international relations. All these, Kyari has been able to apply to keep the Buhari presidency going. 