A coalition of human rights groups and non-governmental organisation under the auspices of Nigeria Civil Society Group (NCSG), has called on the federal government and National Assembly, to as a matter of urgency to stop the unwholesome attack perpetrated against Nigeria cable businesses in the country. It would be recalled that the federal government through the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed has prohibited exclusive rights in broadcasting sporting events in the country. Alhaji Mohammed said that, ‘’this regulation prevents the misuse of monopoly or market power or anti-competitive and unfair practices by a foreign or local broadcaster to suppress other local broadcasters in the television and radio markets.’’ Speaking during a press conference after a one-day peaceful procession in Abuja, by the group, the chancellor, International Society for Social Justice and Human Rights (ISSJHR), Dr Jackson Omenazu alleged that the South African company, MultiChoice Nigeria Ltd owners or DSTV is harassing cable television in Nigeria with the instrumentality of the EFCC, the Nigerian Police and the Nigerian Copy Rights Commission. Omenazu said the “internet and the press are now awash with the news of the invasion of the Port Harcourt, Rivers State office/operational bases/premises of Communication Trends Limited (CTL), Multimesh Communications Limited (operators of CANTV) and Metrodigitalon Saturday, 5 October, 2019 by the EFCC on the complaint of the said South African Company MultiChoice Nigeria Ltåd owners of DSTV alleging that these companies are illegally re-broadcasting the English Premiership League matches which are exclusive preserve and monopoly of MultiChoice. “EFCC carried out the same type of raid on Monday, 14 October, 2019 at the Uyo, Akwa Ibom State office of CTL, the only local Pay TV operator there to enable the South African Company Multi Choice Nigeria Ltd owners of DSTV have monopoly even when their services are exorbitant and the local populace cannot afford same. Most people in Akwa Ibom are now left without cable TV.’’ He regretted that owners of these stations were arrested, humiliated and detained by the EFCC and DSS on the complaint on allegation of illegally re-broadcasting the English Premiership League matches, which they claim is the exclusive preserve and monopoly of MultiChoice. ‘’We have monitored these events with keen attention and discovered that it is all about market monopoly by a South African company MultiChoice/DSTV who claim to have exclusive preserve to air all English Premiership League matches to the exclusion of Nigerian companies. ‘’This is preposterous for a South African company, whose county is allegedly killing and destroying the Nigerian businesses in South Africa under the guise of xenophobia,’’ he added.