With the official exit of Britain from the European Union (EU) early this year, there are indications that such development will benefit Nigerians and other immigrants from different parts of the world. This observation was made weekend by a United Kingdom trained immigration lawyer, John Falode, while speaking at a public lecture titled: “Immigration And How To Settle/Work in the UK” organised by the Ojota Development Foundation (ODF) in Lagos. Falode who pointed out, that the move will benefit Nigerians and immigrants from other parts of the world, stated that, before the exit and with Britain as an EU member, Britain didn’t have control over who comes to EU from other parts of the Union. The lawyer therefore, emphasised that with Brexit, there would be a level playing ground for immigrants wishing to migrate to UK. After three years of division, delay and parliamentary deadlock, the United Kingdom had finally left the EU, bringing an end to almost half a century of Britain’s membership of the EU. In his presentation as a guest of honour at the seminar, Falode advised members of the public who are seeking for visas, for either stay or to visit UK, to always do the right things at the right time as presentation of fake documents could cost them the procurement of their visas to the UK. Falode equally warned that, immigrants should not go to the UK without thinking about how to regularise their stay when they get to UK, stressing that, the guiding principle when applying for visas is to be able to establish the fact that you would be able to leave at the end of the visa validity. Speaking further he advised, “Don’t apply for visa with fake documents because that might earn you a ban for 10 years. Embassies are looking for your genuine intention. Doctors, nurses, welders, chefs, cooks are needed in UK. However, I am not in support of brain drain in Nigeria but if your country is not providing the necessary opportunities, you can seek greener pastures elsewhere.” Offering to assist immigrants who wish to migrate to UK legally, the legal expert said, “If you are a member of ODF, I am more than happy giving you free initial consultations. Those in UK who have an association with ODF can get my assistance. We are happy to provide additional guidance based on individual circumstances”. In his presentation, Mr Awosanya who spoke on the second paper titled: “Bridging Security Gaps To Safeguard our Children In Ojota” advised the public to always assist the police in security works as policing has always been the responsibility of everybody, adding that police need information from the society to work effectively. Decrying the state of police in Nigeria, Awosanya said “The primary prayer of every human being is self-actualisation. We should create a police structure that will provide for their children. Police should be giving priority because they are giving their life to other people. We cannot save the life of our people without fixing the police structure. Disclosing that the group is seriously pushing for the police reform Bill, Awosanya said that ODF wants every police station to look like that of a bank and that since the protect the society the society should be able to support the equally. In his remark, president of ODF, Mr Anthony Bola Adelaja said the seminar was put together to enlighten the public in how best they can move their environment forward. According to Adelaja, with about 160 members in Lagos and over 100 members in the United Kingdom, the group is poised to take Ojota to the next level, just as he disclosed that they are planning to build the very first international health centre in Ojota Stating that the group is very important for all in terms of developing Ojota, he said “We want to discourage brain drain; we live in a place where, if we don’t look at ourselves, we will degenerate. I encourage all of you who are not members already to join the group. We are here to make Ojota great again.