…I’m Not In Isolation- Akeredolu As part of measures to further prevent the spread of the deadly Coronavirus , the Ondo State Police Commissioner, Undie Adie has warned that shop owners, who do not deal in essential items like pharmaceutical and food would be arrested if they open shop starting from Thursday. Addressing journalists at the Governor’s Office at Alagbaka, Akure, the state capital on Wednesday Undie said the warning became necessary when he observed that some shop owners didn’t adhere to the directives handed down by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Tuesday Recalled that the government had ordered markets and shop owners to close shop for seven days to check the spread of the deadly coronavirus. Meanwhile, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu declared that he’s not on any form isolation. He enjoined all citizens to ensure they maintain social distance to avoid the deadly coronavirus. The Police Commissioner stated that , “It was observed that the people of the state didn’t substantially obey the governor’s order that called for “the immediate closure of all markets, malls and shops across the State with effect from today, March 24th, 2020. “Under this fresh directive which is for a period of 7 days in the first instance, only the sale of life-saving and sustaining items like food, water and medicines shall be allowed.” According to the Police Commissioner, it was observed that some shop owners who do not deal in pharmaceutical and food items opened shops, particularly in the state capital, Akure. The Police chief said he had a chat with the governor on some observations made and reported to him on the attitudes of the people to the health and safety rules put in place for the people on Coronavirus. He said: “People still open shops. People shopping unnecessary things.The rules must be adhered to. Peoples should shop for essential items, pharmaceutical and food. “Shop owners should ensure no crowd gather in their shops. Those who go out shopping should wait outside if there are over five people inside. The should maintain social distance of one metre among themselves. The Police Commissioner, however, warned that the command would send out personnel to ensure night clubs and social bars are not opened for operations. 