The Zamfara State Government has designated General Hospital, Kasuwar-daji in Kaura-Namoda Local Government Area as Coronavirus (COVID-19) Isolation centre. Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Alhaji Nasiru Magarya announced this at a sensitisation on Coronavirus pandemic at Gusau Central Motor park on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria  (NAN) reports that Gov. Bello Matawalle had appointed Magarya as Chairman of the State Task Force on Control and Prevention of Coronavirus. The 16-man task force was inaugurated on Friday by the governor and has Dr Habib Yelwa, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health as Secretary. Magarya said the committee has the mandate to sensitise and enlighten the general public on the nature of the disease and how to avoid it. He said that the committee was also charged with the responsibility of collaborating with similar groups and agencies in the fight against the disease. The Speaker said the committee will advise the government on humanitarian assistance to reduce the stay at home directive. “Since our inauguration, we met with relevant stakeholders including religious and traditional rulers, Civil Society Organisations, NGOs as well as the media among others. “We have so far visited public places including motor parks, markets among others. “We established sub committees across the 147 wards in the 14 local government areas of the state to carry out sensitisation at the grassroots,” the speaker said. He appealed to people of the state to cooperate with the government, respect and abide by all precautionary measures against the disease. Also, the state Commissioner for Health, Alhaji Yahaya Kanoma said the state had not recorded any case of COVID-19. Kanoma said the government planned to establish three isolation centers across the state, one in each of the three senatorial districts when the need arises. “We have procured 20 Coronavirus thermometer as detectors and distributed to various public places,” the commissioner said. He appealed to people of the state to comply with the proactive measures announced by health experts in order to prevent the disease. Kanoma also called on people of the state to ensure effective hygiene practice and environmental sanitation in order to avoid contracting the disease. He commended the support and cooperation of royal fathers and religious leaders in sensitising residents on the virus.(NAN) 