The Federal High Court in Lagos, yesterday, refused to grant an application filed by a former chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Maurice Iwu, seeking the transfer of his N1.23bn fraud trial from Lagos to Abuja. Trial judge, Justice Nicholas Oweibo, dismissed the application for lacking in merit. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) further claimed that the accused person had, between December 2015 and March 27, 2015, used his company, Bioresources Institute of Nigeria (BION) Limited, whose account with number 1018603119 domiciled in United Bank of Africa (UBA) Plc, to launder the money. The EFCC also alleged that Professor Iwu and a lawyer, Victor Chukwuani retained the sum of N407 million said to be proceed of unlawful act, in Bioresources Institute of Nigeria (BION) Limited’s Account No. 1018603119, domiciled in the United Bank for Africa Plc, The offences according to the EFCC counsel, Rotimi Oyedepo, are contrary to sections 18(a),15(2) (a) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 15 (3) of the same Act. The former INEC boss, however, pleaded not guilty to all the counts. In the application argued by the defendant’s lawyer, Ahmed Raji, SAN, Iwu had told Justice Oweibo that he resides in Abuja, but always travels to Lagos whenever the case comes up. His lawyer submitted: “my Lord, this defendant is over 70 years of age, and he always travels down to Lagos whenever, the case is coming up.” Oyedepo had urged the court to throw out the application, because all the witnesses listed in the proof of evidence, including the bank officials, reside in Lagos and Ibadan. Oyedepo also argued that it was the Lagos Zonal Office of the EFCC that investigated the case. He further maintained that the offence for which the defendant was charged touched on the economic well-being of Nigeria, and such offences can be tried anywhere in Nigeria. In his ruling, Justice Oweibo agreed with Oyedepo, stating that a look at the list of witnesses submitted by the EFCC showed that most of the witnesses were in Lagos, with some retired, hence “justice will be better served for the trial to proceed in Lagos.” The judge then adjourned the matter to April 28 for trial. According to the anti-graft agency, the former INEC chairman committed the offence in the build-up to the 2015 general elections. 