Taking the gaming experience of its customers to a new height, LG Electronics (LG) has staged the grand finale of its OLED TV Gaming Challenge with winners emerged. LG is the first consumer electronics brand to independently launch a gaming campaign-LG OLED Gaming challenge, making it one of the largest e-sports competitions in Nigeria for game lovers. It was initiated in 2018 which marks the first season of the competition for gamers. The challenge has since then turned out to be an annual contest for gamers to show their skills, experience the fantastic features of OLED and battle with one another for a prize- OLED TV. The company thrilled its teeming customers with its newest OLED TVs which offer blazing speed and stunning colour reproduction through NVIDIA G-SYNC.  The grand finale event, which took place at the weekend in Lagos, saw the contestants, winners of the six seasons compete for an OLED65c9 TV and a cash prize of N1 million. General manager, Home Entertainment Division, LG Electronics West Africa, Mr Vanjamin Kim, said, “The initiative is for lovers of video game to demonstrate the beauty and the uniqueness of the ‘depth of black’ in OLED TV, especially when gaming on it. “We intend to have more of this kind of gaming challenge to engage more of our consumers who love gaming. It’s an avenue to reward our customers and promote LG OLED TVs as the best TV for gaming. With exceptional picture quality, low input lag and an ultra-fast response time, LG OLED TVs have already earned a reputation for delivering an optimized gaming performance.” Head of Corporate Marketing, LG Electronics West Africa, Mr Hari Elluru,  also added, “The addition of NVIDIA G-SYNC Compatibility raises the bar once more, guaranteeing even more immersive big-screen PC gaming on the company’s industry-leading 4K OLED models, available in 55 to 77 inch screen sizes. “G-Sync and other VRR technologies help eliminate flicker, tearing or stuttering on displays when used to play games that are built using VRR. “The company’s latest OLED TV models support a variety of popular HDR formats that further elevate the gaming experience.’’ 