The almost 4-year old federal government de-radicalization, rehabilitation and re-integration (DRR) programme for repentant Boko Haram terrorists, without firing a single shot, has spiraled into a new momentum that has set off an unprecedented chain of defections, confusion and commotion within their ranks, depleting its strength to commit further mayhem in the North East where the return of peace, stability and development has been fast-tracked, GEORGE AGBA reports. On February 26, 2020, former Boko Haram members and their wives who had surrendered to troops in Niger Republic were ferried in a military aircraft to Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, by a team led by the coordinator of Operation Safe Corridor (OPSC), Major General Bamidele Shafa. They arrived the state into the waiting hands of the state commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajia Zuwaira Gambo. And shortly after handing over the repentant fighters, Major Gen Shafa, who has successfully supervised the 24-week programme as pioneer coordinator on behalf of the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin, literally seized the opportunity of the event to declare that the OPSC has moved into new gear. On November 22, 2019, the first batch of the 586 surrendered Boko Haram Terrorists BHT/ISWAP ex-combatants in Giwa Barracks, Maiduguri, were transported to the OPSC camp in Mallam Sidi, Gombe in a NAF C-139 flight by a military team led by Maj Gen Shafa who disclosed that over 1,000 ex-combatants surrendering to Operation Lafiya Dole indicated the steady gains by the Armed Forces of Nigeria in winning the war against insurgency in the North East. The DRR programme has inevitably flung open a floodgate of opportunities for the repentant ex-fighters to practically re-order themselves and gather the remaining pieces of their lives using the corridor of opportunity offered by the programme as a safe passage to surrender and be reformed for successful transfer to their respective state governments for resettlement. It is part of the Federal Government’s overall objectives and efforts to end insurgency in the North East. The vision is to de-radicalize, re-habilitate and prepare them for re-integration in their respective communities. And with about 606 currently undergoing the DRR programme at the OPSC Camp in Malam Sidi in Gombe State, Major Gen Shafa is leading stakeholders in the joint multi-agency outfit on a crucial working visit between tomorrow and Wednesday to the Camp where the new Commandant, Brigadier General Musa Ibrahim (mni), a Zuru-born infantry officer, is billed to receive them with international partners such as International Organization on Migration (IOM). Ibrahim succeeded Colonel BMG Martins, who is currently in Harare, Zimbabwe undergoing a National Defence College programme. The working visit is expected to proceed to the Borno State Bulumkutu Rehab Camp in Maiduguri on Thursday and Friday, according to an official notice issued by the pioneer secretary of the OPSC, Princess Yetunde Olobayo, in Abuja at the weekend. The Borno State commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajia Zuwaira Gambo, on behalf of the governor, Prof Babagana Zulum, an engineer, has become a regular company in the past successive visits of the OPSC team to Borno State. The governor is said to have always displayed an unusually deep interest in the DRR programme dating back to his days as the immediate past commissioner for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation under ex-Governor Kashim Ibrahim Shettima during whose tenure the rehab centre was constructed for the repentant ex-fighters. The upcoming visits are part of key decisions reached at a stakeholders’ meeting which took place on March 5, 2020 in the CDS’ Conference Room at the Defence Headquarters Complex in Area 8, Abuja. It was declared open by the CDS who was represented with Maj Gen Shafa presiding. The first stakeholders’ meeting was held at the same venue in the DHQ on January 16, 2018 and was personally chaired by the CDS, General AG Olonisakin who doubles as chairman of the 12-member OPSC National Committee. It was to principally set the tone for the reintegration of 95 rehabilitated ex-fighters otherwise referred to as clients in the OPSC standard operating parlance. It was attended by representatives of MDAs, implementation partners and other stakeholders. The latest well-attended meeting deliberated on modalities for transferring 606 clients currently undergoing DRR in Gombe and billed for graduation on Saturday, June 27, 2020. Some stakeholders in attendance who represented governors of Adamawa, Borno, Yobe, Gombe, Kebbi, Plateau, Jigawa and Zamfara States included Hajia Zuwaira Gambo from Borno State, Bashir Ahmed from Adamawa State, Batari M. Dauda, Gombe State Commissioner of Internal Security and Ethical Orientation, Malam Rabiu, a former Secretary to State Government (SSG) now Special Adviser to Kebbi State Governor on Security. Representatives of other stakeholders also in attendance were some local and international implementation partners such as the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), the United Nations International Organization on Migration (IOC) and the United Nations Children’s Education Fund (UNICEF) apart from 38 MDAs comprising the Office of the NSA, DIA, DSS, Police, the new Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Disaster Affairs, Federal Ministry of Justice, NOA, NEMA, NDLEA, NDE, Immigration, NYSC, Nigerian Correctional Service, Civil Defence Corps, NDLEA, the new North East Development Commission, NIMC, among others. Since inception, 3 batches totaling 280 ex-Boko Haram fighters including 2 Chadians have successfully undergone the 24-week DRR programme at the OPSC Camp. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that the 606 number of clients currently in the Camp is the largest figure ever accommodated in the Camp, a development that is said to have been made easier and more convenient for the operators by the massive face-lift and expansion facilities provided by the IOC and other partners owing to the success of the multi-stakeholder approach being executed to collectively bring about peace in North East Nigeria and the Lake Chad Basin Region. The repentant insurgents are now the new gospel carriers to those still hiding in the bush with the message that there is actually better life outside the bush if the remorse and enthusiasm they displayed throughout their 52-week long programme in the camp are anything to go by. The DRR initiative was fallout of a September 2015 National Security Council meeting which endorsed the initiative as a way of facilitating safe passage for willing insurgents. And since its inception, it has been remarkably impactful. It is a joint multi-national humanitarian operation being executed in line with international humanitarian and human rights laws and the Nigerian constitution. Experts believe that contemporary conflict resolution theories have proved that soft non-military strategies such as the safe corridor are far more effective and efficacious than wars and weapons deployment especially in breaking the ranks and the fighting will of Boko Haram. They said that the current DRR initiative has significantly boosted the success of Federal Government’s counter-terrorism operations in the North East. Weighing in, the CDS, General Olonisakin, was quoted recently in a maiden December 2019 edition of THE CLIENT, a quarterly newsletter of the OPSC, as describing the DRR in Gombe as the first national joint multi-agency platform of its kind that has recorded high networth image and status being copied by over 10 countries so far, especially the neighbouring Chad, Cameroon and Niger, to address similar insurgency challenges. Olanisakin said, “There are gradual recognition, acceptance and buy-in for the DRR by a greater majority of Nigerians, state governments especially the people of the North East. OPSC is a proof of Nigeria’s commitment to national, regional and global peace, security and order by attaining a national outlook while bringing positive dynamics in the counter-terrorism operations in the North East. “It has received the active participation of the Armed Forces, other security agencies, selected Ministries, Departments and Agencies and stakeholders such as the International Organization for Migration and the Center for Democracy for Development, it has been the major key in the success of OPSC”. Also commenting, a civil advocacy group, Concerned Professionals’ Congress (CPC) expressed pleasure that the programme has achieved much in its short time of existence. The Chief Media Strategist of the group, Mr Emeka Nwankpa said, “It is re-assuring that the Chief of Defence, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin and his vibrant team at Operation Safe Corridor led by the tireless Maj Gen Shafa have been able to utilize the de-radicalization programme to bring positive dynamics in the counter-terrorism operations in the North East. “Without firing a single shot to get over 2,000 to renounce their membership of Boko Haram, our Armed Forces have massively shrunk and depleted the ranks of Boko Haram and ISWAP, denying them freedom to take territories at will thereby restoring law and order, and nay, democracy, in the North East. The programme must be sustained in view of its deep content, wide reach and ruthless execution. “These patriotic Nigerians have turned the programme into a robust, viable, effective and practical non-military counter-terrorism offensive now rated beyond Africa as proof of Nigeria’s commitment to global peace, security and order. What is more? Boko Haram’s strength has shrunk incrementally’’, Nwankpa said. “Today, it is good music to the ears that the programme has done very well under its charismatic pioneer Coordinator, Major General BM Shafa and his 375 highly-dedicated staff mobilized from 13 key Ministries, Departments and Agencies”. In 2015, the president raised a national committee chaired by the Chief of Defence Staff, with the governors of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe States; Chief of Army Staff; Chief of Air Staff; Inspector General of Police; a director from Office of the National Security Adviser; director-general of State Security Service; Chief of Defence Intelligence and the director-general of National Emergency Management Agency, as members. The team created fail-safe profiling, monitoring, tracking and tracing devices that make contact between the former insurgents and Boko Haram impossible especially after undergoing the necessary de-radicalization therapies. Besides, they are trained in vocational skills including shoe making, leather works, farming, poultry, welding, tailoring, soap making and cosmetology, barbing and furniture. Other measures taken before they are transferred and enrolled in NDE Skills Acquisition centers to continue training in their respective states and communities include taking an oath of allegiance before a Sharia or High Court Judge to be law-abiding citizens as well as comprehensive medical screening to know their health status. As part of the rehab process, they are exposed to Western Education and art therapy apart from undergoing psychosocial, psychotherapy, psycho-spiritual counseling, drug abuse intervention and other therapies conducted by specialist counselors, clergies, psychologists, social workers, drug rehab specialists, dramatists and interpreters as part of the rehab process. To enhance their health condition and nullify anti-social ideologies of Boko Haram, indoor and outdoor sports and recreation facilities such as football field, volleyball court, table tennis and driveway for jogging are available for cordial interactions between the ex-combatants and Camp officials. As part of the therapies, some friendly matches are organized to further boost their self-esteem. It should be noted that their DNA samples are deposited at the DNA Laboratory of the Defence Headquarters, Abuja just as they are registered on the National Identity Card System and issued National Identity cards with special code after undergoing detailed debriefing by the Camp Intelligence Cell to elicit information to aid their integration process and for other future security purposes. It would be recalled that shortly before the 2019 elections, there were unsubstantiated allegations of espionage in some quarters linking the resurgent Boko Haram attacks in Borno State to the ex-combatants. But independent verification by independent observers described the claims as false and without facts. Also not long ago, there were unconfirmed claims that the Nigerian Army had started recruiting some of the rehabilitated ex-fighters but the OPSC leadership swiftly refuted the claims during a recent working visit to the Minister of the newly-created Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Uwar Farouq. The former Camp Commandant, Colonel Beyidi Martins, had told journalists early last year in Gombe that 260 former insurgents had been treated comprising the pilot set of six who were long detained for their association with the sect. Another batch of 95 who graduated in February 2018 and handed over to their states-Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno and Yobe, are now fully re-integrated and gainfully re-settled. Also, no fewer than 90 minors have been released to UNICEF for onward transmission to their foster parents. A set of 150 who had graduated on November 24, 2018 who were kept at the time in the camp to shield them from attacks in the North East were to be released to their states which have expressed willingness to accept and re-integrate them when the situation improved. Not a few observers believe that with humongous figures of fighters dumping Boko Haram to embrace the DRR as the real deal, it is indeed sunset for the sect and its foreign affiliate, the ISWAP. To enhance their health and boost self-esteem as well as promote cordial interactions in the camp and nullify Boko Haram’s evil ideology in them, friendly games, indoor-outdoor sports and recreation facilities such as football field, volleyball court, table tennis, driveway for jogging are provided. Their DNA samples are deposited at DNA Laboratory of the Defence Headquarters. Part of the water-tight tracking measures is their captured biometrics in the National Identity Card System. They are issued specially-coded identity cards after detailed debriefing by the Camp Intelligence Cell for future re-integration and security purposes. Recently, some allegations of espionage in some quarters linked resurgent Boko Haram attacks to the ex-insurgents but independent verifications showed that the claims lacked facts. Government has executed the DRR with astonishing efficiency based on proven cases where safe corridors have effectively broken the enemy. The 52-week DRR programme was outcome of a National Security Council meeting in September 2015 which discussed Boko Haram’s dislodgement. The option emerged as a safe passage for the repentant insurgents to escape from hiding. It is a joint multi-national humanitarian operation in line with international humanitarian and human rights laws and the Nigerian constitution. So far, 260 former insurgents comprising the pilot six in long detention for associating with the sect have been treated. Another 95 who graduated in February 2018 were transferred to their states-Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno and Yobe fully re-integrated and re-settled. Minors were released to UNICEF for onward transmission to their foster parents. The dynamics of the war against Boko Haram Insurgency in North East Nigeria changed drastically with the coming of the present administration in 2015 due to the purposeful political and military leadership in place. The Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) reclaimed territories hitherto occupied by the terrorists and insurgents. Commenting on the DRR, a Diaspora researcher on Contemporary Conflicts and Resolution Approaches, Dr Steve Mgbemena based in Canada praised the support being provided by the IOM and other donors such as the UK ,US, France and lately Netherlands to promote surrender as the most viable option to combatants and non-state actors to come out of the bush. He said, “It is a way of telling them that after all, there is life after the conflict, you are not meant to die in the bush fighting, it is a safe corridor for them to walk in and surrender thereby de-populating the sect and diminishing the fighting capacity and depleting their fighting chance. “This is where the media comes in, the donors are actually looking forward to a situation whereby the DRR graduates become shining examples of the DRR process of intervention, the graduates even get a lifeline to prove to those still fighting in the bush that there is indeed a better life after fighting.  It is a carrot offensive, it is a kind of counter-radicalization offensive that has worked elsewhere’’. A former Nigerian Army colonel who recently retired disclosed that there is a Camp in Kainji which is a holding bay for those who have gone through the justice system. The retired military officer who does not want to be named,  while those in the DRR Camp in Gombe are those from Gwoza, Maiduguri, Giwa Barracks and Maimalari Cantonment, while some who have been tried by the Special Court in Kainji were being recommended for release to OPSC for derad, rehab because they were victims by association.