The deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, yesterday breathed the air of freedom after a Federal High Court in Abuja  ordered his immediate release from house arrest. It was learnt that following the court order, Sanusi left his place of banishment in Awe, Nasarawa State, and took a flight from Abuja to Lagos. Justice Anwuli Chikere gave the order in a ruling on an ex-parte motion filed by Sanusi through his lawyer, Prince Lateef Fagbemi, SAN. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that Sanusi had been under house arrest since Monday in Awe town in Nasarawa State, where he was banished to after his dethronement as Emir of Kano. However, the former emir challenged his restriction in court, pleading the enforcement of his human rights. In yesterday’s ruling, the judge ordered that the fundamental rights of the deposed emir to freedom of movement and human dignity flagrantly breached by his banishment must be restored to him immediately. The court agreed that since the former Emir had no pending criminal charge or valid order for his detention, placing him under house arrest under whatever guise is a clear breach of his fundamental rights as guaranteed under the 1999 Constitution. The court, in addition, ordered the service of the originating summon on the respondents through substituted means. Respondents in the suit are the Kano State government, Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, the Inspector General of Police and the Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS). The dethroned Emir had dragged the defendants before the court over his unlawful banishment to Awe town in Nasarawa State. Sanusi, in a fundamental human rights, suit instituted in Abuja, prayed the court to release him from detention and confinement to Awe town. In the suit brought pursuant to section 34, 35, 40, 41 and 46 of the 1999 Constitution and Order 4 Rule 4 of the Federal High Court, the former emir wants the court to restore  his right to human dignity, personal liberty, freedom of association and movement in Nigeria apart from Kano State. In the suit with no: FHC/ABJ/ CS/357/2020, filed by his counsel, Prince Lateef Fagbemi, SAN,  Sanusi is praying the court to declare his banishment to Nasarawa State, as illegal, unlawful, unconstitutional, null and void. LEADERSHIP  Weekend, however, learnt that the deposed emir arrived in Lagos around 9pm yesterday. The former Central Bank of Nigeria governor arrived in a chartered flight which landed amidst tight security on the Quits Aviation Terminal of the Lagos airport under the cover of the night. Many reporters who had got wind of his anticipated arrival in Lagos were, however, caught napping as the former monarch’s aircraft landed at a terminal exclusively for private and chartered planes amidst tight security and under the cover of darkness after which he was immediately whisked away from the airport. el-Rufai: Why I Visited Sanusi Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, has revealed that he visited his longtime friend, ideological soul mate and confidante, His Highness Muhammad Sanusi II,  as a mark of solidarity over his temporary travails at Awe town in Nasarawa State. A statement issued from Sir Kashim Ibrahim House yesterday said that ’the governor who drove from Abuja to Awe town, met His Highness in high spirits, demonstrating his usual calm, poise and regal bearing amidst what has befallen in the last four days.” The statement which was signed by Mr Muyiwa Adekeye, his Special Adviser on Media and Communication, said that ‘’His Highness seems  to have taken all that happened in his stride but has reiterated his commitment to enforce his fundamental human rights.” “Sanusi II, the 14th Fulani Emir of Kano, manifested a renewed vigour to continue serving humanity in his life long efforts to expand the frontiers of knowledge so that Nigeria will not remain a perpetual potentially great nation,’’ he said. According to the Special Adviser, elRufai arrived Awe town shortly before a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja granted an interim order releasing Sanusi from detention. Adekeye said that  el-Rufai and His Highness later drove to the mosque, where the latter led the Jumma’at prayer, adding that hundreds of well wishers lined up the road of Awe to hail His Highness on his way to the mosque and back to his residence. The statement further said that the duo rode in Governor  el-Rufai’s car to Abuja, from where Sanusi will proceed to  Lagos. Deposed Emir Sanusi leads Friday’s prayer in Awe Meanwhile, Sanusi led Friday prayers in Awe. The deposed Emir who has been in Awe since Tuesday March 10, was allowed to lead the Friday’s prayers at Central Mosque located at the palace of the Emir of Awe. Sanusi during his sermon urged Muslim faithful to always obey God and accept his judgement no matter the situation. According to him,  whatever happens to anyone is destined by God, otherwise there is no way it would happen. He underscored the need for Nigerians to also continue to pray for peace and progress of the country at large. The monarch also urged Muslims to fear God in all their activities, reminding them that everyone of them must give account of his or her deeds hereafter. This was Sanusi’s  first public speech after his dethronement and banishment by Kano State government. Among those that attended the prayer were Governor Nasir el Rufai of Kaduna State, Emir of Awe, Wuse and his Shabu counterpart, Mohammed Bwala. There was heavy security presence during the prayer as armed policemen and other security personnel were deployed to Awe where the deposed Emir was in exile. Among the people who visited Sanusi in his Awe residence were his aged mother, family members and close associates. However, Muhammad Sanusi II has left Awe. He left the community  at about 4:27 pm, in company with Governor Nasir elRufai after observing Friday congregational prayers. Sanusi To Chair Convocation Lecture At LASU Meanwhile, the deposed emir is slated to chair the convocation lecture of Lagos State University expected to hold on Thursday, 26th March 2020, with the theme: “The Future Of Developing Economies In A Digital World.” The keynote address will be delivered by the President, Africa Export-Import Bank Afreximbank, Professor Benedict Okey Oramah. About 76 graduating students would be awarded first class degrees at the 24th graduation ceremony of LASU scheduled to commence on Friday 20th to Friday 27th March, 2020. The vice chancellor, Professor Olarenwaju Fagbohun, at a pre-convocation press conference, told journalists that total number of 8,959 students will participate in the convocation ceremony. Fagbohun revealed  that the best graduating students is Mr. Shotunde Oladimeji Idris of the department of Business Administration, Faculty of Management Sciences, with Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.95. The outgoing VC said the number of first class graduates produced this year is the highest number in the history of the university, adding that the Faculty of Arts produced four first class graduates among whom is the first ever from the Department of English Language, Sanusi Remains Ekiti Varsity Chancellor – Management The management of Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado EkitI yesterday said the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II  remained the chancellor of the institution. Sanusi, who was deposed by the Kano State government on Monday for alleged insubordination, was appointed by Governor Kayode Fayemi as chancellor of the university in 2019. EKSU management, in a letter dated 12th March, 2020, signed by the Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof Eddy Olanipekun and addressed to the former Emir , said the institution will continue to recognise Sanusi as the Chancellor of the university despite his present predicament. The letter entitled : ‘Letter of Solidarity’, said the decision was taken owing to the university’s firm belief that Sanusi’ s wealth of experience would be useful to the university. The university sympathised with Lamido on his travail, saying the deposed Emir’s rulership in Kano will forever remain a reference point. “On behalf of the governing council, the Senate, staff and students of EKSU, where you serve as Chancellor want to identify with you at this critical moment of your life. “We will also like to reassure you of our unflinching support and cooperation as you traverse a new terrain”, the letter concluded. Sanusi: Sen Jibrin Advocates Constitutional  Amendment Against “Easy Removal” Of Monarchs The Board of Trustees (BoT) chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sen Walid Jibrin, yesterday called on the National Assembly to amend the constitution to make the process for removal of traditional rulers stiffer. Jibrin who is also the Sarkin Fulanin Nasarawa equally urged the legislative arm to give traditional rulers official roles. The PDP BoT chairman, who stated this while faulting the dethronement of Muhammadu Sanusi II as Emir of Kano,  said the people of Kano State and the former Emir’s family deserve an apology from the state government. He however called on traditional rulers to participate in politics in order to protect the highly respected Institution. Jibirin, in a statement,  added that the dethroning of Sanusi, a first class emir, and banishing him to far away Nasarawa by the governor within two hours, was very disturbing. “May I therefore call on this respected Senate in their effort to amend the 1999 Nigerian  to provide a strong procedure of Removing Emirs, Chiefs, Igwes and Obas‚ and equally give them official roles. “Emir Sanusi, the traditional ruler of a highly respected traditional stool of Kano shouldn’t have been treated as a rat being pursued.