Mr. Emeka Nwankpa is the Chief Media Strategist of Concerned Professionals’ Congress (CPC), a civil society group. In this interview ERNEST NZOR he avers that though the military and other security agencies have tackled and routed Boko Haram terrorists, the anti-terror war is better fought and won by all Nigerians. There is a concern that the war against terrorism is losing steam as a result of resurgent attacks by Boko Haram in the North East. What is your response to this claim? I do not agree that the war is losing steam. On the contrary, our troops continue to gain the upper hand in this war. The dynamics of the war is fast changing. Terrorism is an irregular, asymmetrical and non-conventional war, subject to rapid changes in form, scope and range. Nevertheless, the Nigerian military has proved to be on top of it. We are fortunate and blessed with a military with the heart, spirit and soul to defend the Nigerian country people with all the will it can muster. We have full confidence in the current military leadership under the Chief of Defence Staff, CDS, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. What we need now is more civilian support to our military and all the other security and intelligence agencies to bring the war to a definite end. But there had been renewed attacks on our formations by the insurgents such that the nation erupted in widespread fury prompting calls on the service chiefs to resign. Does this not call for worry? It does call for worry because our forces have been responding to the development appropriately. Don’t forget that apart from the war against terror on one hand, there is the war of narratives in which the insurgents will deploy all their efforts to gain advantage using maximum publicity on their attacks on soft targets. They have been so degraded, depleted and decimated that they no longer have the capacity to launch organized attacks on any part of the Nigerian territory. To that extent therefore, the military leadership are on their toes working. Mind you, the Boko Haram attacks are panic-driven. They are desperate especially after they became affiliated to the Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP) thereby introducing an international dimension to the entire fight with its huge implication on the dynamics if the fight. The heart of the matter is that we are in a state of war and in such situations, unintended things such as the killing of our soldiers, do happen. We owe them a debt of gratitude. We should remind ourselves where we were and where we are now and what has happened in-between. The Borno State people know that our military has done very well in the last years gone by, snatching peace for them from the jaws of Boko Haram. It could have been worse. The fight against terrorism since President Muhammadu Buhari’s embarked on his anti-terror strategy from May 2015 has been phenomenal, courtesy of the resilient service chiefs led by the synergy-driven Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. So why the resurgent attacks if you think our military is not losing steam prompting calls for the disengagement of the service chiefs? Before I address the issue of the so-called resurgent Boko Haram attacks, let me address the issue of the service chiefs to puncture the arguments. It is worth-noting that the real issues around insecurity in the country were being deliberately ignored and parried in favour of clearly partisan interests. The mere fixation on the service chiefs is irrational, baseless, illogical and wrong-headed. It became clear that the move against the service chiefs was bound to fail because it was irrational and wrong-headed. Nigerians are right to interrogate issues but most of the calls were tarred with the brush of partisanship and sheer political opposition to President Muhammadu Buhari government. They politicised the issues of security. They played politics with the peace, unity and peace of the nation. That was where they lost direction and betrayed their hidden motives. They made it look like the service chiefs did not achieve anything.  …(cuts in)…Are you saying that the calls were misplaced? Precisely, they were gruesomely and fatally misplaced. That was tantamount to destroying national infrastructure. They are part of our national heritage. They deserve delicate handling. They cannot be treated shabbily and I believe that accounted for the president’s position. We are in delicate and unusual times. The service chiefs led by the CDS, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin have done very well taking the fight against Nigeria’s enemies as their personal fight. We can’t forget so soon how, in the last era, Boko Haram bombed the Police Headquarters, the UN Building, EMAB Plaza, and the Nyanya Motor Park, all in Abuja, and threatened to hit more. Even the churches were enveloped with fear over threats of terrorists attacks. All kinds of security structures and barricades sprang up everywhere apart from several night vigils in place. But where are the terrorists now? Today, they are confined to Borno. Insurgency is now underground. The reckless bombings have stopped because our soldiers and other security personnel are fighting them and risking their lives. Now let us appraise what national security is. It is not the absence of security threats or the incapacity of security agencies to tackle them, rather it is the aggregate of core factors such as the increasing international terrorism after the routing of ISIS in Syria and the rest of the places. ISIS morphed into ISWAP and moved to the West African region. There are also wanton proliferation of arms and; light weapons, failure of governance especially at state and local levels in the country and the reckless politicization of security, among others. These factors have created huge security implications for the country in spite of the constantly-reviewed efforts by the nation’s security leadership in tackling unrelenting threats to national security. 