The Meter Asset Providers, MAP, initative was put together by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC, to fast track metering electricity consumers who have contended with excruciating estimated billing system by Electricity Distribution Companies, Discos.Today, the industry is beckoning for another model that will address over five million metering gap in the sector, CHIKA IZUORA, writes The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), in a well thought out policy gave approval to a regulation that provides for the supply, installation and maintenance of end-user meters by other parties approved by the Commission. The regulation which introduced the Meter Asset Provider, MAP, was in line with the Commissions renewed bid to ensuring that electricity customers only pay for what they actually consume and also is expected to fast track a closure of the metering gap and encourages the development of independent and competitive meter services in the electricity industry. The MAP Regulation (Regulation No. NERC/R/112), which was scheduled to become effective on April 3, 2018, introduces meter asset providers as a new set of service providers in Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry. As assets with a technically useful life of 10-15 years, the regulation provides for the third-party financing of meters, under a Permit issued by the Commission, and amortisation over a period of 10 years. The Discos in line with their licensing terms and conditions, are obliged to achieve their metering targets as set by the Commission under the new regulation. The contracting of Meter Asset Providers shall be through an open, transparent and competitive bid process thus ensuring that meters are provided at a least cost to electricity customers. In November 2013, when the Federal Government privatised the power sector, the country’s 11 DisCos were mandated to bridge metering gap hovering around 4.92 million meters within three years. But only 201,756 meters have been supplied as of 2017 according to industry regulator; NERC. In that arrangement, Nigerians were to be metered freely according the vision under the privatisation arrangement. According to available information the Discos supplied 79,850 prepaid meters in 2018 bringing the total metered customers in the country to 3.7 million out of about an estimated eight million electricity customers in Nigeria. The implication is that over four million Nigerians are billed at the discretion of the DisCos. The Discos continued to fleece customers through estimated billing which encouraged lack of accountability, probity and increased financial challenges in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) because of collection losses. NERC at that point introduced an initiative called Credit Advancement Payment for Metering Implementation (CAPMI). The CAPMI allows for interested and willing customer to advance money to their electricity distribution company and in return will be given electricity credit until the cost of the meter has been recovered by the customer. In 2016, then Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola asked NERC to stop the metering scheme, stressing that the scheme was a major customer concern, which has led to contractual distrust between electricity consumers and the 11 electricity distribution companies (Discos) in the country. The Minister had said most of the DisCos that collected money from their customers to procure and install meters at their homes have mostly failed to do so. NERC again re-modelled CAPMI by deregulating metering under Meter Assets Providers (MAP). Under the plan private sector players were introduced to supply and maintain meters and the burden of the cost of the meter is transferred to the consumer. Section four subsection three of the MAPs Regulation 2018 regulation requires all electricity distribution licensees to engage MAPs that would assist investors in closing the metering gap and thus eliminating the practice of estimated billing in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). It was designed that MAPs will encourage the development of independent and competitive meter services in NESI, eliminate estimated billing practices, attract private investment to the provision of metering services, close the metering gap through accelerated meter roll out and enhance revenue assurance. The plan is expected to source a minimum of 30 per cent of their contracted metering volumes from local meter manufacturing companies in Nigeria. However, as laudable as the MAPs policy appears to be, stakeholders are divided over the many flaws in the programme. To them the plan could be marred in obscurity because of poor payment plan, local content design, questionable contractors, ownership of asset; poor aftermarket and customer care issues and others. Indeed, there are indications that the plan was hurriedly designed without proper stakeholder-wide consultation while the processes were shrouded in secrecy. There have been some conversations among stakeholders and consumers which points to the seeming slow pace implementation of the scheme leaving many customers stranded even after meeting the requirement for prepaid meters. Mr. Adetayo Adegbemle, Executive Director, PowerUp Nigeria, an electricity consumer right and policy advocacy organization, in his view about the MAP implementation noted with dismay lack of transparency by Discos in keying into the scheme. According to Adegbemle, “Out of the 108 companies given license of no objection, only 22 was eventually assigned to the 11 Discos, with 1 MAP, Mojec by name, with no apparent capacity to fulfil the orders appearing up to 9 Discos” Adegbemle said that some operators claimed that the MAP was “forced” on them. Investigation by LEADERSHIP showed that there are companies with capacities in Nigeria like ENL with N1.3 billion worth of Meters in the store, Unistar Meters with products worth N300 million in stock, MOMAS Electricity Meter Manufacturing Company, MEMMCOL, with capacity of 50, 000 meters monthly and Carlin Concept with meters available for supply. He said NERC has not shown commitment in seeing the success of MAP, with no structure put in place to monitor deployments of Meters to Customers, as seen by complaints from customers all over nigeria. Another point that indicates the unreadiness of NERC is the fact that  6 months (August 2019 to  February 2020) after MAP kicked off, NERC has not released the Tariff Order for Customers who obtained Meters through MAP to get their investment back. He recommended liberalisation of the Metering of Consumers and that all Meter Assets Providers to access the market directly while NERC should publish qualified and licensed companies. Kola Balogun, Chairman/ CEO , MOMAS Electricity Meter Manufacturing Company (MEMMCOL), told LEADERSHIP in an interview that none of the Meter Assets Providers (MAPs) has ever contacted him for the 30 per cent local content meter manufacturing  involvement as they go ahead to pay Chinese company 70 per cent of meter importation order but to pay for local company to supply meter is a problem and they don’t come for contracts. “let me explain some of the things that can improve power sector. Today, we need to enhance our infrastructure on the distribution value chain, power generation is increasing tremendously, Federal government is trying to spend more money on transmission, the distribution network needs to be improved and we are providing a way forward to be able to improve distribution infrastructures. We are doing so by ensuring that all the substations and all technical and commercial losses are reduced significantly to barest  minimum  in order to deliver power to the consumers. If you have meter in all customers’ premises and the network/ infrastructures cannot  support to deliver power to them, it is a wasteful investment. Let me also tell you what is happening in the metering sector, we are promoting a technology that does not belong to us, whereas we have our own developed technology, purely designed and made in Nigeria and that can solve all our problems but they don’t listened. There are some ideological frameworks being imposed  on us but which is not supposed to be so. They are supposed to listen to us all and know our technical capability. They should promote local content in order to pass the massage to domestic need and that power sector need to grow, the ministry needs to do more by callling all the stakeholders to define new road maps in achieving the optimization of delivering stable electricity to consumers at a fairly minimum tariff.” Balogun said. Continuing he said, that meter imported in to the country is a total contravention of the Local Content Act, because if regulation said you must ensure 30 per cent  local content and you are now fulfilling 70 per cent foreign importation of meters it shows lack of respect for the law. “I don’t have problem with importing component and raw materials which I still pay five per cent. Why would someone go and import meters without patronizing 30 per cent local mandatory specification by government? I can table my capacity if I’m encouraged and same goes to other local meter manufacturers. So, we need to sit down and look at how to address the anomalies in the system. We need to develop our technological capability to address our power problem. Everybody should  come and manufacture in Nigeria, we have what it takes in Nigeria to produce locally. “The regulation says that when you are to import 1,000 meter into the country, 300 must be purchased locally while 700 be imported but on the condition that if local factories cannot meet up the 300 meters. Fortunately, we have the supply. Then, you must keep patronizing local company but our MAPs licensee would rather prefer to send money to China and neglect the local manufacturers. Meanwhile, if they want to deal with local company, they will be asking for credit. I have never seen this kind of people in my life. I have never seen where people will disrespect local company at the expense of foreign companies, it is absurd”he said Speaking along same line, Dr. Dallas Peavey, Group Chief Operating Officer, Armese Power Solutions, observed that the MAP had a very slow start, though he said Port Harcourt, Eko, Ikeja, Kano have made great strides in the MAP process. “The problems are the delay in cost, implementation from the customers and even the changes from NERC itself. We had what we thought was a set cost for meters, the parameters for which you should charge for meters and the process to install those meters. However, NERC came back and said ‘oh by the way, there’s a 35 per cent  tariff added on top of the cost of your meters.’ How do you go back and tell the customers, ‘oh by the way, the meters are 35 per cent  more’ when they can’t afford the meters to begin with? That’s one. The second is what about the customers that have already paid for the meters? They paid this cost, Armese paid this cost and now going forward those customers have to pay 35 per cent  more? How does that happen? Today, you have meters that have been abandoned at the ports. They are not getting installed simply because nobody can afford the 35 per cent  tariff. I think all of those things added together need to be addressed so that as we move forward, we can do so in an expedited manner and with a reasonable expected return on the investments of each one of these groups.” Peavey said. Continuing, he opined that when you increase the cost of importation for no good reason to 35 per cent just because the regulatory agency says that’s the cost, there are only two ways to deal with it: either you pay it or you don’t. “Or in Armese’s case, try to figure out a way around it. But the way around it is not to circumvent it. It’s to look at how we can do the process in an improved manner. To improve the process means you will bring in the components and try to assemble them here, which Armese can do with our manufacturing subsidiary MSMSL.” he explained. “That entails realigning our factory so that we take all the components, manufacture them together and only pay a 5 per cent  levy versus 35 per cent. For us, that’s great because it means more business. But for the other providers, they can’t do that. So they only have those last two choices which are: pay the levy and go out of business, or don’t pay it and still go out of business. “ he added. On capacity, he said that Armese has installed capacity to meet local demand and this Jos made possible working with its manufacturing arm MSMSL. For other companies, the problem is that they import everything, he said but that the majority of the MAPs come to his company to buy their meters.