Olowu of Kuta, Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama has charged the deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Lamido Sanusi 11, to as a matter of priority take up the gauntlet and see to the reformation of the traditional institution to regain its lost glory. While congratulating him for regaining his freedom from banishment, Oba Makama noted that Sanusi has set an historical record of freedom for any monarchs in similar circumstances. Olowu in a statement issued by his Media Office In Kuta, Osun State also lauded the federal government for prompt obedience to the court order that freed Sanusi from banishment, adding that it shows the adherence to rule of law by President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. His words, “I want to congratulate Muhammadu Sanusi ll for his freedom which was made possible by the democratic dispensation. I also want him now having been in and out of palace and knows where the shoe pinches for the traditional rulers take up the challenge of how to reform the traditional institution. “He should not be swayed by those inviting him to partisan politics, his focus now should be how to reform the traditional institution in Nigeria in conjunction with stakeholders among concern genuine Monarchs with the view to reposition it. “I think we need to enact a legislation that will insulate the traditional rulers from politics so that they can play the role of fathers to all, that destiny has placed on them.” adding that the  Colonial Chiefs law need total amendments or outright Review. He, however, said Sanusi should also explore the window offers by the constitution review by the 9th assembly to submit memorandum to be considered for the needed amendments on the traditional institution in order to regain its lost. “I condemn in the strongest terms any groups or individuals reading ulterior motives to Emir sanusi choice of Lagos, the South West has always been known for its accommodating nature of class of people irrespective of tribal or religious beliefs, the emir should feel at home in the South West and enjoy a peaceful coexistence with us” Makama posited. 