Farmers under the auspices of Agricultural Promotion Organisation of Nigeria (APON), has called on President Muhammadu Buhari , to ensure that the border remain closed for the next 10 years. Speaking during a solidarity rally in support of border cclosure, the president of the organisation, Comrade Bashiru Alhassan, said farmers were happy with the border closure. “We are happy with the clossure of the land border. Farmers now make sales with a lot of products produced and consumed by Nigerians. “We are here to commend President Muhammadu Buhari for the great achievement so far especially bin the agriculture sector. We are here to show solidarity with the governorment and to inform the government that the border should remain closed for 10 years,” Alhassan said. The group said there was now no importation of rice into Nigeria, adding that communities and states were now producing a lot of rice in tones for  local consumption. “Not only rice, cassava and other agricultural produce are now being produced in large quantities as a result of the border closure. All the agricultural associations are ready to continue to support Buhari’s government,” Alhassan added. Also speaking during the rally, the representative of Rice Farmers Association (RFA) who is also the chairman, Board of Trustees, Agriculture Promotion Organization of Nigeria (APON), Comrade Akortsaha Aondohembafan, said  local rice was now  cheaper than the foreign rice and more nutritious. He said the clossure of the border has brought a lot of good things into the country, adding that the closure has stopped smuggling of agriculture products. He said even with the reduction in oil price, agricultural produce would help the country’s GDP. “With the closure of the border, there is increase in revenue accrued to Nigeria because the local farmers are doing well,” Aondohembafan said. He said the Nigeria customs comptroller general,  Hameed Ali, should be comended for generating huge amount of money on a daily basis. “We are fully in support of the land border closure and it should continue for next 10 years,” Aondohembafan added. 