President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the ministry of Youth and Sports Development to open and make available stadiums in Surulere, Lagos, Ibadan, Kaduna and Abuja as well as orientation camps of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) nationwide for use as isolation centres for patients of coronavirus. The minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, who confirmed this via his twitter handle, noted that the ministry was already in in touch with relevant authorities and stakeholders to make the facilities available in line with the president’s approval and as part of the ministry’s contribution to halting the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “Since the stadiums are huge complexes with many outdoor and indoor areas, it is now up to medical personnel and authorities to determine the appropriate areas of usage if and when necessary. “The stadiums can be used as testing centres and because of space they will allow for required distancing. The identification and fumigation of multiple buildings such as the multipurpose sports hall, gymnastics and other spaces located in the stadium will commence shortly. “The world over, stadiums are being used by nations as they race against the ravages of COVID -19. The Santiago Bernabéu (Real Madrid Stadium) will be turned into a storage and distribution centre for medical materials donated to the health authorities in Spain. London’s ExCeL Exhibition and Conference Centre is being repurposed to care for patients infected with COVID-19. “In Brazil, top football clubs have turned over their stadiums to the country’s health authorities to use as field hospitals. The Hard Rock Stadium in Florida, United States was converted into a community testing centre amongst others. “Back home, Lagos State Government has set up the Onikan Stadium (Mobolaji Johnson Stadium) to support efforts at halting the pandemic. While our prayers are that Nigeria never gets to the level where these facilities will be put to this use, we must however all be prepared to support the system and ensure that the nation is not caught unawares”. Urging the youths to be accurate in the kind of information they make public on social media, the minister said, “We are in this together, and together we shall overcome. I call on the youth of Nigeria to be at the vanguard of dissemination of timely and accurate information via social media to Nigerians in their communities. We must ratchet up the awareness campaign for our people. God bless all our doctors and medical staff at this critical time”. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson Test Positive Meanwhile, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, whose country has seen more than 14,000 declared coronavirus cases and 759 deaths, said he had developed mild symptoms over the previous 24 hours and was self-isolating after testing positive. Britain’s Health Secretary Matt Hancock also tested positive with mild symptoms. The coronavirus pandemic has killed 25,066 people, with Europe accounting for most of the deaths, according to an AFP tally at 1430 GMT Friday based on official statistics. Europe was the worst-hit continent with 17,314 fatalities. Italy had the highest number of deaths in the world at 8,165, followed by Spain (4,858) and China (3,292). At least 547,034 coronavirus cases have been registered around the world since December. Confirmed Cases In Nigeria Now 81 Back home, Nigeria has confirmed five new cases of COVID-19, bringing the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 81. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), three of the new cases were reported in FCT and two in Oyo State. As at 11:55pm on 27th March, cases of confirmed COVID19 in Nigeria stood at 81. Spain reported that its death toll had hit 4,858 after 769 people died in 24 hours, a record one-day figure. It was higher than the latest toll from hard-hit Italy, where experts said the epidemic could peak in the next few days but regional authorities warned the crisis was far from over. The rate of new infections also appeared to be slowing in Spain, something officials cautiously described as “promising”. Europe has suffered the brunt of the coronavirus crisis in recent weeks, with millions across the continent on lockdown and the streets of Paris, Rome and Madrid eerily empty. US Entices Foreign Doctors, Nurses With Work Visas Meanwhile, the United States government has asked medical professionals around the world who would want to work in that country to reach out for visa appointment. On Thursday, the United States overtook China as the country with the highest number of novel coronavirus patients anywhere in the world. To further tame the spread of the virus and treatment of those infected, the US is calling out to medical professionals to apply to work in the North American country. “We encourage medical professionals seeking to work in the United States on a work or exchange visitor, particularly those working to treat or mitigate the effects of COVID-19, to reach out to the nearest embassy or consulate to request a visa appointment,” a statement to that effect noted. The US is also extending visas for medical professionals in the country. “For those foreign medical professionals already in the United States: J-1 Alien Physicians (medical residents) may consult with their program sponsor, ECFMG, to extend their programs in the United States. Generally, a J-1 program for a foreign medical resident can be extended one year at a time for up to seven years. Note that the expiration date on a U.S. visa does not determine how long one can be in the United States”, it stated. According to various sources, 77 percent of black doctors in the US are Nigerians. Nigerian Military Recalls Retired Doctors, Sets Up 17 Quarantine Centres Meanwhile, to support the federal government in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the Nigerian military has resolved to recall its retired medical personnel. The decision, according to them, was to complement those in active service. The coordinator, Directorate of Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, while briefing journalists on the armed forces’ preparedness to support the fight against COVID-19, also disclosed that the military has established 17 isolation and treatment centres. He said the military has also constituted a committee to provide the necessary support to the federal government. He noted: “Sequel to the on-going fight against the spread of the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) by the Federal government of Nigeria, the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) has put measures in place to aid the civil authorities. As you may be aware, Section 217 (2) c of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), empowers the Military to act in aid of civil authority. “Consequently, a committee was constituted at the Defence Headquarters to ensure that the AFN provides the necessary support to the Federal Government of Nigeria, at this period. “It is mainly a non-kinetic military operation with major features of Civil Military Cooperation (CIMIC) activities. Equally, it is in line with the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) lines of conducting contemporary military operations in Nigeria”. Speaking further, Enenche added that the military has developed a two-pronged approach to combat the pandemic, namely; the medical and security approaches. He continued: “The medical approach is the deployment of military personnel in aid of all Ministries Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government through the provision of land, maritime and air assets, for transportation of emergency cases and medical supplies, as was the case with the medical supplies donated by the Jack Ma Foundation. “Furthermore, under the medical aid, we have 17 medical facilities spread across the Country, which have been designated for isolation and treatment of confirmed cases of the COVID-19. We have also concluded plans to recall our retired medical personnel to complement those in active service. “On Security Related Support, the Armed Forces of Nigeria will activate its Disaster Response Units across the Country in conjunction with National Emergency Management Agency. These units will be responsible for security management of emergencies other than medicals”. Bauchi Gov Speaks From Isolation Centre, Says He Is In Good Spirit Meanwhile, Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, has assured the people of the state that his condition has not deteriorated after testing positive for coronavirus. The state governor who spoke from isolation said his only regret staying in there was that such condition will not allow him to serve his “dear people at this critical time of need”, adding however that the challenges are surmountable. A statement by his media aide, Muktari Gidado, quoted the governor as saying:”By the grace of God, we shall have the courage, strength and faith to overcome all tribulations. Allah is the Greatest! He is Sufficient and Merciful. May these tests be the utmost expiation of our sins, limitations and inadequacies. “Insha Allah we shall overcome. With humility and gratitude, I wish all the people of Bauchi and Nigeria Allah’s bountiful blessings, prosperity and protection from the scourge of sickness, insecurity and poverty.” Governor Mohammed further appreciated what he described as “numerous calls, flurry of texts massages and WhatsApp posts sympathizing with me. “Thank God I am still leading the fight against our numerous challenges from isolation”, he added. Bala, in the statement, reiterated that his condition has not worsened, adding “he is sound, calm and in good spirit despite infection with COVID-19.”