Immediate past minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, has been appointed the new chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF). To work with Ogbeh on the ACF National Working Committee (NWC) as secretary -general is former minister of State for Power and Steel, Alhaji Murtala Aliyu. They were yesterday named in Kaduna as the new leaders of the apex Northern socio-cultural group. Also on the new team are Ambassador Shehu Malami, Senator Fred Orti and Ambassador Ibrahim Mai Sule. They will serve as members of the ACF Board of Trustees (BoT) as chairman, deputy chairman and vice chairman respectively. Other members of the NWC are Senator Ibrahim Ida (deputy chairman), Senator Salihu Matori (vice chairman), Alhaji Tambari Ahmed (deputy secretary-general), Alhaji Yakubu Gobir (assistant secretary-general), Mr Emmanuel Yaweh (publicity secretary), Ambassador Ayuba Ngbako (deputy publicity secretary) and Col. Aliyu Audu (rtd) (as assistant publicity secretary). Others include Alhaji Shuaibu Shehu (legal adviser), Alhaji Yahaya Abdullahi (deputy legal adviser), Alhaji Mohammed Jibrin (assistant legal adviser), Alhaji Babasule Bisalla (treasurer), Ms Fati E. Ibrahim (deputy treasurer), Alhaji Yusuf Jega (assistant treasurer), Alhaji Ibrahim Moriki (financial secretary), Chief Kevin Kwapn (deputy financial secretary), Alhaji Ajiya Idris (assistant financial secretary), Hajia Saadatu Abdullahi (auditor), Alhaji Hassan Yusufu (deputy auditor) and Alhaji Mohammed Yakubu. The names of the new leadership were released to the AFC General Assembly by chairman and secretary of the leadership selection committee, Lt Gen M.I. Wushishi (rtd) and Malam Bukar Zarma, and were subsequently ratified and adopted accordingly. Earlier, the General Assembly presided over by the outgone BoT chairman, Alhaji Adamu Fika, was briefed on the postponement of the 20th anniversary celebration of the forum. Meanwhile, the newly elected executive committee of the ACF, Benue State chapter, has pledged to focus on the primary mission of the group, which is preserving the culture, unity and peaceful co-existence of Nigerians in the 19 Northern member states. The state chairman of the forum, Chief Silas MacIkpa, told LEADERSHIP after the inauguration of the committee in Makurdi, the state capital, that the forum’s objective by the founding fathers was to create a platform for consultation and dialogue among all the diverse communities on the developmental strides and other matters affecting the people of the North. Maclkpa said, ”Over the years, there has been a crying need by the 19 northern states that make up the forum for a platform like this so that we can reason together, bring up developmental ideas and as well clear misunderstanding when they do occur for the benefit of the forthcoming generation.” He emphasised that ACF, which is a non-religious, tribal and political organization, is anchored on truth and as such, will not in any way undermine the interest of anybody or group. ”AFC as a body will not constitute any threat to anybody or group and as members, we do not dabble into political matters because members of the forum belong to diverse political parties while others do not belong to any political party at all,” he added. On what the association would do to end insecurity in the country and Benue State in particular, Maclkpa said that the forum was in talks with sister bodies in other states to close ranks in the fight against insecurity. While commending President Muhammadu Buhari for his doggedness in the fight against corruption, he appealed to the president to beam his searchlight on insecurity in Northern states.