In this report, CHIBUZO UKAIBE captures the intrigues within the Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as some aspirants intend to wrestle the party’s governorship ticket from the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. With less than four months to the governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, it is obvious that the battle for the soul of the party is becoming more interesting. It is equally characterised by certain dynamics which are seemingly unpredictable. As at the last count, aside the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), there are no fewer than seven other contestants eyeing the ticket of the APC and thence, the Alagbaka Government House. The list include; Segun Abraham; Senate deputy leader, Prof Ajayi Boroffice; Chief Olusola Oke, Engr Ifeoluwa Oyedele, Barrister Bukola Adetula, Hon Isaacs Kekemeke (former Ondo APC Chairman) and Prof (Dr) Adedayo Faduyile (NMA President). All these aspirants have one common goal. It is to edge the governor out. To achieve this objective, they have formed what is called the Unity Forum under which auspices strategies are being formed up for the purpose of the ultimate goal. Interestingly, the Unity Forum, led by former deputy governor, Ali Olanusi, has in its fold all the aspirants, except Kekemeke and Faduyile. Kekemeke has since described the forum as an amalgamation of persons whose operations are too combative and inimical to the health of the party. Nonetheless, he has also not speared Governor Akeredolu at every given opportunity, that he had not done enough to bring the party together. All the same, in order to achieve their aim, members of the Unity Forum constituted a seven man Committee to fine tune arrangements to raise a consensus candidate against Akeredolu at the governorship primary. Senator Yele Omogunwa and Prof. Ehindero emerged the chairman and secretary of the Committee respectively. Other members of the Committee are, Elder Mike Adeyeye, Ajiroba Boye Adegbemisoye, Prince Solagbade Amodeni, Hon Afe Olowokere and Mrs Kemi Iyantan. A week after the constitution of the committee, the leadership of the group met in Abuja under the guidance of Olanusi and Boroffice where preliminary discussions as regards the issue of a consensus candidate were held. While all the aspirants in the group attended the meeting, Ife Oyedele was absent but was represented by a loyalist. Feelers from the meeting indicated that sharp disagreements have already heralded the plans for a consensus candidate. Succinctly, Oyedele, with feelers that he may not be considered as a possible point, has decided to stay away from the activities of the group. According to a source, while majority of the members in the group are rooting for Oke, Oyedele and Abraham have made up their minds to go their individual ways. At the Abuja meeting of the group, Oke, who is being tipped, told the party leaders that he hasn’t enough war chest to prosecute an election against Governor Akeredolu. At the meeting, Boroffice was insistent on Oke even as he suggested that the running mate should come from the governor’s hometown, Owo. Oke is from the South senatorial district. Perhaps, this is not the first sign of discord among the leaders in the group. Such sustained tolerance and suppressed cold war had emerged three months ago when some members of the group accused their leader, Olanusi, of using them to prosecute a personal war against the governor. A member of the Unity Forum who spoke on the condition of anonymity said they were aware that the frosty relationship between the former deputy governor and Akeredolu started shortly after the governor refused to heed the request of the former. “We are aware of what is happening; we know how they started and what separated them. The formwer deputy governor has been telling us he didn’t get anything from the governor, yet, available records show that he had been paid about N65 million. Their crisis started when the governor refused to pay the over N400 million request Olanusi made,” he said. Shortly after this disclosure, a major sign of discord within the Forum emerged. It was in respect of the choice of former Osun State governor and pioneer interim national chairman of APC,  Chief Bisi Akande as chairman of the party’s national reconciliation committee. In a communiqué at the end of its  meeting in Akure,  the Olanusi led group not only rejected Akande but alleged that he is an agent of Governor Akeredolu who is on the payroll of the Ondo State Government. The Unity Forum equally berated and rejected the Advisory Council led by Pius Akinyelure, an ally of the APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The communiqué read in part: “The meeting reviewed the replacement of the Senate president with His Excellency, Chief Bisi Akande, as the chairman of the APC National Reconciliation Committee and pass a vote of no confidence in Chief Akande as the chairman of the committee. “Chief Akande was part of the reconciliation committee that met with the party leadership in Ondo State in July 2019 in Akure, where it was agreed that the party executive in the state be dissolved, but up till this moment, the governor, through some of our leaders, have been blocking the dissolution that was jointly agreed on in the presence of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Segun Osoba, Chief Bisi Akande, Chief Pius Akinyelure, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and Pastor Bankole  Oluwajana, the South-West vice chairman of the APC. The position of the Olanusi led group has come under serious attacks. Oluwajana in a statement issued by the APC Zonal publicity secretary, Rt. Hon. Karounwi Oladapo said the party would not hesitate to sanction any erring member. “The party leadership will visit any member who disparages APC leaders with severe sanctions and the full weight of APC Constitution on discipline will be brought to bear on such individuals or group of persons, however how highly placed. “APC is not a lawless party. Members can criticize and disagree with the leaders on principles and opinions but no members have the latitude to attack the personality of the leaders, assassinate their character and bring them to public ridicule,” the statement added. Oluwajana described the attack on Chief Akande as reckless, stressing that, “Chief Bisi Akande is the foundation and pioneer national chairman of APC and one of the best in the South West going by his track records and spotless character. He deserves respect from all at all times. “The APC leadership was shocked and hugely embarrassed that a supposed member of APC can publicly cast aspersions and throw muds at Chief Bisi Akande whose greatest asset is his unblemished name and untainted integrity. ”This can only come from a member who joined APC midway and had not been indoctrinated to the ethos and tradition of the progressives, especially in the South West, where we hold our leaders in high esteem.” The South West APC leaders thereby passed a vote of confidence on Chief Akande and its newly inaugurated National Reconciliation Committee. Curiously, a frontline governorship aspirant in the group, Abraham has dissociated himself from the purported statement credited to the Unity Forum in respect of Akande. Abraham, in a statement personally signed by him, said that the vote of no confidence passed on Chief Akande by the group was unacceptable, frivolous and unpatriotic. He added that the allegation levied against him was unfounded, frivolous and lack any credibility. “This was not discussed at the Unity Forum meeting which I attended,” he said. Abraham urged the party leaders who passed the vote of no confidence on Chief Akande to publicly apologize to him saying, “he (Akande) is forever our pride in Yoruba Land and Nigeria at large. I will never sit down and allow anyone to abuse Baba Akande instead I will leave politics maintain my conscience and integrity.” As the game approaches, there is no doubt that various  indices are likely to be at play. Nonetheless, the strong hold of Governor Akeredolu on the recognised party structure in Ondo State is not in doubt. Similarly, the Unity Forum had banked on the support of some national leaders such as Akande, Tinubu, Akinyelure and the suspended national chairman,  Adams Oshiomhole. While Tinubu has remained tactically detached from the activities of the Unity Forum, the frosty relationship between him and Boroffice has taken a heavy toll on the potency of the group. Boroffice and Ife Oyedele are the major financiers of the group. For the governor, he appears to have crossed a major albatross. The visit of President Muhammadu Buhari as part of activities marking his 3rd year in office as governor has cleared a phenomenal doubt about his performance. The narrative churned out by his opponents within the APC may have been non-performance. With a presidential declaration that the Governor’s achievements are remarkable, the burden of a political statement has now been heaped on the Unity Forum to dismiss.