By SOLOMON NDA-ISAIAH The Good Husband, a Nigerian movie which explores the challenges that comes with marriages, will hit the cinemas in Nigeria from November 13, 2020. The film, which was originally scheduled for release on April 17th before the COVID-19 pandemic struck, is produced and directed by multiple award winning filmmaker, Dickson Iroegbu DGN, and distributed by Genesis Cinemas; promises to thrill anxious audience. ‘THE GOOD HUSBAND’, narrates the story of a marriage counselor, who is committed to the success of other people‘s marriages, but allows his passion drive a wedge into his home − a generous case of taking the log out your eyes before the spec in your neighbour’s eyes. ‘THE GOOD HUSBAND’ is a timely tale in today‘s Nigeria where divorce and sometimes spousal murder is assuming alarming proportions. It explores themes of sex, communication, rigours of different perspectives of couples and respective relatives, as well as themes of love and forgiveness. The movie promises the twist and turns of marital journeys, providing rib-cracking and reflective moments. It boasts of some of Nigeria‘s best and brightest movie exports such as Sam Dede, Monalisa Chinda, Francis Duru, Thelma Okoduwa-Ojiji, Paul Sambo and Bassey Ekpo Bassey. It also has in its cast Eeefy Ike, Shield Nwazuruahu and several others. The producer and director of this movie, Dickson Iroegbu, a leading and talented filmmaker in Nigeria, and his company, Teamwork Studios Limited, has reached out to Churches and Mosques within and outside Nigeria to encourage the viewing of THE GOOD HUSBAND movie in order to help fight the scourge of divorce and spoilers in marriage. Mr. Iroegbu, has produced and directed over twenty blockbuster movies, and revolutionized the Nigerian film industry with many of his movie productions such as, ‘Women’s Cot’, ‘Critical Condition’, ‘Unfaithful’ , ‘Romantic Attraction’ and ‘The Mayors’; which earned him Best Picture, Best Screenplay and Best Director at the prestigious African Movie Academy Awards, AMAA. Details of THE GOOD HUSBAND, including the movie thriller, synopsis and ticket purchase can be obtained by visiting the official website http://www.thegoodhusbandmovie.com/