As Nigerians groan over the recent increase in price of premium motor spirit (petrol), the federal government assured yesterday that the introduction of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) will cushion the effect of the price hike.
Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said the auto-gas, an alternative to petrol, is 40 per cent cheaper than petrol. Highlighting the economic benefits of CNG, the minister noted that Nigerians will not feel the impact of the recent increase in pump price of petrol. According to him, the federal government has concluded plans to introduce the CNG by the end of October.
The minister urged motorists to go for conversion of their vehicles from petrol to gas-run engine, adding that the federal government will ensure that the conversion will be done free of charge for all Nigerians to cushion the effect of the hike in pump price of petrol. LEADERSHIP recalls that Sylva had announced that the auto-gas will cost between N95 and N97 per litre, which is cheaper than the rate of PMS currently pegged at N162 per litre. While making a presentation during a meeting with government delegation and Labour, Sylva said Nigeria lost an average of N1 billion daily between 2016 and 2019 as a result of fuel subsidy and N3.74 billion daily before 2016.
He also noted that Nigeria lost N10.4 trillion to fuel subsidy between 2016 and 2019 The minister said Nigeria’s economy had not been well for a while now, adding that it has become incumbent on all to join hands to see how to salvage the situation. According to him, every successive administration in country had come to realise that subsidy was not good for the economy but having the political will to implement deregulation policy has been the problem.
He said that despite recent move by federal government to introduce market pricing of fuel, Nigeria has not fully deregulated because of the concerns the government has for the people. Sources had said the plan for CNG was to commence conversion of cars from petrol-run engines to CNG-run engines in a sequenced approach, with the conversion of public transport systems through the transport companies.
Also, it was gathered that the government has already begun pairing private sector companies that will provide conversion kits and refueling systems. Also, it was gathered that there are over 30 auto-gas refueling locations currently available to fuel either CNG or LPG nationwide.
Industry watchers say it costs between N100,000 and N300,000 to convert a car from petrol or diesel engine to a CNG engine, depending on the nature and condition of the car.
Thus, the conversion would result in up to 40 per cent savings in energy cost for car owners and motorists.
The use of auto-gas is to replace fuel consumption and reduce excess spending on imported fuels by providing alternatives to petrol, diesel and kerosene. It is also expected the create millions of direct and indirect jobs across the country.
To this effect, in January, 2020, the Committee on National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP) was inaugurated by the Minister. To support the introduction of CNG into the Nigerian market, fuel station regulations have been revised by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is set to deploy CNG refueling equipment into 10 of its stations before the end of September. In a document titled “Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code (NGTNC)”, it stated that plans have reached advanced stage for the development of Autogas in NNPC-owned and operated mega stations in the 36 states and the FCT.
The document also added that these filling stations will offer a full complement of gas products for motorists in addition to existing fuel products. On June 30, 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari had launched the $2.8 billion 614km Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) natural gas pipeline in Ajaokuta, Kogi State and Rigachikun area of Kaduna State.
The expectation is that it would further improve gas supply nationwide as the gas pipeline is expected to boost domestic gas consumption, power generation, and industrialization. …Seeks Labour’s Understanding
In a related development, the federal government yesterday implored organised labour to show understanding in respect of the recent hike in fuel pump prices and electricity tariff.
Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, her Petroleum Resources and Labour and Employment counterparts, Timipre Sylva and Chris Ngige, who spoke during a bilateral meeting between government and the labour union on Tuesday in Abuja said there was need for understanding in the quest for social economic recovery from the negative impact of the ravage caused by COVID-19 pandemic in the country.
On his part, Ngige said Nigeria is faced with the “new normal to survive as human species and we can only hope to build back better society that would sustain us and aid us in our quest for recovery both physically and structurally.
“To achieve success in this quest we would need all hands on deck; hence the need for transparency in action, effective and efficient communication between the government and the people, particularly labour which is regarded as a vital arm in the means of production,” he added. Nigerians are suffering, Labour insists But the organised labour comprising the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) told the federal government delegation that the recent increase in the prices of petroleum products and electricity tariff were choking workers and Nigerians. The organised labour also stated that the hike had erased the gains recorded with the signing of the national minimum wage into law last year by President Muhammadu Buhari. NLC President, Ayubba Wabba, during a dialogue with the government delegation faulted federal government’s decision to unilaterally fixing prices of electricity and petrol without consultations with Nigerians.
According to him, many Nigerians are struggling to survive because of the high cost of living occasioned by government’s recent policies which included increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT). Ngige led the government team to the dialogue which held at the Banquet Hall of the presidential villa.
The labour team was led by Wabba and president of the TUC, Quadri Olaleye. Wabba said, “The question now is what do you have on the table to actually cushion the effect on workers and their families because they have been pushed to the wall. They are already enraged. Do you have anything for us so that we can say yes despite this challenges this is what I have for Nigerian workers that they can be able to have something that can cushion this effect for them? “Already, the value of the minimum wage has been eroded. The purchasing power parity when you compare with all West African countries we are already on the ground. That is the reality. If Ghana compares their minimum wage with our own you will see their minimum wage.” Labour accused the federal government of transferring the “inefficiency in the subsidy regime” to the consumers which they (consumers) have to pay through hike in price.
The NLC president urged the government to fix the nation’s refinery and stop lining the pockets of fuel through a fraudulent subsidy regime. Wabba continued: “I agree with Mr President that subsidy is a fraud but do we address it or transfer it to the customers? That is where the issue is. We don’t need to transfer it to the customers.
“More than 90 countries of the world actually have minimum wage on this. Those are the issues that are biting very hard and workers and citizens are crying aloud that there is much burden on them.
“We have increased VAT, we have increased some taxes, and we have now increased the fuel price and the tariff on electricity. An ordinary worker can’t pay those charges. In fact higher level officers are complaining seriously. This is the predicament we are in. “Therefore let us also look for solutions. How do we mitigate this impact which is very pronounced on workers? Any time you increase the cost of petroleum product and electricity tariff they will transfer the cost to the consumer and therefore the cost of goods and services will go up. Clearly speaking, what we need to do is to protect these vulnerable group of people- the workers and the citizens.” On his part, TUC president, Olaleye asked the government to reverse the recent increases and policies which have been biting Nigerians hard. Although the government team made presentations on its policies, it didn’t specify how the effects of recent hikes in electricity and petroleum products would be alleviated. The TUC president stated, “Nigerian workers are crying and the populace are also crying. Last year December we were so happy that when we signed the minimum wage agreement and Nigerian workers were happy that their lots were increased. Unfortunately now they are crying. By calculation we are losing additional 15 percent of what we gained as a result of signing minimum wage. “Let us remove the effect of COVI -19, our leaders, our representatives nothing has changed. We have not been able to discuss labour matters since February all in the name of there is COVID-19 but people that are signing budget, people that are sharing money on daily basis they meet either on zoom or physically. They meet and share this money but when they come to labour matters we have to remember that there is COVID-19. “The questions are members are asking is that does it really mean that the politicians represent the rich people in this country? Does it mean it is only labour that represent the poor people? Does it mean when we have economic predicament that is when we call Nigerians that we want to hear from them but when we have surpluses we hear nothing about it.
“I cannot remember any time in this country that we had surplus and Nigerian workers or populace will feel it on their Palm or in their pockets but when we have predicaments especially crude oil crash then labour will be called upon, let us see how we can rescue the economy. I think it is high time everybody bear their fathers’ name.”