By Anayo Onukwugha Port Harcourt Chairman of Ikwerre local government area of Rivers State, Hon. Samuel Nwanosike, has raised the alarm over threats by illegal oil bunkerers who were recently displaced from the area. Nwanosike disclosed this at Isiokpo, headquarters of the local government council while conducting officials of the Rivers State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) on tour of projects executed by his administration in the area. He stated that the council, in collaboration with the Shell Petroleum Development Company Limited (SPDC) and security agencies located and destroyed an illegal refinery worth over N250million in one of the villages at Isiokpo. The LG Chairman said: “Initially, Shell did not agree with us that there high pressure pipeline that passed through Isiokpo had been tampered with by illegal bunkerers. We convince them after we did an overly over the area and saw the illegal bunkerers. “We mobilised the security forces and raised the area. We destroy an illegal refinery worth over N250million which was being operated in the area. Sometimes, I wonder how people will spend some much amount of money to the detriment of their own people’s health. “We are happy that we have blocked illegal bunkerers in Ikwerre local government area. Even though, we have been receiving threats from them but we are not perturbed at all.” Nwanosike stated that one of the major achievements of his administration was the eradication of insecurity in the 13 communities that make up the local government area. He said: “Today, our farmlands are safe, out mothers are going to their farms, out hunters are no going into the bush to hunt. The era of having civilian generals has gone. The era of flogging our chiefs and raping our women has gone. “We have taken back our communities from hoodlums. With the help of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, our communities are now safe and investors have started coming to our local government area.” Speaking during the tour, NUJ Chairman in Rivers State, Stanley Job Stanley, said the inspection tour was part of the mandate of the union to hold all tiers of government accountable for the people. Stanley stated that journalists in the state were impressed with the achievements of the council Chairman within two years in office.