It’s true that in Nigeria, people always politicise and bring ethnicity cum religious colorations to virtually everything, certainly not for the good of the people or the society, but to simply massage someone’s ego or act on an orchestrated script designed for selfish interests. In every saner society and for every mind, sometimes it isn’t good to respond to every unsubstantiated claim, criticisms and outright lies. Because, not only glorifying the bankrolled script actors are the problem, but the time to be spent responding to the cooked lies too is so precious to be wasted. Nonetheless, some issues needed to be addressed to avoid misinformation and misrepresentation of facts that would possibly mislead the general public. Of recent, there have been wasting of energy on the appointment of the revered Justice Mu’azu Abdulkadir Pindiga as the acting Chief Judge of Gombe State and subsequently recommending him to be the substantive CJ of the state as if there was any breach of constitution in doing that. From the date of his appointment till date, the Acting Chief Judge, Justice Mu’azu Pindiga has been petitioned against over six times and there have been sponsored media propaganda against his emergence Fortunately, the judiciary is one place where things are done in accordance with law and order, not the usual way of court corners as it is the practice locally. Of course, there wasn’t any constitutional violation or denial of Justice Beatrice Iliya’s right as alleged recently through media hype. To Justice Beatrice, she is quite knowledgeable of all the constitutional provisions and legal rudiments concerning the appointment of the Chief Judge of a state, so she would not in any way be misled into any kind of frivolities as far as this issue is concerned generally. But a few desperate politicians are trying to make a mole out ofa non-existing hole. For the avoidance of doubt and to educate those who do not know what it takes to appoint the Chief Justice of a state, so that they are not misled on both religious and ethnic manoeuvres. Section (271) sub-section (1) states that “the appointment of a person to the office of Chief Judge of a state shall be made by the governor a state on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council (NJC) and subject to the confirmation of the appointment by the House of Assembly of the state”. Equally, sub-section (3) also states that, “a person shall not be qualified to hold office of a judge of a High Court of a state unless he is qualified to practice as a legal practitioner in Nigeria and has been so qualified for a period of not less than 10 years”. In all of these provisions, there was silence on the question of seniority. Again, the issue of seniority is one of the lousy grounds people are banding baseless allegations about. And to dispel the baseless argument, the duo of Justices Mu’azu Abdulkadir Pindiga and Beatrice Iliya were appointed High Court judges and sworn in the same day. Justices Mu’azu Pindiga, Adamu Jauro, Beatrice Iliya, Joseph A. Awak, Ibrahim Muhammed were appointed as High Court judges of Gombe State on January 28, and sworn-in on February 19, 1999. So, where does this imaginary seniority come up from? Justice Beatrice isn’t Justice Mu’azu Pindiga’s senior. Let the two of them present their letters of appointments as High Court judges to the NJC. This is not to say that Justice Iliya is not qualified, but the governor only exercised his prerogative. And that is all. So, why all the needless noise about the so-called seniority? Those going about trying to mislead the general public are unnecessarily trying to cause confusion for selfish interest. It would not pay them, as they would not succeed, because both Justices are too learned to buy into their gimmicks. Desperation has plunged them on a wrong track of argument as they got it so wrong and acted in a most embarrassing way. Categorically, the constitution did not emphasise on the most senior even if the person is Christopher Safara Williams, the first lawyer in Nigeria. Any lawyer or judge who has qualified to be appointed as High Court judge can be appointed; and Justice Pindiga is a brilliant lawyer who was called to the Bar in March 1988. By all definitions and legal interpretations, the appointment of the Chief Judge of a state, is the prerogative of the state governor and in fairness to Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, it was the same power he had enjoyed as the governor by appointing Justice Beatrice as the Acting Chief Judge of the state he equally used in appointing Justice Mu’azu Pindiga in the same capacity after the expiration of her appointed term. Hence, he did not in any way act arbitrarily because he has the choice to appoint whoever he deemed fit as seniority, gender, religion and ethnicity aren’t in anyway, prerequisites for such appointment. On the other way, the 10 years’ of experience on the appointment of the High Court judges which is the constitutional requirements has never been defied. In fact, in experience which is an added advantage, there’s no way one can match that of Justice Pindiga with Justice Iliya as the former is by far ahead of the later. Justice Beatrice was from the state Ministry of Justice and not the judiciary, so it’s not wrong if the Gombe State Judiciary Commission recommends Justice Pindiga who has been in the judiciary since the era of old Bauchi State. He was the acting chief registrar for one year and later appointed as the substantive deputy chief registrar. He was also one of the finest officers of the state High Court. In fact, it’s good and justifiable for the state Judicial Service Commission to appoint Justice Pindiga being the pioneer acting chief registrar when the state was created in 1996 where he later became the deputy chief registrar of the state High Court. Justice Pindiga’s wealth of experience is unbeatable. In the old Bauchi State, he has served in a various capacity; judge of Federal Road Safety Commission, judge of Rape Tribunal and he was the first to open the Tafawa Balewa Chief Magistrate Court, among others. In Gombe State, he was the chairman of Environmental Sanitation Committee. Equally, one of the NJC’s guidelines, allows for a geographical spread when it comes to appointment and the former CJ who has spent 20 years was from the southern part of the state and it’s therefore not out of place for the present administration to appoint the next CJ from either central where Justice Mu’azu came from or northern zone. On the FIDA’s gender prejudice, where were they when Justice Aliyu was removed in Bauchi State and a woman, Justice Rabi was brought in? No one has complained on the gender here. The milestone recorded by Justice Pindiga during his acting capacity has shown that he’s the right man for the job. His effort led to the smooth commissioning and subsequent take-off of the Court of Appeal in Gombe. To this end, it’s pertinent to call on all the relevant authorities and general public to disregard the flimsy claims and criticisms going on in the state and probably beyond the shores of the state. Khamaluddeen writes from Gombe.