By Simon Musa Reef The social and a section of mainstream media are throbbing with commentaries on the cheeky and irreverent video posted by Ifedayo Olarinde, popularly known as Daddy Freeze, casting aspersion on the Founder of the Living Faith Church Worldwide, also known as Winners chapel, Bishop David Oyedepo. When loathsome characters unleash disrespect on men upon whom God’s blessings have been demonstrated beyond doubt, the descent into a season of anomie by these critics may commence sooner than they think. No one can dispute the irrevocable position attained by the respected Bishop in the realm of Christendom. The story of Bishop Oyedepo is the miraculous story of a triumphing mind blessed by divine powers who rose above the storms of impossibilities to be where he is today. Unlike the stories of others, including Daddy Freeze, whose journey from birth has been largely unknown, his rise to prominence has been enmeshed in unsavory allegations of controversies and needless scandals that have remained hallmarks of his career. Bishop Oyedepo is one of God’s great generals engaged in transforming lives of not only in Nigerian citizens but the world. He remains an inspiration for many and his many contributions to the development of humanity has been tremendous. Compared with what this rude character called Daddy Freeze has achieved, Bishop Oyedepo is a million miles away from this disrespectful broadcaster called Olarinde. Daddy Freeze may call himself a Christian, but his unprovoked outburst against Bishop Oyedepo is not only a reflection of the spirit that rules him, his constant baseless criticisms of Christian ministers reveals him as a tool used by Satan to pull down the Church. While it is not necessary to repeat his satanic outburst on the respected Bishop, it must be stated here that with characters like Daddy freeze, Christendom needs not look far for the enemy. Considering the social media activism of the broadcaster, there is no denying the fact that Daddy Freeze has a pathological hatred for Christian clerics. Within a short time of less than two months, he posted video clips scolding other two prominent clerics, Pastor Chris Oyakhilome and Pastor Chris Okotie. There is no doubt that Daddy Freeze is being inspired  from the bottomless pit of hell to embark on faulty chastisement and demeaning clerics in order to lower their estimation in the eyes of the public. Unfortunately for him, like his ilk in the past, he is surely destined to fail. If he has resolved to embrace the Judas’ ministry, he should be reminded that despite the presence of Judas, the ministry of Jesus Christ was never hindered. So will it be with the founder of Winners chapel. If Bishop Oyedepo declares that Jesus Christ was not poor but rich, how pitiable is it for a airheaded, Christian, Daddy Freeze, to simply see wealth from the point of cash and properties. In the eyes of Daddy Freeze and his cohorts, those who profess Christ should be dressed in rags in order to display their adherence to Christ’s teachings. Lest the broadcaster be carried away with the number of followers on his twitter and other social media accounts, Bishop Oyedepo’s reputation cannot be reduced by the posting of an insolent mind who thrives in spreading controversies to attract wider readership and audience. In this world that we are today, the insolent critic who primes in pulling down pastors should note that he does not have the capacity to lower the estimation of Bishop Oyedepo before the public. Yes, the bleaching Daddy Freeze may be angry with Bishop Oyedepo’s amazing footprints that have encouraged millions to tread upon. The acquisition of a private jet by the Bishop may have motivated him to unleash unjustifiable venom on the Man of God who has contributed to our nation’s development. What he has achieved for Nigerians, a millions of Daddy Freeze cannot, even if they are to be reincarnated a hundred times. It is unfortunate that the broadcaster has deployed himself as a willing tool for the devil to advance falsehood. If he thinks that castigating Bishop Oyedepo will bring him the popularity he so much craves, let him be aware that turning himself into attack dog against the Church is perilous. The abysmal end for people who stood against the Church and their leaders is a clear fact that the gates of hell can never stand against the Lord’s anointed. It is ridiculous that critics who should direct their searchlight on the failure of the Nigerian system are foolishly directing their attention on leaders of churches who are identifying with suffering citizens. The founder of Winners chapel and many other church leaders should be further spared of the annoying ignorance of Daddy Freeze who, in the first place, is not qualified to comment on issues relating to Christianity. Having failed in his first marriage, his display of crass witlessness on the teachings of Christ on riches makes him least qualified to attack Bishop Oyedepo whose footprints are visible in many areas of national endeavours, especially raising a new generation of leaders for Nigeria. The misplaced enthusiasm of scolding achieving clerics by Daddy Freeze can be deployed  in demanding accountability from Nigerian leaders who have continued to waste whopping revenues generated from oil and other sectors. There seems to be nothing working in the country as education and healthcare delivery, among other critical sectors, have taken a deep plunge down the precipice of frightening unpredictability. What is holding the unity of this country today is the faithful prayers of religious leaders like Bishop Oyedepo who are not only given hope for distressed citizens for a bright future, but also providing services in the absence of a coordinated national and state leaderships. What clerics like Bishop Oyedepo need now is not disrespectful condemnations but encouraging commendations. Daddy Freeze needs not fear for any harm to come to his way, following the justifiable reaction of Pastor David Ibiyeomie. Men of God do not employ physical powers to deal with their opponents; they call on divine powers to enter into judgement with their conscienceless traducers. What the broadcaster should fear the most is the judgement of God for his insolence. When foolish men unleash unguarded words against men who have been blessed by God, their end may be catastrophic. For those who take delight in chastising men of God with the sole aim of shaming them before the public; they should note that it’s futile to fight a man upon whom the blessings of God have been manifested. Let me remind Daddy Freeze of the encounter of Prophet Elisha with some children who were irreverent to him as illustrated in 2nd Kings 2: 23-24: “And he went up from thence unto Bethel: and as he was going up by the way, there came forth little children out of the city, and mocked him, and said unto him, Go up, thou bald head; go up, thou bald head. “And he turned back, and looked on them, and cursed them in the name of the LORD. And there came forth two she bears out of the wood, and tare forty and two children of them”. For Daddy Freeze, he has put himself on a judgement path. What he needs now is to crawl back and seek for mercies.  When the Angel of judgement shall begin his work, people will understand that the long suffering of the divine powers does not amount to allowing impudent people escape from the judgement of God. I fear for Daddy Freeze as the divine powers may speak sooner than later. Enough of these unprovoked attacks on clerics used by God to lighten the burden of living for Nigerians.