The Minister of Youth and Sports Development Minister, Sunday Dare has lauded Total E&P Nigeria Limited for its commitment towards the development of basketball as well as Nigerian youths. Speaking in Lagos yesterday, during the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) and Total E&P Nigeria limited, Dare said he was impressed by the support of the company and urged other companies and individuals to emulate Total. “The signing of this MOU demonstrates the goodwill and corporate social responsibility of Total E&P Nigeria in identifying with basketball development in our country. I sincerely thank the management of Total E&P Nigeria for its sponsorship of the Nigeria’s national division 1&2 men’s basketball leagues, which indicates a clear commitment in the development of basketball in Nigeria,” he said.
He commended Engr Ahmadu Musa Kida-led board of NBBF for making Nigeria proud with great achievements at both national and international levels.
“I must commend the board of the Nigerian Basketball Federation for putting Nigeria as a leading basketball nation in Africa and showing commitment towards bringing out the best in the players and also ensuring some level of consistency in their international performance”. “I urge the board to bring more laurels to Nigeria because for the first time in the history of basketball, Nigeria qualified in both the male and female national teams for the forthcoming Olympic Games scheduled to hold in Japan next year.  I’m confident that Nigeria will do well at the Olympics next year.” Speaking at the event, the managing director of Total E&P Nigeria, Mr. Mike Sangster said the company is committed to basketball and youth development in Nigeria, hence the sponsorship of national leagues. He announced a total of N150 million for five years’ sponsorship of Nigeria’s national division 1&2 men’s basketball leagues. On his part, Ahmadu Musa Kida thanked Total for their unrelenting support to the game of basketball in the country.
“Your support has put us on the right pedestal to get our players and technical crew in the right place. You have really removed a lot of burden from the federations through your relentless efforts to reposition sports” He assured that the sponsorship would outlive his tenure. “Whether I win the next election or not, this sponsorship will be completely handed over to whoever becomes the next president of the Nigeria Basketball Federation. This is not about me or anyone, but the total development of Nigeria’s basketball and our youths.” 