The reconciliatory moves within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State is generating a lot of intrigues, ADEBAYO WAHEED, writes. The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State started before the 2015 general election with the emergence of divergent views on the conduct of its congresses and local government elections. As a result, many of the aggrieved party members were denied the opportunity of participating in the electoral processes. While several aspirants were unable to purchase forms from the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC), other aspirants were disqualified. Initially, a crisis over the constitution of the state executive council headed by Chief Akin Oke raged. Due to the lingering crisis and fears that it might affect its chances at the poll, the national headquarters of the party then set up a committee with the aim to finding a lasting solution to the crisis. The committee members met with the two camps in Ibadan that is, the aggrieved and those who were considered to be loyalists of the then governor. At the end of the day, the issues were resolved in favour of the governor while the aggrieved members were left with no option than to decamp to various political parties including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) being funded by former governor, Senator Rasheed Ladoja and ADC founded by former President Olusegun Obasanjo among others. Both the congresses and the local government election  held with perceived loyalists to the then governor  winning  most of the seats,  while the aggrieved members lost woefully. Their grouse was that Ajimobi’s local government chairmen did not purchase OYSIEC forms, while opposition candidates were barred from purchasing forms that will enable them to participate in the local government election. As a result of their defection to various political parties and fearing that they might not be able to wrestle political power from the APC which has been saddled with ruling the state for two-term running, and also the issue of federal might, a deal was struck with the sole aim of defeating the party at the poll. The deal was a political coalition against the APC and his candidate, Chief Abdulwaheed Adebayo Adelabu. All the opposition parties came together and presented a candidate for the governorship election. The governorship candidate of the PDP, Engineer Oluwaseyi Abiodun Makinde was presented as the coalition candidate and defeated the ruling APC candidate. Though, there was a legal firework up to the Apex Court, the Supreme Court of Nigeria, which gave the final judgment and upheld the election of Governor Makinde. The coalition got the governorship seat while APC has the majority representation at the National Assembly while the winning party has the majority at the state House of Assembly. Evidently, APC’s internal crisis was majorly responsible for its defeat even though it was no without other factors, analysts aver. Aware of this scenario, the APC national caretaker committee, chaired by Governor Mai Bala Buni of Yobe State, had expanded the mandate of its national reconciliation committee to include the resolution of the crisis facing the party in Oyo State. The APC in Oyo state had been ridden with crisis since the disputed party congress of May 2018 which produced the incumbent executive committees of the party at all ward, local government, and state levels. However, before his demise, the state party leader who was later appointed deputy national chairman of the APC and later acting national chairman, Ajimobi made efforts to reconcile all aggrieved members as part of the preparation for the party’s return to the Agodi Government House in 2023. To achieve this, the late former governor had put in place a reconciliatory committee headed by a former local government chairman, former deputy governor and governor, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala. However, Alao-Akala’s role in the process was opposed mainly from some of the aggrieved members who believed that he does not have what it takes to reconcile members and prepare the party for future elections. The aggrieved members also accused him of coming to hijack the party’s structure for selfish interest probably before returning to the PDP. Responding, Alao-Akala denied having the intention of hijacking the party or becoming its leader, adding that there was nothing left to take from the politics of the state than to ensure that the party was repositioned to win future elections. He disclosed that Ajimobi had given him a mandate of reconciling the aggrieved members and repositioning the party for the 2023 general election and ensure its victory at the polls. However, the reconciliation team seems to have started work as representatives of groups expressed issues agitating their minds at the recently held reconciliation meeting in Ibadan. Despite the fact that some groups opined that the executive of the party as presently constituted should be dissolved, former Governor Alao-Akala declared that the committee lacked such power. Meanwhile, a group within the APC, the APC Core Progressives Forum stated that the reconciliation meeting was “suspect” and should be disregarded by the national secretariat of the party, as none of the known APC leaders and aggrieved people were in attendance. In a statement signed by its chairman, Pastor Olayemi Emmanuel, the group said over 95 percent of the attendees at the meeting were strangers to the progressive family and those mainly jostling for positions and undue political relevance without any progressive antecedents. The group disclosed that the intention of the meeting made up mainly of ultra-conservative politicians was to hijack the structures of the party with the aim of foisting one of them as the leader of the APC in Oyo State in order to hand over the party back to the People’s Democratic Party where they all came from in 2023. Alao-Akala’s leadership of the reconciliation process, however, got a boost when the lawmaker representing Ogo-Oluwa/Surulere federal constituency, Hon. Olusegun Odebunmi expressed confidence in Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala-led Oyo APC Reconciliation Committee. The federal lawmaker who is also a member of the reconciliation committee, in a chat with journalists said “People should jettison the claim that APC members are defecting to the PDP. “I can say unequivocally that a lot of PDP members had defected to the APC in my constituency, but I won’t publicise it because we have a long way to go in our strategies.” Debunking the claim in some quarters that the death of a former governor of the state, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, had left leadership vacuum in the party, Odebunmi said. “The APC, in the state, does have a single leader. We had a team of leaders led by Senator Abiola Ajimobi and now that he is no more, other leaders will step in. “I can tell you that legacy left by Ajimobi will be taken over and we will be led to victory in 2023. Our mission is to recapture Oyo State and we are in advanced stage in the responsibility we are saddled with. “People should know the most senior in any family and the same thing goes to political party like ours,” he said. Odebunmi, chairman of the House of Representatives committee on information, national orientation, ethics and values, therefore, stated that the reconciliation committee, led by  Alao-Akala, would put right measures of reconciling all the tendencies and aggrieved groups with a view to recapturing the state in 2023. Giving recommendations on how to restructure and to restore the party’s lost glory, a former commissioner and governorship aspirant in 2015 election, Dr. Azeez Adeduntan, argued that constitution of the party in terms of membership should be followed, adding, “Where a victor emerges from a free, fair and credible primary, there should not be a winner takes all. (i.e both parties involved should be able to work together for the success of the party not for individual interest. “Party must recognise the losers after electoral success with appointments, unless declined by the losers. With the above submissions, APC will have a motivated party membership that is ready and capable of winning elections”, Adeduntan said. Speaking on the crisis, commissioner representing Oyo State at the Federal Character Commission (FCC), Prof. Niyi Olowofela called on aggrieved members to allow the Alao-Akala led reconciliation committee to resolve the crises. He also appealed to them to remain calm and allow the resolution of the crisis rocking the party as well as to put their differences aside and unite. He recalled that before the demise of late Governor Abiola Ajimobi, he preached passionately for peace to reign in the party and to achieve that he tasked Chief Akala to lead the reconciliation committee. Olowofela who disclosed  that he was aware of the terms of reference, opined  that  former Governor Akala as a seasoned and experienced  politician is making frantic efforts to reconcile all groups with divergent views, adding that the committee had started on a good note. “I can assure you, other aggrieved stakeholders would be reached”, he said.