Richard Ndoma, Calabar A chieftain of Peoples Democratic Party PDP and Chairman Davandy Finance, Chief Asuquo Ekpeyong has eulogized the re-elected Governor of Edo state, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, over his victory at September 19, guber polls stressing that Obaseki’s victory wasn’t any surprise to him and other party stalwarts saying that he knew that Obaseki was going to emerged victorious in the contest. Ekpeyong made the remarks during Gov. Obaseki’s thank you visit to Calabar where he had played host to the Edo state Governor re-elect. The PDP chieftain who also doubles as Chairman Davandy Finance lauded Gov. Obaseki over the victory that he achieved in tbe polls stressing that as an individual who is conversant with political development in the South South zone, he was so sure that despite the hurdles and tribulations that confronted the Governor elect, in Edo state, he was quite sure that Obaseki was coasting to victory at the end of the day. In his words, the Chieftain of the PDP said, “Your victory at the polls was no surprise to me as you have shown Edo people what great stuff you are made of within the first four years of your administration.
“It is natural that you would be re-elected by your people to complete what you started upon assumption into office as governor of the state. He said. Ekpenyong extolled the Governor’s contributions towards economic growth the nation stressing that his wealth of experience in the financial sector has immensely helped him managed the economy of Edo state. In his words, “Governor Obaseki and I, are good friends having served in various committees together. Most notably was the committee set up by the federal government to review the private sector pension reforms which we all enjoy now”, In his earlier remarks, Godwin Obaseki thanked Chief Ekpenyong for the hospitality he accorded him and his entourage, stressing that he would love to draw from chief Ekpenyong’s wealth of experience in order to over come the challenges ahead. “Let me thank you immensely for this uncommon show of love and felicitations. When I got your call that you wanted to host us today, I had no hesitation based on our long standing friendship. “As I embark on the next four years of my administration , experience such as yours will be vital in guiding me through these next four years” Obaseki said.