The Federal Government has rscheduled the meeting between its team and the leadership of the organised labour, comprising the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) to discuss the economy, to Tues- day next week. Deputy director, Press and Pub- lic Relations, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Charles Akpan confirmed the development in a text message on Saturday. The government stated that the meeting would now hold at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The message reads: “The meet- ing has been rescheduled to Tuesday, 15th September at 10am. Venue is Banquet Hall of Presidential Villa. This is to accommodate all participants.” LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige has an- nounced on Friday that a government team would meet with NLC and TUC as well as other CSOs to discuss recent increase in electric- ity tariff and petrol price on Saturday. Ngige stated that the meeting, called on behalf of President Mu- hammadu Buhari, would provide the government team an opportunity to open its books to organised labour and explain why it took recent decisions. But in the message by Akpan, the government noted that it became inevitable to reschedule the meeting since the leadership of or- ganised labour and other civil so- ciety organisations were not likely to be available in one fold. Meanwhile, the NLC president, Ayuba Wabba said the organised labour will soon come out with a position on the recent increas- es in prices of various essential commodities, including fuel and electricity. Wabba, was speaking to journal- ists in reaction to the increases in the prices of petrol and electric ty in Lagos. Wabba, said the organised la- bour would not protest until the Central Working Committee (CWC) met and agreed on appropriate action. “Labour takes one battle at a time; it does not make announce- ment without backing its action,” the labour leader said. He noted that the NLC has remained consistent on neo-liberal policies, and would take appropri- ate action in respect of the increas- es in order to achieve desired result. He also said it was high time Nigeria started refining products