The Globe Nigeria in partnership with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning have called for proper accounting for the nation’s natural resources. The duo while speaking yesterday, during a two-day training workshop held in Abuja for Federal Ministries Department And Agencies (MDAs) on “Mainstreaming Natural Capital Accounting into Nigeria’s National Development” said such efforts will grow the country’s economy and generate more revenue to the government. In his opening remarks, the national coordinator, Global Legislators Organisation for a Balanced Environment (GLOBE, Nigeria) Mr Nnaemeka Oruh, said that Nigeria could also apply the principles of natural capital accounting to environmental protection and conservation. He said: “In addition, the process can subsequently inform government, corporate and consumer decision as each relates to the use or consumption of natural resources and land. “While we are trying to develop our Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), it is important that we apply the principles of natural capital accounting to assist Nigeria’s development plan.” Oruh said the concerted effort was to ensure that the government pays attention to environmental issues and ensure proper accountability which is the bedrock of the economy. “The country’s economy cannot survive without the environment; what we have been doing is taking from the environment without curtailing the plundering of the environment. “We should take into consideration that when you take you should do something to replenish,’’ Oruh said. Also, the acting director of economic growth, Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Aso Vakporaye, said that the “key essence of this exercise is to ensure that people understand the importance of natural resources as well as its utilization.” “If we follow this zeal that the ministry is showing and all the MDAs that are supposed to be stakeholders follows so much income will come and we will also fulfill the aspect of food security that will feed Nigeria and we can also put things together and we can be exporting these things.” On his part, the chief executive officer, Natural Eco Capital, Dr Eugine Itua, said the significance of the programme was to seek efforts to streamline environmental issues into the nation’s national plan. “We are training relevant MDAs at the federal level and we have been working on this with the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. “A system that does not take account of all that it executes will not get its GDP right. So we are here today to build the capacity of MDA’s so that Nigeria can be a better place.