Nigeria’s former minister of Finance and candidate in the forthcoming election for the director-general of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, has made the advance list of contestants for the global position, as three contestants are screened out of the race. The WTO announced on its website yesterday that it came up with the list of five after consultations with Ambassador Walker, Ambassador Dacio Castillo of Honduras and Ambassador Harald Aspelund of Iceland. WTO members indicated that the
five candidates who should advance are Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala of Nigeria, Yoo Myung-hee of the Republic of Korea, Amina C Mohamed of Kenya, Mohammad Maziad Al-Tuwaijri of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Liam Fox of the United Kingdom.
“Throughout the six days of consultations it was clear to us that the entire membership is both
committed to and fully engaged in this process,” said Amb Walker, who expressed his gratitude to all the candidates, including those who will not advance further. Members consider all (the candidates) highly qualified and respected individuals,” the organisation said in the information that was announced yesterday.
Amb Walker said the second phase of consultations will begin on September 24 and run until October 6.
WTO also plans to reduce the contestants to two final candidates in the coming weeks.
The ultimate objective of the measures being taken by the Geneva based body and clearly defined process is to secure a consensus decision by members on the next Director-General.
In the statement on its website, WTO said the General Council agreed on July 31 that there would be three stages of consultations held over a two-month period commencing 7 September.
It said, during these two months the number of candidates would be reduced from eight to five and then two before a consensus is reached on which of the candidates becomes the WTO’s 7th Director-General. In trimming the roster of candidates from eight to five, WTO members have concluded the first of these consultative stages.
The consultation process taken by facilitators has been set by guidelines established by the General Council in a 2002 decision.
According to these guidelines, the key consideration in determining which candidate is best poised to achieve consensus is the “breadth of support” each candidate receives from the members.