The Katsina State government has said that it has so far spent over N70.9 billion  for the payment of  pension and gra-tuity of retirees in the state.
The state Head of Civil Service, Idris Tune, who disclosed while  briefing news men, said from inception till date, the APC administration  had paid over N70.9 billion as pension and gratuity to workers in the state, local governments and local education authorities.
Giving a breakdown, Tune revealed that over N18.9 billion was paid as pension from June 2015 to August, 2020, stress-ing that over N10.6 billion was paid as gratuity in the same period in the state civil service.
He announced that N24 billion was paid as pension to local governments and local education authorities from June 2015 to August 2020, adding that over N17.3 billion was paid as gratuity to workers in the local governments and local education authorities in the state.
He also announced that the Bill on the contributory pension scheme is now being handled by the state House of As-sembly and would soon be sent to the committe  on public hearing.
Tune explained that when the bill is passed into law, both government and workers will contribute monthly while workers will be receiving lump sum gratuity and pension like what is obtained in the current system, as government will not allow pension fund administrators to  determine how to pay retired civil servants their hard earned retirement benefits.
On the renovation of government quarters, the state Head of service revealed that N251.6 million was spent of 343 government houses executed in phases.
He added that the state government had recently entered into  partnership with some private developers to provide affordable houses to workers in the state.
According to him, a Memorandum of Understanding has been signed with some of the developers for the provision of the houses.
The Head of Civil Service further said that from inception to date, 3,667 staff were recruited as a replacement to those who left the service in Ministries, Departments and Agencies-MDAs.
He said over N301 million was spent in training and retraining of civil servants through in service, seminars, workshops and conferences from 2015 to date.
Alhaji Idris Tune revealed that over N450.6 million was disbursed as
refurbishing loans to 4,878 civil servants in the state by the Masari-led administration in the state from 2015 to date. He said other welfare packages include provision of medical assistance to Civil Servants and their families, adding that the assistance was in local and foreign treatments. On staff promotion, Alhaji Idris Tune also revealed that the APC administration had considered promotion as a key mo-tivating factor, saying 2002 on grade level 13 and above have been promoted to the management level between June 2015 to April, 2020.