In furtherance of its drive to provide potable water and improve livelihoods in several rural communities across Nigeria, Notore Chemical Industries Plc has donated a 40,000 litre solar-powered integrated water project to Kangare Community in Bauchi Local Government, Bauchi State. The project is a key part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) aimed at enhancing the wellbeing of farmers and communities in which it operates in Nigeria. The company will also sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Bauchi State Government to provide farmers inputs at affordable prices in 20 local government areas of the state. Group Managing Director/GCEO of Notore, Mr. Onajite Okoloko, who was represented by the company’s Head of Government Affairs, Mr. Yakubu Abdurrahman, at the commissioning ceremony of the water project in Kangare, said: “As an active member of the Kangere farming community, Notore noted the shortage of potable drinking water as one of the major social challenges facing the community. Consequently, we decided to construct a 40,000 litre capacity solar powered water project to support the state government’s visible efforts at ameliorating the living conditions of the good people of Bauchi.” He noted that the integrated water project was meant to show the company’s support to Governor Bala Mohammed’s efforts at improving the lives of the people. According to him, “To drive home our aim of championing Africa’s green revolution, through increased farm yields, Notore has recruited over 3,600 world class extension service professionals to work hand- in-hand with farmers in almost all the 774 local government areas in the country, teaching them best farming practices.” Governor Bala Mohammed said the state government would sign an MoU with Notore to ensure farmers reap bountifully from the government’s agricultural policy. The governor said under the agreement, the state government will also ensure timely provision of extension services to farmers so as to improve their knowledge on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). He noted that the target of his administration is to increase yield and production, strengthen extension services and create wealth for the people. According to him, “Notore is so important to us because of the developing capacity of our economy. We have the best land for agriculture in Bauchi and would leverage this relationship to exploit our land assets for wealth creation. “Notore is a success story of privatization. We are grateful for your corporate social responsibility intervention with the building of an integrated water project in Kangere.” Notore’s Group Head of Commercial Services, Mr. Tijjani St. James, who led the delegation, said the company will support the state government in assisting farmers to access fertilizers at affordable prices. “Your Excellency, we are delighted to be with you today, our company is ready to work with you for farmers so they can reap the full benefit from your laudable agricultural policy.” He declared the interest of the organization to partner with the state government to improve agricultural production. Secretary to the Bauchi Local Government Area (LGA), Alhaji Sank Mohammed and District Head of Galambi, Alhaji Shehu Adamu Jumba, commended the company for its forthrightness and commitment to the wellbeing of their consumers and Nigeria’s farming communities. They expressed happiness with the robust relationship the community is enjoying with the company as well as its network of products which is visible across the state.