By Haruna Mohammed, Bauchi The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Christian Pilgrims Commission, Reverend Yakubu Pam on Monday hailed Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed of Bauchi state over inclusive governance in the State. The Executive Secretary made the commendation when he led principal officers of the Commission on an advocacy visit to the Governor at the Council Chamber, Government House Bauchi also tasked the governor to emulate Israel in the areas of farming in order to boost the State’s economy.
Pam said Israel is known globally for commercial and mechanized agriculture which serves as a major source of revenue of the country. Reverend Yakubu Pam expressed gratitude to the Governor for his support to the Commission while he was the FCT Minister and appealed to him to sustain it for the success of the Commission’s assigned responsibilities. He told Governor Bala Mohammed that the Commission was in Bauchi state for a one-day sensitisation program in preparation for the 2020 Christian pilgrimage scheduled to be conducted in December of this year. “Your Excellency, we are on a one-day sensitisation tour in preparation for the 2020 pilgrimage which by the Grace of God will take place in December, this year. We decided to visit you today, a day that was set aside as International Peace Day based on the record and what we have seen in the areas of peace and security.” “Since your assumption of office, we have seen peace, unity among the diverse ethnic groups of the state and governance at the grassroots. We decided to come and give you the honor and to tell Nigerians that there are lessons to learn from Bauchi state.” Reverend Yakubu Pam therefore thanked Governor Bala Mohammed for his generosity and described him as a pilgrim friendly Governor. Responding, the State Governor Bala Mohammed pledged continued support to the Commission in order to achieve its desired objectives. He thanked members of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Bauchi branch for their contributions to the growth and development of the state. “We are highly delighted to receive you today, Bauchi is achieving its peace initiative with the support of all the people of the state and support of the Commission.” “The commission definitely will go to a higher position because of the dynamic leadership of the new Executive Secretary.” Governor Mohammed said the people of Bauchi are determined to live with one another peacefully irrespective of their religious differences. 