Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL), operator of the joint venture between the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and CNL (NNPC/CNL JV), has donated a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) labora-tory facility to Warri Central Hospital to support the fight against COVID-19 pandemic  in Delta State.
Other items donated along with the machine included test kits, medical consumables, four  air condi-tioners, refrigerators and a 50-KVA soundproof generating set as well as the renovation of the four-bedroom laboratory building provided by the Delta State government.
The Company also handed over a well-equipped Surgical theatre and Consulting rooms complex which it  built and equipped, including a 60kva generator,  to the Ekpan General Hospital, Uvwie Local Gov-ernment Area of Delta State.
“These donations are part of the overall contributions of CNL to the fight against COVID-19 and the improvement of Medicare delivery in Delta State.” Said Esimaje Brikinn, general manager, Policy, Gov-ernment and Public Affairs. “We are happy that our partnership with Delta State has led to improve-ments in the people’s quality of life through our investments in Education, Health and Social Infra-structure and the sponsorship of manpower development programs in the health and educational sec-tors.”
He thanked the Delta State government for the continued support for CNL’s operations in the state.
Director of Health Services/CEO, Delta State Hospital Management Board and representative of the Delta State commissioner for Health at the handover event, Dr Mrs. F. E. Omoraka, lauded NNPC/Chevron JV for living up to its corporate social responsibility. “We want other oil multinationals to emulate the good gesture of CNL in partnering with the state government to make life meaningful for the people of Delta state,” she said.
Dr Omaraka further thanked NNPC/Chevron JV for its earlier gift of an ambulance, a ventilator, test kits, PPEs and medical consumables as well as three buses for contact- tracing activities to the Delta state government.