By Michael Oche, The Tiv Youth Advancement Vanguard (TYAV) has commended the Nigerian Army and other security agencies for the recent killing of wanted militia, Terwase Akwaza alias “GANA” in a gun battle. The president of TYAV, Barr. Tyohemba Denen stated during a press conference in Makurdi that the people of, Benue, Taraba and Nasarawa and particularly Katsina-ala, Ukum and Logo local in Benue State will heave a sigh of relief now that the wanted militia was killed. According to him “The people of Sankera comprising of Katsina-ala, Ukum and Logo local governments of Benue State where Terwase Akwaza Alias GANA turned into his territory, where he terrorized law abiding citizens, imposed levies and taxes on the people, raped, maimed and completely obliterated the socio- economic lives of the people of the area will remain eternally grateful to the Nigerian Army and other security agencies for the killing of Gana who has caused them untold pains and sorrow.” The Tiv group further tasked the security agencies to sustain the onslaught on accomplices of the wanted militia leader within and outside the territory he operated no matter how highly placed. “We believe that Gana was the leader of gang with several members. We call on the security agencies to go after his gang members, arrest and prosecute them so that permanent peace can be restored in the area.” It would be recalled that in 2015, the Benue State Government granted amnesty to Gana and over 700 criminals, but Akwasa later abandoned the amnesty and went back to criminality when he was accused of complicity in the murder of Governor Samuel Ortom’s Special Adviser on Security, Hon. Denen Igbana. Governor Ortom declared GANA wanted and placed a bounty of 10 million and later increased it to 50 million for anyone who will give information leading to the arrest of Gana in 2017. The Tiv youths Advancement Vanguard urged the people of Benue and Nigerians to give credible intelligence and rally round the various security agencies to rid the nation of criminals. 