Yesterday was 17 years since the 13th Etsu Nupe, Alhaji (Dr) Yahaya Abubakar CFR, ascended the throne of his forebearers in Bida, the headquarters of Nupe land in Niger State. Etsu Yahaya succeeded his maternal uncle, Alhaji Umaru Sanda Ndayako, who died on September 1, 2003. The throne rotates among the three ruling houses namely Usman Zaki, Masaba and Umaru Majigi in an ordered sequence entrenched by the Emirate’s founding fathers from time immemorial.  Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar will go down in history as the longest serving Etsu Nupe from his Usman Zaki ruling house. He was not only 17 years on the throne yesterday, but also the 13th to rule the kingdom since its inception. Expectedly, the kingdom has witnessed unprecedented developments since he took the reign through various innovations which have served as benchmark through which other Emirates draw inspiration. Key among the innovations was the formation of the Nupe Foundation (Ninibo Nupe), which is one of the five-point agenda contained in the grand document of the publicity subcommittee of the movement for the actualisation of Edu State. Nupe Foundation is, therefore, a socio-cultural organisation of Nupe-speaking people of Niger, Kwara, Kogi States and the FCT as well as the diaspora with its headquarters in Bida. The foundation which came into being in 2009 has enjoyed tremendous support from all the royal fathers of Nupe land, particularly the Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar. It is aimed to, among other things, provide a platform to connect, unite and push to the global stage the affairs of Nupe people. Its affairs are directed through various advisory, non-executive and executive structures, made up of prominent sons and daughters of Kin-Nupe. One of the key activities of the foundation is the organisation of the annual Nupe Day celebration which commenced in June 26, 2009. On the 26th of June, 1896, Nupe Calvary defeated the British Army at Ogidi in present day Kogi State, thus the choice of that day. The annual event has gone a long way in fostering unity among the Nupes and providing catalyst for general development of the people. The foundation through its activities has provided an enabling environment for huge investment in agriculture, arts and crafts which are the main stay of the people of the area as well as solid minerals. More heartwarming was the revival of the lost Nupe culture and tradition through the annual Nupe Day initiative of the royal father. Another grand achievement of this initiative is the reenactment and propagation of Nupe costume (Emigun Nupe) made up of Red- great warriors, Agile, Industrious and courageous people; Green- Great Farmers and Blue -Fishermen. These colours have since been adopted by the royal fathers of Nupe land, hence its usage as means of identity for Nupe. Further benefits of the initiative is the rejuvenation of Nupe Culture and Resource Centre which houses Nupe artefacts, contemporary literature materials and history for reference purposes in research and conferences. Another milestone covered by this initiative is the composition and adoption of Nupe cultural anthem (Taki Nupe). The cultural anthem is usually sang at all the event venues of the Nupe people to remind them of who they are in order to be conscious of their goals and aspirations for an ideal Nupe land and Nigeria at large. Through His Royal Highness’ influence and moral persuasion the River Niger through Baro Port was dredged and also to his credit the port has been constructed and commissioned, even as he and other royal fathers are working tirelessly to ensure that the federal government accelerates the completion of the access road which had stalled the commencement of its operation. Under his reign also, activities leading to the discovery of crude oil are ongoing in the Bida Basin. The two most important projects and other federal government projects across Nupe land will, no doubt, spur economic activities in the area, the state and Nigeria in general.The projects will also provide job opportunities to the teeming youths within the catchment areas and therefore reduce crime rate. Still on youth empowerment, the Royal Father through Nupe Foundation’s ambitious academic agenda launched Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to provide digital infrastructure across the Nupe land launched in 2016. The foundation’s intention is to provide ICT infrastructure for educational as well as research purposes in the land. On a broader scale, the foundation also birthed the idea to create an educational fund from where it can be able to sponsor sons and daughters of Kin Nupe in science, technology and humanities courses in no distant future. It is also to his Royal Highness’ credit that many sons and daughters of the kingdom rose to prominence within the nation’s political and bureaucratic spheres. For instance, Nupe land produced two top-most security chiefs, the Inspector General of Police and the Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) as well as the deputy governor of the Nation’s apex Bank among other high profile positions. Bye and large, Etsu Yahaya Abubakar has also paid his dues adequately to the people of his immediate domain (Bida Emirate) This is through his various developmental initiatives at the home front, including expansion of the district headquarters in the Emirate from barely 25 districts with 142 village heads in 2003 to almost 46 districts with 540 village heads respectively at the moment to promote good and effective governance at the grass roots. There is also an aggressive agricultural programme across the Emirate which he is personally championing to promote food sufficiency and security. Mention must also be made of the initiative of the royal father on security of lives and property of the people. A security committee which is the semblance of the midwifed community police has been established in Bida Town and adjoining communities for security and stability of the areas. Furthermore, in order to encourage good moral conduct among its people, the Bida Emirate under the watch of Etsu Yahaya has been recognising and honouring eminent sons and daughters within and outside the Emirate with traditional titles so as to attract others to emulate them. As the ancient headquarters of the kin-Nupe celebrate the all-important anniversary celebration, Baagandozhi has every reason to be proud for restoring Nupeland to its old glory of being one of the most important political entities in the West African sub-region. –  Mohammed is Wakili Labarai Nupe 