By Anthony Ada Abraham, Over the years in Nigeria, there have been series of Reality Shows which produced stars like KCEE, Chidinma, Iyanya and many others, but the opportunity has always eluded young People Living With Disabilities (PLWD) due to the marginalization they face in many forms in the entertainment industry. Themed “Harnessing the talent inherent in person with disabilities”, the Aid Talent Hunt promised to be entertaining, educational and enlightening. In order to harness more talents in the mould of Cohbams Asuquo, Crazy legs, Yinka Ayefele and Kenny Blind, more need to be done for them to showcase their talent in the open. Speaking on this, the Executive producer, Mr Nick Bebiem stated that their gifts or talents have not been able to be harnessed and they face strict competition in the industry, doing everything to breakthrough. “It is pertinent that we have a talent hunt specifically for persons with disabilities. It will be a great sight to behold a young man with physical disability cracking ribs, or singing in a melodious voice, a blind dancing so good, a deaf who can act or sing popular song with sign language of lyrics you know he have never heard. “There are many talented persons with disabilities waiting to take the world by storm but their hopes and dreams are always dashed before they are even conceived,” he explained. As a person who is passionate about disability issues, Nick B is elated that God is about to answer the prayer of many young people with disabilities who have been so good in one art or the other but they have limited opportunity. “They are always faced with several challenges ranging from inaccessibility of public buildings and rejections they get even when they succeed to meet producers or show promoters.” Mr Bebiem also said that the Aid Talent Hunt- The first Nigerian Reality TV Show packaged exclusively for persons with disabilities to harness their potentials and talents in Entertainment is a prayer answered. “Miss Health International Foundation packaged The Aid Talent Hunt to give them a sense of belonging, there is now an opportunity for PLWDs to show the world that they too can become super stars. The AID (Ability in Disability) Talent Hunt is designed to discover, develop and promote Talents inherent person with disabilities. “A person with disability seeing the post of a portal about this Reality TV show and apply for free by making a 2 minutes’ video and her video convince the organizers,  She stand a chance in 13 weeks to have her life transformed and realize her lifelong dream of becoming a successful entertainer with great endorsement deals. “There is no doubt that The AID Talent Hunt will also enhance our overall skills needed to compete favourably with others in the entertainment industry. This talent hunt is historic as it will help to bring PLWDs to the limelight and build their self-esteem, which they are lacking in their quest of becoming super stars. It would be glorious seeing 50 contestants with disabilities being groomed and trained in an in-house camping for 13weeks to become amazing entertainers,” he concluded. 