A total sum of over N96 billion was paid to pensioners under the old defined benefit pension scheme between July 2019 and August 2020, according to the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD). PTAD also disclosed that 5,834 pensioners have been suspended from the payroll after a Bank Verification Number (BVN) Authentication exercise that was done in collaborated with Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS). However, 2,416 of those removed have been restored after undergoing positive review and validation, the pension watchdog said.
Addressing reporters on the operation of the directorate in the last one year, PTAD executive secretary, Dr Chioma Ejikeme said the sum of over N77 billion was paid as monthly pensions payments to 244,643 pensioners as at July 2020, adding that 87, 842 pensioners were paid arrears and gratuities of over N19 billion, while the sum of over N670 million was paid to 418 Next of Kins of deceased pensioners. The payments include the balance of 33 per cent arrears for the parastatal pensioners, which it said had been outstanding since 2010 and was fully paid to the pensioners and NoKs in November/December 2019. The PTAD boss announced that dead pensioners and those that are not responding to its calls for verification and other invitations will be removed from its payroll by next month. “Deceased pensioners and unresponsive pensioners on the list will be removed from the payroll from October 2020,” Dr Ejikeme said.
According to Dr Ejikeme, the directorate made payments in December 2019 as well as in the 2nd and 3rd quarters of 2020. The payments were made to pensioners to reduce the inherited liabilities from New Nigeria Newspapers, NICON Insurance, Nig-Reinsurance, Delta Steel Company, NITEL and NAHCO.
PTAD said it is working on the recovery of legacy funds and assets in the custody of 12 insurance underwriters belonging to the defunct agencies. They were previously responsible for the pension payments to federal government parastatals and the universities. The executive secretary said her plan is to wage aggressive war against pension scammers and fraudsters, recovery legacy funds and assets of defunct companies, ensure all pensioners have health insurance immediately after a thorough clean-up of the payroll. Refuting an earlier allegation that the PTAD diverted the pension funds of NAHCO pensioners, the executive secretary said the agency used rollover pension funds to pay the disengaged NAHCO staff.