By Royal Ibeh, For Nigeria to reduce the avoidable deaths caused by malnutrition, government at all levels must pay more attention to nutrition, especially in this COVID-19 era, say nutritionists. According to the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), malnutrition is a direct or underlying cause of 45 percent of all deaths of under-five children. Nutritionists, while analysing UNICEF malnutrition statistics in Nigeria, at the 3rd series Protein Challenge webinar tagged: “Empowering Women to Break the Cycle of Malnutrition in Nigeria: Reduce malnutrition, Underweight and Hunger”, said malnutrition has become a pandemic in Nigeria and anyone can be affected at anytime irrespective of age or gender. A nutritionist and member, Nutrition Society of Nigeria, Mrs Josephine Chukwunweike, therefore, called on government to make food available and affordable. She said in the wake of COVID-19 in Nigeria, the prices of food stuffs have increased tremendously, making it difficult for Nigerians to eat a balance diet. To avert the trend, Chukwunweike however called on the government to pay more attention to nutrition, by making food available and affordable, leading to meaningful development. A professor of human nutrition at the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Prof Ibiyemi Olayiwola,  said without appropriate care, malnutrition could lead to different illnesses. Olayiwola said malnutrition can have short and long term consequences on a child’s health, adding that good nutrition helps in poverty reduction, improved national economic performance and nutrition. Most Africans fail to fortify their diets, says a clinical physician, Adepeju Adeniran, adding that the importance of protein for proper growth and development, cannot be overemphasized. “Protein malnutrition manifests in the age groups differently. In children under-5, mild cases can show up as an increased propensity to infections, abnormalities in skin and eye health, poor hair development while more extreme conditions include conditions such as kwashiorkor and marasmus. “Protein Energy Malnutrition in children has also been linked to a higher risk of non-communicable diseases in adulthood,” she added. 