Tragedy of a monumental proportion occurred in Imo state as a down pour which recently took place within Owerri, the state capital and its environs has sacked over 200 residents of a community in the Owerri North council area following a landslide that occurred thereafter. The disaster which struck at the Trinity street Akwakuma also severed more than ten (10) residential building in the area and consequently trapped the residents within their premises. Expectedly, the residents of the densely populated community have raised the alarm over the surging erosion menace following incessant rainfall just as the disaster as become an impediment to free movement of vehicles and individuals. Our correspondent who visited the community reports that two storey buildings were completely cut off with a possible escape route for the occupants. There is thick apprehension that the buildings might carve in if the surging erosion which had developed gullies is not controlled. One of the victims and a lecturer of Mass Communication Federal Polytechnic Nekede, Mr. Emma Ogu said that the for three consecutive days he and his family along with some other residents were trapped by the landslide. Ogu who estimated the depth of the gully caused by the slide at 10 feet added that “we need urgent attention from the state government to avert further calamity”. Reacting to the incident, the commissioner for Environment Dr. Ike Njoku said that his ministry had visited the area, so as to ascertain the level of damage and government interventionist measures. He advised resident of the community to always check the level of water flow in the area. In his words, “It is a big problem to the state. This is because there are more than 300 erosion sites in Imo”. According to the Commissioner, “we have taken the matter to the state government who said that we should state the area as among those requiring urgent attention in the state”. Speaking with a resident Mr Ezenwa Nwadike, he informed that the erosion became worst this year despite efforts made by landlords of the buildings and the neighborhood association. Nwadike stated that, even after sinking over 1.5M and mounting pillars to control and combat The menace, all proved abortive as the pillars and ongoing construction work got washed out by the menacing flood. He appealed to the government of Imo state and other relevant agencies to expedite action and ameliorate the sufferings of people living around the area, even as palliatives done to reduce the damage has proven abortive. Speaking also, a care taker of a hotel, High Tower, in area, Mr Boniface Anyaogu who said the erosion has been giving people living in the area restless concern, informed that, despite a schedule visit of the commissioner for Environment few months ago, nothing has been done on the said site. He expressed fear that if nothing is done as fast as possible, residents risk loss of lives and properties. “The erosion is so vicious that it is trying to eject people from their homes and might destroy lives and properties”. “People cannot come out again, they either go through the backyard some of them have vehicles but they cannot drive in and out of their various compounds”, he said. 