The quality of every good journalist is that they are very observant and possess strong analytical skills to assess a situation if there is something more to it. Credibility of every story written by a journalist is key and, sound judgment requires verification of source of information before writing a story. In other words, to be a sound journalist, you must possess a solid ethical core and integrity. Journalists must have their audience’s trust in order to succeed. Fairness, objectivity and honesty are three fac-tors that need to be built into every story a journalist writes.
Very recently, a national newspaper published a story with the title: “N712 Billion Looted By 3 Amnesty Coordinators –Presidential Panel”. This story went viral and unsuspected members of the public con-sumed it hook, line and sinker. The report came after President Muhammadu Buhari recently announced the removal of Prof Charles Dokubo, the former Coordinator of the Programme who was suspended for an alleged financial mis-management and announced the appointment of a new coordinator, Col. Milland Dixion Dikio (rtd.) as the Interim Administrator of the programme. The reporter threw up what could be best be described as unprofessional and unethical journalism. In the said report, he had quoted a document he claimed to have sighted from the NSA’s office that de-spite all that have been allocated to the PAP since inception, “there are still a total number of 29,755 ex-militants who still rely on monthly stipends of N65,000.00 as means of livelihood”. “This suggests a failure of the programme to realise its set objectives and contradicts the claims by past Coordinators of the PAP that as at 2018 a total number of 21,179 ex-militants has graduated from Nigerian and foreign universities out of the 30,000 ex-militants captured in the original database dur-ing the disarmament phase”. What this suggests is that only 245 legitimate ex-agitators have been trained out of 30,000 document-ed from the inception of the programme. The reporter’s lack of foresight was again displayed when on the contrary, he reported that between 2011-2015 only 122 out of 300 ex-agitators received training to become pilots and 72 others for Maritime, Electrical, Mechanical, Welding and ICI training. The same writer from the same document he quoted wrote that tuition fees for 1,456 students under scholar-ship of the PAP were inflated.
This alone has shown that he failed to use his gumption to check the said panel’s report said to have emanated from the office of the NSA or the report was based on his limited knowledge about the Pres-idential Amnesty Programme, perhaps someone out to blow hot when there was clearly no need for. While the writer was making these claims, he forgot that PAP was not designed alone for beneficiaries students in higher institutions. The programme also accommodates skills acquisition in other sphere of life, which includes artisanship and other trades like tailoring, hairdressing, sports, automobile fabrica-tion and a host of others as part of the PAP mandate to facilitate the reintegration of beneficiaries into the society.
As if that was not enough, the writer yet again displayed what was clearly seen as bias when he limited his report to three out of five persons that had headed the programme (PAP) since inception namely; Kingsley Kuku, (January 2011 – May 2015); Gen. Paul Boroh (retd) (28 July 2015 – 13 March 2018); and Prof. Charles Dokubo (28 July 2015 – 13 March 2018) where he alleged that these persons looted N712billion, which was supposedly the entire allocation for the Programme since inception. While this is not to make case for anyone as it is the duty of the people of the region to hold their leaders accountable if the programme has really failed as claimed by the report, it’s to look at the cat-egories of Programme in PAP, particularly under those who put it in shape. Again for the record, the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) was set up in 2009 by late President Umar Yar’Adua as part of federal government commitment to bring peace, security, stability and to end the age- long agitation of the people of oil rich Niger Delta region. The programme went through different phases; from Disarmament to Demobilization and then Rein-tegration, which of course set the roadmap for the sustainable peace enjoyed in the region today.
During these phases, the Programme captured 30,000 ex-agitators who layed down arms from the various oil producing states in the region  and became beneficiaries of PAP. Since inception, the programme had witnessed  adminstrative changes with no less than six heads/coordinators, which are: Godwin Abe who served as Chairman of the Programme from 2009 to 2010. Timi Alaibe, Kingsley Kuku 2011-2015, Brig Gen Paul Boroh, 2015-2018 and Prof Charles Dokubo, 2018-2020 and now Col. Milland Dixion Dikio (rtd.).
It is also good to note that the PAP was designed in such a way to accommodate beneficiaries in differ-ent human endeavors, which include education and human development under which ex-agitators and communities affected by militancy are given higher education training. And in other category, technical skills acquisition and other form of employment to establish them for the new life they have embraced.
For instance, from 2015 to March 2018, over 90% of Amnesty students delegates schooling overseas have had their tuition fees settled and it was the same period the relative peace the region enjoys to-day was fully negotiated by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who visited the region with Gen Paul Boroh to discuss with stakeholders in the region in order to strengthen the peace in the region. This became realistic because of the collaboration between the PAP and the presidency to mitigate youth restive-ness and achieve stability in the Niger Delta region and environs. This saw the end of the incenscant threats by aggrieved militants in the region to go back to the creek. This was a brain child of the synergy between the Presidency and the then leadership of PAP under Gen. Paul Boroh. As at 2016, one hundred and twenty ex-agitators under the Presidential Amnesty Programme had graduated in various fields in Motor Manufacturing at Innoson Kiara Academy, Nnewi, Anambra State. Also in 2017 another 200 were successfully trained in Automobile Construction, Repairs and Mainte-nance. Over 100 among this number were ex-agitators, while the rest are youths from impacted com-munities.  In the first quarter of 2018, at least no less than 400 of them had graduated from the same  Academy and by this time they had constructed a 32-seater bus from the scratch. During this period, there were beneficiaries studying in 16 countries across the world and in fifteen others in Nigeria, both federal and private. Among them were certified Pilots, Air Traffic Controllers, Aircraft Maintenance Engineers, Medical Practioners, artisans, international accredited Chefs and Hospitality Managers. It is also worthy of note that the PAP is a security programme, that has greatly enhanced peace in the Niger Delta, stabilised the region and allowed for uninterrupted production of 2m barrels of oil per day.
This is against the scenario of the pre Amnesty period where at a point Nigeria was down to 500,000 barrels per day, and struggling to meet recurrent expenditure. It is due to the nature of the pro-gramme as rooted in the security of the region that the President placed it under the National Security Adviser. This we know is the season of politics, and some politicians from the region want to gain advantage and possibly eliminate any threat to their ambitions from Niger Delta region, but they should respect the truth and not stand  facts on their heads in their inordinate ambitions and attempt to mislead both the supposed panel and the presidency. Leaders of the region who are trusted by the President owe him a sacred duty not to mislead him for their own selfish ambitions.
Today, thousands of PAP delegates who graduated from various fields of human endeavors are out there, already integrated into the society and some are gainfully employed, while others are plying their trades in their respective locations. – Bature, a public commentator, wrote in from Benin