…As Gov Emmanuel seek stakeholders support Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel has declared education as the next sector to receive priority attention in his administration’s Completion Agenda, as he announces readiness to reopen schools in the state. The Governor made the announcement today, Saturday, 12th September, 2020 at the funeral ceremony in honour of Late Apostle (Dr.) Imaikop Enoidem, father-in-law to the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, at St. John Primary School, Ikot Ekpene Udo in Nsit Ubium Local Government Area of the state. As the state relishes results of his administration’s huge investment in the health sector over time, focus will henceforth be shifted to the education sector in furtherance the completion agenda, Governor Emmanuel said. In his words, “Overtime, we’ve concentrated a lot on healthcare. We are trying to make sure between now and December we have rounded off all we promised on healthcare. So from next year it’s going to be massive investment in education so that we can also train our people very well”. Affirming the state government’s readiness to reopen schools in the state, the State Chief Executive called on Local Government Chairmen, community leaders and Parents Teachers Associations to mobilize for the tidying up of school premises within their jurisdiction, to ensure healthy and safe environment for returning school children. “We will reopen schools very soon. In those days we had caretaker committee who took care of primary schools and secondary schools. Government did not cut grasses in schools. Local Government Chairmen can help. Villages and communities can volunteer to help. We have paid WAEC fees, given grants to schools. Don’t expect the government to come and clear the schools too. Please, each community should use this week to mobilize youths to cut the grasses as a voluntary community service to avoid snakes breeding in the school environment. The children have stayed at home for too long. I am ready to reopen schools”, the governor said. The Governor said the state government has provided a good number of masks already, but still need close to a million to ensure all pupils are kitted. He therefore urged well-meaning people in the communities to volunteer to donate facemasks for the children to enhance their safety, as pupils will not be allowed entry to schools without mask. Governor Emmanuel assured that the state government will do all that it needs to do to ensure creation of opportunities for youths in the state to get employed earn their living with prestige. He however decried the disservice done the state by the electricity distribution companies by depriving the people of the state of power, despite the effort of the state to generate power, while appealing to the youths to ensure minimization of the spate of vandalism of electricity installations in their areas. “We have generated enough power for everybody in the state to have 24 hours supply but our problem is this people called electricity distribution companies. I have said it in various platforms, I have even spoken with the Vice President about it, because all the cables you see, the transformers and all other thing are bought by the state government, but when we generate power and give to them to give to people in our communities, they refuse. So we are trying to look for solution”, Governor Emmanuel said. The governor, on behalf of the government and people of the state, condoled with Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem on the demise of his father-in-law. He described the deceased as a good family builder and urged fathers to emulate the practice of leaving child raising for the mothers and thereby breeding dysfunctional families. Preaching from Proverbs 30:7-9 on the topic, “do not Refuse me before I die”, the clergy, Prelate Isaiah Isong, said every man was born a sinner but while alive should settle their case with God before they die. He said, God is the creator and every man owes him love and honour and to love every fellow human being.