When she was first appointed Executive Secretary, Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), now Minister of State for Environment, Barr. Sharon Ikeazor said in an interview with PREMIUM TIMES that she had never heard of PTAD. “When I was told, I had to do a Google search to find out what that was,” she said. Ikeazor’s confession reflected how unknown, un-impactful and unsuccessful the Directorate was prior to 2015 when the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government took over office. President Buhari met the expectations of the pensioners through the consistent deployment of purposeful, result oriented and transformative Executive Secretaries to man the once moribund Pension administration in the Country. Within a period of four years, the Agency has been brought to limelight for the best reasons in line with its mandate. The Directorate is statutorily responsible for the management of pensions of the old pension offices of the Police, Customs, Immigration & Prisons, Civil Service and the Boards of Trustees of Parastatals and Agencies. From the administration of the immediate past Executive Secretary to the incumbent leadership of Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, PTAD has not only demonstrated the capacity to put smiles on the faces of pensioners under the Old Defined Benefit Pension Schemes with prompt and full payment of their pensions and gratuities, it has also emerged as a role model for other government agencies on how best to run a people oriented agency. That has won it enviable laurels and swelled PTAD’s list of achievements, especially in the last one year when Dr. Ejikeme took over as its head. At an event to mark her first year in office last week, Dr. Ejikeme opened her books – containing litany of achievements and successes to the public. The aftermath was a unanimous testament by the retirees who were represented at the event by their various association executives – that indeed, PTAD is a leading example for transparency, integrity and good governance with prompt payment of pensions even at the throes of economic downturn occasioned by the ravaging Coronavirus pandemic. The retirees say when they least expected (during the coronavirus induced nationwide lockdown), PTAD did the unanticipated by paying their pensions even before the end of each month – all through the ‘pandemic season’. It keeps them amazed. Within the memory of all the pensioners, nothing like it has ever happened in Nigeria. A peep into PTAD’s list of achievements in the last one year shows an organization that seems to be insulated from the global economic meltdown. The Executive Secretary attributed the success to President Buhari’s directive to ensure no Federal Pensioner is owed again. For instance, within the last one year alone, a total of over N96 billion was paid to pensioners under the old defined benefit pension scheme between July 2019 and August 2020. That is a massive departure from the past when pensioners barely get up to three to four months’ payment in a year. The high virus of fraud that used to be all over the place is being cleared very fast and neat. The brag list of PTAD also contains the fact that 5,834 pensioners have been suspended from the payroll after a Bank Verification Number (BVN) Authentication exercise that was done in collaboration with Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS). Also, PTAD embarks on a serious anti-fraud fight against pension scammers to protect the pensioners. The Agency and its leadership have been on a compulsory, aggressive nationwide verification of retirees. That has indeed helped to clean up the payroll and saved the federal government billions of naira. According to the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate, 2,416 of those removed have been restored after undergoing positive review and validation, the pension watchdog said. It was a seamless exercise for the retirees as they were not taken through the usual stress of having to travel long distances or stay on queues for days and weeks to be verified. They were simply verified at any of PTAD’s centers that were within the geo-political zones where they currently reside. Among other achievements, PTAD has seen to the completion of the nationwide verification exercise for the Parastatal Pensioners (PaPD) and continuous verification conducted mainly in their Lagos and Abuja offices and in some of their other 8 State offices, while ensuring continuous computation of monthly pension payment; restoration of pensioners hitherto not on payroll to monthly pension payroll; monthly pension adjustments – overpayments and underpayments; payment of arrears to pensioners on the payroll and review, computation and payment of death benefits to the Next of kin of deceased Pensioners. Addressing reporters on the operation of the Directorate in the last one year, the PTAD Executive Secretary, Dr. Ejikeme said over N77 billion was paid as monthly pensions payments to 244,643 pensioners as at July 2020, adding that 87, 842 pensioners were paid arrears and gratuities of over N19 billion, while the sum of over 670 million was paid to 418 Next of Kin of deceased pensioners. Some of the pensioners who spoke at the event said it was a milestone achievement in the history of the Directorate. The payments include the balance of 33 per cent arrears for the parastatal pensioners, which it said had been outstanding since 2010 and was fully paid to the pensioners and NoKs in November/December 2019. The PTAD boss announced that dead pensioners and those that are not responding to its calls for verification and other invitations will be removed from its payroll by next month. “Deceased pensioners and unresponsive pensioners on the list will be removed from the payroll from October 2020,” Dr. Ejikeme said. According to Dr. Ejikeme, the Directorate made payments in December 2019 as well as in the 2nd and 3rd quarters of 2020 to pensioners of defunct agencies. The payments were made to pensioners to reduce the inherited liabilities from New Nigeria Newspapers, NICON Insurance, Nig-Reinsurance, Delta Steel Company, NITEL and NAHCO. There has been continuous expansion of Information Technology infrastructure for effective service delivery in all our state offices to make the Directorate more accessible to Pensioners in the agency. For recording feats, PTAD has been receiving positive recognitions from Civil Society Organisations such as the Public and Private Development Centre (PPDC), BudgeIT, Connected Development (CODE), Right to Know (R2K), Basic Right Watch (BRW) and Media Right Agenda (MRA) on PTAD’s efforts in promoting government accountability and transparency. That was not all. The PTAD leadership said it is currently working on the recovery of legacy funds and assets in the custody of 12 insurance underwriters belonging to the defunct agencies. They were previously responsible for the pension payments to federal government parastatals and the universities. Refuting an earlier allegation that the PTAD diverted the pension funds of NAHCO pensioners, the Executive Secretary said the agency used rolled-over pension funds to pay the disengaged NAHCO staff. PLANS The Executive Secretary said her plan is to ensure all pensioners have health insurance immediately after a thorough clean-up of the payroll, wage aggressive war against pension scammers and fraudsters and recover legacy funds and assets of defunct companies. PTAD is a key figure in the planned review of the 2004 pension reform Act by the Federal Government. The review is aimed at addressing some grey areas in the current Act to allow for better service delivery to the pensioners and efficiency of the pension watchdogs. An appropriate business continuity programme is being implemented to manage unforeseen risk/losses that could occur as a result of IT equipment damage from natural disasters, human error, hacking, system failure, cybercrime etc. Under the current leadership of Ejikeme, PTAD has broken the ice on prompt complaint resolution, which has considerably reduced complaints from pensioners and has revived public trust in government’s ability to professionally administer pension payment. Many government agencies are not known to be prompt in responding to complaints, but PTAD is also leading in that aspect.