As part of moves to increase foreign direct investments (FDI), global technology provider, Dimension Data is returning back to the Nigerian technology market to better deliver the changing technology needs of its clients in Nigeria. The move will see Integrated ICT services provider, Internet Solutions Limited rebrand and operate as Dimension Data by the end of this year in all its operating companies to enable it consolidate its businesses and enhance efficiency. Consequently, Olugbenga Olabiyi who has been appointed as the country manager to head the company’s business operations in this country, assured clients that the company will continue to deliver services seamlessly and efficiently even as the firm works through the rebranding and integration process. He noted that they will be focusing on developing uniquely tailored IT solutions as well as providing value-driven services through customer engagement and outstanding technology infrastructure – that advance productivity and business growth. “We are happy to have received the government’s approval allowing us to rebrand and operate as Dimension Data. Our vision is to be a partner of choice for businesses; delivering innovative, game-changing technology and solutions not only in Nigeria but in the Middle East and Africa,” he said. The Dimension Data Group of companies is also consolidating and rebranding all its subsidiaries in the Middle East and the rest of Africa where it has operations. The realignment saw Internet Solutions managing director, Richard Hechle appointed to head the group’s consolidated business in East and West Africa. Hechle said consolidating the company’s business will help the firm unlock opportunities for greater innovation, as well as giving clients the power to build their futures using game changing technology. “Bringing all our people and operating companies together will allow us to effectively and efficiently execute our go-to market strategy and enable our clients’ success in a digital-first world. This digital-first world is characterised by technologies that are converging to deliver unified, hybrid and holistic solutions for real business impact,” he said. As the market around us continues to evolve, he said the company was conscious of the need to remain relevant by delivering products and services that enable clients to meet the increasing demand for personalisation and customisation. Leveraging technology is critical for businesses and our products and services play a vital role in empowering them to build their future. The group is reorganising around five go-to-market areas to deliver intelligent technology and services that are aligned to our clients’ journeys, including Intelligent Infrastructure, Intelligent Workplace and Customer Experience, Intelligent Business Applications, Intelligent Innovation, and Intelligent Cyber Security. “Reorganising ourselves to deliver what the market demands is driven with growth in mind and we are very excited about the future and are committed to bringing these changes online quickly. The role of technology in business is changing, therefore, how it is consumed, and the decisions related to technology are also changing. We are adapting to align our organisation to that of our client choices,” Hechle said.