By Danjuma Joseph, Lafia The Legislative arm of Obi Local Government Council of Nasarawa State has served impeachment notice on the Executive Chairman, Iyimoga Oyigye. The impeachment notice is coming a week after the chairman was suspended by the ward executive of his party, the ruling All Progresssives Congress- APC. Addressing newsmen, the councilors said the move was aimed at impeaching the Chairman whom they accused of misconduct. Leader of the Legislative Arm, Luka Isaiah said eight out of ten councilors in the LG, have signed for the impeachment of the chairman. He alleged that the Chairman embarked on projects involving millions of naira without forwarding the proposals to the Legislative Arm for approval before execution. He accused the Chairman of failing to provide breakdown of funds the local government accessed as revenue allocation from the state government since he assumed office over two years ago. The House Leader also alleged that on three different occasions, Iyimoga sent thugs to disrupt the house proceedings and forcefully seized the mace, insisting that “such act is not only barbaric, but also a gross abuse of office” Our Correspondent reports that among those who endorsed the impeachment is Honourable Matthew Simon, the Councillor representing Oyigye’s Obi electoral ward. Speaking to our correspondent on phone, Simon said the Councillors have series of complaints against the chairman, all bothering on abuse of office and reckless misuse of powers. “I am the councillor representing Obi ward, we come from the same ward with Oyigye. We have many complaints of breach of the constitution by the suspended chairman. “The constitution provides that he has to consult the legislature for any expenditure above N500, 000 but he has observed that constitutional provision in breach and carries on as if nothing is wrong”. Matthew who is popularly called Adogbo said among the offences of the embattled council chairman is his refusal to present 2020 budget to the legislative arm for scrutiny and eventual passage in spite of repeated calls on him to do so. He accused the chairman of mobilising thugs to venue of the councillors sitting to beat and smash their cars, saying, “We left our cars and fled Obi to Lafia, the state capital which is 32 kilometers away. In a swift reaction, the embattled Chairman denied the allegation and noted that the move to impeach him will not stand.