The economy of the states and security would top agenda as governors of the 36 states meet today.  This was disclosed in a statement by the head Media Affairs of the Nigeria Governors Forum ( NGF), Abdulrazaque Bello Barkindo.
According to him, the governors will rub minds with the Presidential Economic Advisory Council, represented by its chairman, Bismark Rewane to x-ray the management of state economies, their challenges, opportunities and policy solutions.
He said Rewane had chaired the committee when it resolved the gridlock on minimum wage between states and their workers about a year ago.
“He will be making one of the two presentations scheduled for tomorrow’s meeting. “The subnational economy will again feature prominently as it will  come up again when the governors discuss their participation in a summit organised by the Nigeria Economic Summit Group, NESG, which is due to take place, a month from now, precisely on the 26th and 27th of October 2020.
“The NGF is partnering with the NESG to organise the Summit, which is more of an NGF-NESG roundtable than anything else, because governors
are featuring very prominently in each of the 26 segments of the roundtable and its plenaries,” he added. He said the  two conversations are geared towards preparing the state  governors for their Post-COVID-19 recovery plans and ensuring that, maximum impact of the reforms is felt by the subnational populace. “This is expressly contained in the invitation sent to Governors by the Director-General of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Mr
Asishana Bayo Okauru, last night.
The meeting will start at 2 pm but Governors are, as usual, allowed access into the virtual conference from 1 pm. “Also, to feature in the meeting, are several updates. For example, apart from the regular updates on the SFTAS project, which is usually handled by the NGF SFTAS Programme Manager, Lanre Ajogbasile and the Governor Okowa Committee, which is mandated to interface with the  Presidential Task Force on the pandemic, the Conclusion of the CACOVID  Flag-Off and Distribution of Palliatives will be revisited just as the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) Update will be given. “Away from the economy and COVID-19, the governors will receive
information and discuss the security situation in the country, giving
particular attention to Zamfara State. The Vice Chairman of the NGF and Governor of Sokoto State Rt Hon Aminu
Waziri Tambuwal, is also expected to give an update on Executive Order
#10.All the 36 governors are expected to join the meeting,” he added.