Luis Suarez, Martin Braithwaite and Samuel Umtiti could be part of a 12-man firesale at Barcelona, according to reports in Spain. The Catalan giants are looking to add at least three names to their squad this summer – namely a left-footed centre back, a physical midfielder and a forward – after resolving the transfer saga involving star man Lionel Messi last month. But the club acknowledge they must urgently address their overly-inflated wage bill and Mundo Deportivo claim 12 players are yet to clarify their future with the crisis-struck club. Forward Suarez appeared set for a move to Juventus, with just a medical and bonuses to sort out after a £2.8m (€3m) move plus £12m (€13m) in variables had been agreed, but the report claims Atletico Madrid have arrived on the scene and the Uruguayan’s openness to staying in Spain has changed the scenario. If and when the 33-year-old former Liverpool striker departs, Barcelona will be left with controversial January signing Martin Braithwaite as their only natural central striker. Arturo Vidal could also be among the first to leave the club alongside Suarez, but the report admits the current financial slump caused by the coronavirus is holding up his move to Inter Milan. Centre back Samuel Umtiti is also a player who Barcelona would like to sell, and although the France international initially refused to leave the Camp Nou, he has been told by Koeman that his future lies elsewhere, with former club Lyon best placed to sign him. Fellow Frenchman Jean-Clair Todibo’s future also lies away from the club, who are demanding a £23million (€25m) fee for him amid Premier League interest from Everton and Leicester City. But the Spanish outlet claims new boss Ronald Koeman is not totally convinced by the Dane and would like time to cast his eye over him, despite admiring his professionalism.
The 29-year-old’s agent has reportedly offered his client around in the transfer market but has not received any interest for the Denmark international.