The Emir of Biu, Mai-Umar Mustafa-Aliyu, is dead. He passed on in the early hours of yesterday at the age of 80.
Borno State government confirmed the death of the royal father in a statement by the state commissioner for Home Affairs, Information and Culture, Alhaji Babakura Abba-Jatau.
Abba-Jatau said, “Inna Lillahi wa innah ilayhi rajiun, his royal highness the emir of Biu, Mai Umar Mustafa Aliyu has answered the call of Allah Subuhanahu wa Taa La. “The late Emir was appointed in June 1989. He died this morning at the age of 80. He will be laid to rest in Biu at 2pm today according to palace sources. May his soul rest in perfect peace, Amen”.
 The deceased was born on  November 9, 1940 in Biu. He attended Kwaya Kusar Junior Primary School between 1947 and 1949, and Biu Central Primary School from 1950 to 1953. Thereafter, he proceeded to Hausari Primary School in Maiduguri between 1953 and 1955.
He was the District Head of Biu town from 1975 to 1989 before he emerged the Emir of Biu.
Sources in Biu said the passing of the legendary man of peace resonated all of over the Kingdoms as subjects mourned the Octogenarian.  His kingdom spans across Biu, Bayo, Hawul and Kwaya-Kusar local government areas of southern part of Borno state. PMB, Gombe Gov, Emir Of Gazargamu Mourn
 Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday extended what he described as heartfelt condolence to the government and people of Borno State on the passing of Emir of Biu, Alhaji Mai Mustapha-Aliyu.
The president, in a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, also commiserated with the royal family and the Biu Emirate Council on the death of the Emir who he said for 31 years had the privilege of leading the people of Biu with diligence and dedication. Adesina said President Buhari affirmed that the Emir who was a strong advocate for peace and development in the North East region demonstrated visionary leadership that was very evident to all, including his efforts to modernise Biu by supporting the establishment of educational institutions in the community. The president noted that the Emir’s style of servant leadership for over three decades earned him the trust and respect of his community, contemporaries and Nigerians from diverse political, social and religious leanings.
“He believes that the Emir’s good works will continue to be remembered and cherished in his community and the wider region of the North East, praying almighty God to grant the soul of the departed eternal rest and comfort to the people of Biu during this time of mourning”, the presidential spokesman. Also, Gombe State Governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, said he received with sadness the news of the demise of the Emir of of Biu.
Governor Yahaya, in a condolence message issued by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Ismaila Uba Misilli, said the demise of the first class traditional ruler, especially at this time is indeed a great loss not only to the Biu Emirate or Borno State, but the country as a whole.
He described the monarch as an exemplary leader and a man of peace who, throughout his reign, was known for preaching and promoting unity and harmony among the diverse people of his domain, the state and the nation at large.
The Gombe governor consoled the bereaved to take solace in the fact that the late Emir left behind legacies of honour, dignity and selfless service, urging them to uphold and sustain same. The governor, on behalf of the Government and people of Gombe State, extended his heartfelt condolences to his Borno State counterpart, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum and through him, members of the Biu royal family as well as the government and people of the state over the great loss, praying Almighty Allah to grant the deceased monarch Aljannat Firdaus and comfort those he left behind. Similarly, the Emir of Ngazargamu, Alhaji Ahmed Tijjani Ibn Saleh, expressed sadness over the death of the Emir of Biu, Alhaji Umar Mustapha-Aliyu, describing the deceased as a foremost traditional ruler.
The monarch in a statement also described the late royal father as a man of peace whose reign witnessed monumental development in his domain in particular and Borno State in general. According to the statement, the late Emir was an apostle of peace and good relationship between the people of Borno State, adding that he shall be dearly missed. He commiserated with the immediate family of the deceased, Biu emirate, Borno State Council of Traditional Rulers and the people and government of Borno State over the irreparable loss. The royal father noted: “I learnt of the demise of the Emir of Biu with deep shock and great sadness. May Allah forgive his shortcoming. The late Emir was an older friend and confidant. I will personally miss his advice”.
The Emir of Ngazargamu further described the death of the Emir of Biu as a colossal loss not only to the people of Biu but Borno State, Yobe State and Nigeria as whole.