The chairman, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Walid Jibrin, yesterday declared that the party will reclaim 90 per cent of states in Nigeria if free, fair and credible elections hold in 2023.
Jibrin, who stated this while congratulating the newly re-elected governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, and PDP over the electoral victory last Saturday, added that the outcome of the election shows good signs for the main opposition party ahead of 2023. He however urged the party leadership to ensure robust reconciliation in all the states just as he warned against unnecessary dismissals and respect for the dignity of individuals and appreciation of group dynamism.
He said, “After our victory In Edo State PDP now controls 16 states while APC controls 19. This is therefore a good sign that PDP is on its way to control over 90 percent of the states in Nigeria noting with interest the free, fair and transparent election conducted by INEC in Edo state.” He added that PDP will tackle the security concern in the country as well as address the transportation challenges in the country. He said, “The current insecurity problems in Nigeria is a matter of concern by all as all Nigerians live in serious fear which PDP will certainly solve upon resuming power. “Motor and Railway transportations are insecure landing at airports and proceeding to destination are problematic.”
“In Oder to allow us capture power PDP is in full reconciliation in all the states to make the party intact with no unnecessary dismissals we are respecting the dignity of individuals and dynamism of a group. “The door is always opened to everyone to join the party and members to continue remaining in the party. The NWC, BoT, Governors forum are determined to continue with their roles to move the party forward. All PDP media groups, youth forums, women Associations are being encouraged. “The BoT the conscious of the party is determined to continue playing its roles. It’s obvious that there is no party to rule Nigeria again but only PDP. Finally all Nigerians must follow the path of Edo state and must be fully ready for 2023”, he said.