With the new football league season set to commence, majority of the Nasarawa Amazons players have threatened to leave the club following poor remuneration. LEADERSHIP Sports gathered that the highest-paid player collects only N60,000 monthly and with many of the players receiving between N30,000 to N40,000 monthly. It would be noted that Nasarawa Amazons are the most successful women’s team in the north, having won more laurels for the state than any other sport, as they set to represent the country at the African Club Competition this season. Recall that the Amazons defeated Rivers Angels 5-4 via penalties shootout after regulation time ended goalless to lift their second Aiteo Federation Cup title in 2019 at the Ahmedu Bello Stadium in Kaduna State. A player who spoke on the condition of anonymity revealed that over seven major players are threatening to leave the team if their salary enhanced structure is not implemented. “Majority of the players are now looking forward to joining other teams due to the poor salaries structure of the clubs, we want the Nasarawa State government to take this matter seriously and ensure that our salaries are increased,” she said. Another player called on Nasarawa State deputy governor, Dr Emmanuel Akabe to fulfill his $2000 pledge to the team for winning the Aiteo Cup. “We are appealing to the deputy governor, Dr Emmanuel Akabe to fulfill his $2000 pledge made before the press to the team over a year now for winning the Aiteo Cup in 2019”. “The two thousand dollars would have spurred us the players to up our game in future to do the state proud. “The FA chairman and also an NFF Executive Committee, Alkali Mohammed, also promised to give monetary reward but has not fulfilled his promise,” she added. Recall, that the state governor Engineer Abdullahi Sule gave the team a token of N 7million as his contribution after the Amazons won the Federation Cup in 2019. All efforts to reach the management of the club proved abortive as they didn’t pick their calls or reply to text messages at press time.