Samsung Electronics has revealed that the Galaxy S20 Fan Edition (FE), the newest member of the Galaxy S20 series was inspired by the fans of the company’s products. The company in a statement by the Managing Director, Samsung Electronics West Africa, Mr. Caden Yu and made available to LEADERSHIP Friday, yesterday in Abuja, explained that Galaxy S20 FE is a premium flagship smartphone that includes innovations Galaxy fans told the company they love most, and it is also made available at an accessible price point. “The S20 FE is an extension of the Galaxy S20 family and is the start of a new way to bring meaningful innovation to even more people to let them do the things they love with the best of Galaxy,” Caden Yu said. He noted that COVID-19 disrupted the world as we knew it and technology is now playing a more crucial role in our lives and that is why it created Galaxy S20 FE to deliver flagship experiences to more consumers. He said that the compnay took select features of the Galaxy S20 series, such as the super smooth scrolling display, an AI-powered camera, advanced chipset, hyper-fast connectivity, all day battery, expandable storage, with a streamlined premium design, in order to create the all-new Galaxy S20 FE. The statement reads in part, “The S20 FE comes in variant colours of Cloud Red, Cloud Lavender, Cloud Mint and Cloud Navy. With the S20 FE, the fun never stops. The pro grade camera and 30X Space zoom help you capture memorable moments whether near or far at day time. Plus, the night mode multi-frame and powerful performance gets you through the fun nights and the 4500mAH battery keeps you on all day with little in between time to recharge using the 15W fast charging. “And since life can be unpredictable, the Galaxy S20 FE is water and dust resistant; IP68 rated. Better yet, when accidents happens, one can rest easy knowing the 24 months warranty and Screen repair offer that comes with Pre order has got your back. The S20 FE is available for pre order from the 9th of October with a Wireless Bluetooth earphones, Clear Standing cover and Screen repair offer. You also get a 4 month Free Subscription on YouTube premium. Trade In Discount Offer also available from Pre order. Trade in your old phones and enjoy discount on the S20 FE Launch
The S20 FE would be officially available in the market from the 23rd of October.”