LG Electronics has rolled out new lineup of TVs, led by 14 new OLED models including the art-inspired GX Gallery series, real 8K ZX models and 4K Ultra HD TVs.
The undisputed world leader in OLED TVs, LG is taking the viewing and gaming experience into exciting, new territories in Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Consumers will appreciate the sophisticated designs of LG’s 2020 premium TVs and their ability to seamlessly integrate with, and elevate, any space.
The Company in a statement to National Economy said “OLED continues to offer the best viewing experience around, the self-emissive display technology able to precisely control light at the pixel level for the deepest blacks, most realistic colours and an infinite contrast. The stunningly sleek form factors of the new TVs are as breathtaking as the picture quality they deliver, beneficiaries of LG’s unrivalled OLED technology.”
According to the Company, exemplifying LG’s commitment to outstanding design, the three new GX Gallery series models offer a uniquely minimalist aesthetic, made possible by OLED’s revolutionary panel technology which does not require a backlight.
“This enables the television to integrate state-of-the-art picture quality in an ultra-thin form factor, the 65-inch model only 20mm thin without the need of a separate control box. The TV mounts flush to the wall akin to a piece of art in a gallery.”
It noted that producing images of unprecedented detail and clarity, the much anticipated LG OLED ZX Real 8K models deliver four times the screen resolution of 4K and 16 times that of Full HD.
“To guarantee a real 8K experience, LG’s TVs meet and exceed the industry definition for 8K Ultra HD TVs as defined by the Consumer Technology Association, making them among the first 8K models qualified to use the CTA 8K Ultra HD logo,” it added.
The Company further said that LG is also rolling out all-new 4K OLED TVs for 2020 (models CX and BX in 77-, 65- and 55-inches), each delivering the outstanding picture quality that LG OLED is known for.
“Consumers will also have a new size to choose from when the 48-inch CX OLED TV becomes available later this year. What’s more, NanoCell TV, LG’s premium LCD TV lineup, welcomes seven Real 8K units (75- and 65-inches in Nano99, Nano97, Nano95 series, 55-inch Nano95) all carrying the CTA 8K UHD logo like their OLED counterparts.”  