By Solomon Nda-Isaiah, Abuja WEMA Bank, one of the Nigeria’s influencial financial institutions has updated it’s ALAT functions for effective customers satisfaction. It will be recall that when ALAT first came on the scene, it completely transformed the banking sector. ALAT which allow users to earn an annual interest on their savings, enabled them to create a virtual dollar account, access loans, and open accounts from their mobile phones with zero paperwork has now been upgraded. “Well, just when we thought we had seen it all, Nigeria’s first fully digital bank is inviting Nigerians to do even more with ALAT,” a statement from the Bank said, expressing optimism that the new upgrade will serve the customers better. “Through a new and improved version, ALAT is introducing a host of exciting features to join an already wide range of innovative products it had previously brought into the market. With the upgrade, users can now enjoy increased benefits and freedom of banking including: “Access to Salary Based Loans: Salary earning customers are automatically eligible for the salary-based loan on ALAT. This means that they can easily apply for a loan on the app, ahead of their next pay day.
“ALAT Virtual Dollar Card: This virtual card has all the attributes of a physical debit card, and can be used for making online purchases in dollars. All the information required to use the virtual dollar card is available on the ALAT app, and can be retrieved at any time from the user’s dashboard. Also, money credited to the dollar card may be converted to naira and transferred to the user’s ALAT account.
“Loan Top Up and Flexible Repayment Options: Gone are the days when people had to pay up one loan before accessing another. The goal based loan feature on ALAT now allows users to top up existing loans, so far their loan limit is not exceeded. “Access to Device Loans. ALAT’s new Device Loan feature, allows users to purchase any device of their choice, with a down payment of just 20% of the price, with the option of picking it up from the vendor or having it delivered to them. “The ALAT upgrade also provides customers access to their loan dashboards which displays all existing loans, and even the history of previous loans. Users also have the option to hide their account balance on the dashboard, make card requests on the app, onboard and generate a wallet without BVN, and so much more,” the statement added. According to the bank, ALAT is definitely reinventing banking with the singular focus of showing its customers that they can do more with ALAT. “So if you thought you had already seen the future of banking with ALAT, brace yourself for the dawn of a new banking era. Five awesome things you can do with the new ALAT upgrade are: “You can wield the power of an account manager. With the new upgrade, you can now view the details of your salary-based loans as well as that of other existing ALAT loans on a single dashboard. The dashboard will also display your loan history to help you monitor your long-term activity, just like an account manager. “Automatic loan eligibility for salary earners. All salary earning customers are now eligible for the salary based loan on ALAT. So if you ever find yourself in a fix, you can easily get a loan ahead of the next pay day! “Top up your loans at any time. With the ALAT upgrade, customers can now top up their loans at any time. This means that you can get an additional loan, while servicing an existing loan! “Need a new device? Get 80% financing! ALAT customers can now acquire their desired phones, tablets and laptops, with only a 20% down payment. They also get to decide if they want to pick up their devices from the vendor or have it delivered to their doorsteps. With a flexible payment plan as this, you can satisfactorily enjoy your new device with peace of mind. “Get more freedom with your virtual dollar card. ALAT went all out with the new upgrade, extending its principle of freedom to the dollar card. With all the attributes of a physical debit card, the virtual dollar card can be used for making online purchases in dollars. All the information required to use the virtual dollar card is available on the ALAT app, and can be retrieved at any time from the user’s dashboard. Also, money credited to the dollar card may be converted to naira and transferred to the user’s ALAT account,” the statement added. In addition, the bank said all ALAT cards are no longer constrained by border, as they can be activated without specifying the country. “If you’ve already enjoyed some of the exciting benefits of ALAT, get ready to do more with ALAT, ” the Bank added. 