BY ISAIAH BENJAMIN, Senator Kabir Marafa who represented the Zamfara Central Senatorial district during the 8th National Assembly (NASS) has called on the President Muhammadu Buhari led federal government to consider the implementation of the resolutions passes by the 8th Assembly as part of measures to address insecurity in Zamfara State. Senator Marafa who stated this while fielding questions from newsmen in Kaduna shortly after marrying out his daughter and 13 female orphans lamented the security situations in the state and urged the federal government to help address the menace. According to him, “Talking about the security situation in Zamfara state, I am appealing to the President Muhammadu Buhari to please in the name of Allah implement the resolution that was passed at the tail end of the 8th National Assembly, where we called on the federal government to extend even if it is a small fraction of what has been done in North-East in Zamfara State. “The federal government should constitute a Presidential Initiative Committee on Zamfara state, give the Committee a seed money of N10 billion and same amount to be given every 10 years to assist the situation on ground. “The situation is that, between 2011 and 2019, conservatively, 10,000 able bodied men were killed in Zamfara State. If those 10,000 men had an average of two wives, that means, there are 20,000 widows in Zamfara, if you give them an average of four children per family, that means, there are 40,000 orphans in Zamfara. “That is what informed my gesture to sponsor the wedding of these 13 orphans, because most of them are grown up, but their families cannot buy them even broom. “So, I am calling on Mr President as the father of the Nation to look at that Senate resolution of 2019 and implement it because that is the only way we can curtail the spill over we are now seeing in Katsina, Sokoto and other places. “Because, when people are hungry and someone gives them a hundred thousand Naira and AK47, they will follow the person. But if these orphans are properly catered for and trusted persons are appointed to manage the resources, we can tame the monster called banditry to the bearest minimal” he stressed. 