According to Iloduba Tochukwu Joemartins AKA De Joe one of the notable estate developers in the lucrative Lagos property sector, survival in business of any kind needs a certain strategy. In the words of Iloduba, CEO, Joe Best Estate Development and Property Limited, the greatest strategy to survive in Real Estate business is reinvention. He said, “Real estate in Nigeria has its challenges as it does anywhere in the world, but for anyone who is serious about surviving and flourishing in the business, he must devise a strategy to stay ahead of the curve. Like every other business, the property business has its challenging times. Rather than complaining about a hard time, I simply embraced the challenges, adapt to changes and focus on what matters,” he articulates his strategy of coping with difficult times. Continuing, De Joe shared his own experience to further illustrate his point: “When I was starting, lack of funding was my biggest challenge, but like I always tell, if you are serious about being an active player and stakeholder in real estate, you have to embrace the challenges, embrace the change and most importantly, be strategic and creative in planning.” While he does not miss an opportunity to declare his absolute passion for what he is doing “Joe Best Real Estate is my number one passion,” he chimed. De Joe, however, is humble enough to acknowledge where his biggest motivation and push came from.
“That would be my uncle, Anthony. He was my biggest motivation in the business. He took me on some business meetings and I was awed by the way he closed the deals, I mean with so much grace and astuteness. He also played a big role in helping me to stand on my feet. Aside from him, I had few investors, too.” On how the sector can continue to brave the odds during this season of anomie brought about by the coronavirus, De Joe avowed that estate and property developers have to face the challenges of the time. “It is necessary that we accept the change in the world, but more importantly, be strategic and creative in planning,” he advised. While disclosing the imminent completion of an estate being developed by his firm in Lagos, De Joe further avowed: “Real estate requires patience and hard work; if you are honest and careful in your planning, success will certainly not elude you.”