BY HUSSAINI JIRGI, DAMATURU. Yobe state Governor Hon Mai-Mala Buni, has commenced the construction of 15 units of two-bedroom semi-detached houses for Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs, in the state. Governor Mai Mala, started that the project was sponsored by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited, SPDC, Joint Venture, JV, Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited, SNEPCO, and Total Nigeria Plc. Represented by Hon Bukar Dauda, Commissioner for Housing and Urban Development, he disclosed that the gesture as historic milestone in the state’s effort for resettlement, rehabilitation and reconstruction drive. He added that, ” let me use this opportunity to tell you that, when completed the 15 units of two-bedroom houses would bring succour to the families of the beneficiaries very body will be happy for the gestures” he said. According to him,” we would like to express our appreciation to Shell Nigeria Limited, Total and NNPC on this noble objective of providing permanent shelter to the victims of insurgency in Yobe State,” he emphasized. In his respond, Alhaji Mustapha Abubakar, the Managing Director ‘AB Energy Resources Limited’ and one of the project managers also commended NNPC, Total Nigeria Plc and SPDC JV for the notable project. He said the shelter intervention was aimed at providing immediate and medium-term relief to vulnerable host populations and IDPs In selected communities in the state. It is a part of the NNPC’s initiative to provide immediate relief and critical sustainable community development that will positively impact the lives of the IDPs. He called on the state government to support the programme by providing adequate security for speedy completion to put smile on the faces of the beneficiaries. The NNPC in partnership with SPDC Joint Ventures has spent N315 million on the construction of new and upgrading of structures at Modu Mustapha Primary School Damaturu. LEADERSHIP  gathered that, the projects executed are construction of 4 blocks of four classrooms, administrative block, renovation of one block of three classrooms, supply and installation of solar panels for uninterrupted power and reticulations, as well as construction of ten apartments.