The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has identified and registered over 350,000 vulnerable individuals and households in Abaji, Kuje and Kwali area councils of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) for its first phase of Social Investment Programme (SIP). Minister of state for the FCT, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, who disclosed this while declaring open a 3-day training for community-based targeting team at the legislative chamber of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) yesterday, explained that the vulnerable person’s were from about 400 communities. Aliyu revealed that the second phase of the exercise, which will target communities in AMAC, Bwari and Gwagwalada area councils would be done after the completion of the first phase of the exercise. “It’s on record that as at August 2020, a total number of 88,464 poor and vulnerable households and 309,509 individuals from 408 communities across three area councils of Abaji, Kuje and Kwali in the FCT, were identified and registered into the National Social Register (NSR)”. Represented by the special assistant/FCT focal person on Social Safety Net Programmes, Mrs. Chiwendu Eteyen Amba, the minister assured that all those who would be captured from the six area councils into the NSR by the community-based process, would stand a chance of benefitting from the federal government’s Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) of not less than N5, 000 monthly. She further assured all the vulnerable persons in the FCT of government’s commitment to the alleviation of poverty and improving their lives, adding that government is partnering with the World Bank for the initiative. Also speaking, chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Hon Abdullahi Adamu Candido, who hosted the training, pledged the continued support of AMAC, even as he tasked the trainees on diligence,  so as not to jeopardise an opportunity to assist the poor. Candido tasked the beneficiaries to support government policies, noting that such would impact positively on the people. In his contribution, coordinator of FCT Social Safety Net Programme (SSNP), Malam Garba Gambo explained that unlike previous poverty reduction initiatives in Nigeria, the programme was designed to succeed due to community ownership, which, according him, led to the involvement of the World Bank. Gambo noted that lack of coordination, which was the bane of such past programmes, was taken care of in the current initiative, adding that it adopted community-based and bottom-top approach as against a top-bottom one, where the real needs of the poor were not properly identified and tackled.