Africa’s leading payment technology and card brand, Verve International, has rewarded 600 customers so far after the third weekly draws in the ongoing Verve ‘Good Life’ Promo. Verve rewarded the lucky cardholders at prize presentation ceremonies held in various locations across the country recently. Amongst the 300 lucky cardholders that emerged winners of the N10,000 cash prize in the weekly raffle draws that have held three times were: Adeleke Moshood, a student from Oyo State; Adeogun Shakiru, an automobile specialist and Rashidat Abolaji, a businesswoman, both from Lagos State[TO1]. Another set of 300 Verve cardholders emerged winners of airtime worth N5,000, bringing the total amount won so far to N4.5 million Naira. Speaking during the draws, Cherry Eromosele, Group Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, Interswitch Group, expressed her delight about the number of cardholders that have been rewarded lately. Eromosele reiterated Verve’s resolve to continue to provide secure, convenient and reliable payment solutions for its cardholders. She said: “Because our cardholders are of priority to us at Verve, beyond providing them brilliant payment solutions, we are rewarding them for their loyalty with the expectation that the reward helps them achieve the good life, whatever the good life means to them”. Verve recently launched a nationwide promo tagged The Verve ‘Good Life’ Promo which kicked off on September 1, 2020 and will run till November 29, 2020. The promo seeks to enable Verve’s loyal cardholders to live the good life, whatever the ‘good life’ means to them. The promo is targeted at rewarding over 2,500 Verve cardholders nationwide, with over N27 million Naira in cash and airtime, during the course of 12 weeks duration of the promo. With three weeks concluded out of the twelve weeks of the promo, Verve cardholders have eight more weeks to keep transacting with their cards and standing the chance to win. Other Nigerians presently without Verve cards but have the desire to enjoy the good life, can take advantage of this eight-week window to ask their respective banks for a Verve card in order to start transacting, to qualify to win from an array of exciting prizes. The prizes have been categorised into four segments, with their respective qualification requirements as follows: Weekly Prize category 1 – N10,000 cash for 100 winners weekly, requires at least 3 transactions weekly. Weekly Prize category 2 – N5,000 for 100 airtime every week, requires at least 3 transactions weekly. Monthly Prize category – N50,000 cash for 50 winners every month, requires at least 12 times monthly. Grand Prize category – N1,000,000 cash for 2 winners, requires at least 36 transactions from now till the end of the promo. Prospective winners of the Verve ‘Good Life’ promo should consistently use their Verve cards within the next eight weeks, across payment channels such as: Point of Sale (POS) terminals, Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), Web and agent banking centres.