A vast majority of people have been hit devastatingly by the coronavirus pandemic, most especially the vulnerable whom disruption to their daily livelihood has a huge and significant impact on their ability to meet their most basic needs. As a way of cushioning the effect of the coronavirus, the Coalition Against COVID-19, CACOVID, has rolled out palliative measures to cater to 1.7 million households amounting to about 10 million people across the 774 local governments in the country, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The coalition has simultaneously flagged-off the distribution of palliatives in the following states: Bauchi, Jigawa, Kogi, Anambra, Ogun, Kebbi, Ekiti, Borno, Yobe, Enugu, and Plateau. Each household is said to receive 1 bag of 10kg rice, 1 carton of pasta, 2 cartons of noodles, 1 bag of 5kg of sugar, 1 bag of 1kg of salt and 1 bag of 5kg of garri, semovita, and maize. To ensure that these palliatives get to the intended individuals (the vulnerable), the distribution has taken a bottom-up approach. The coalition will leverage its networks to reach all 774 local government areas and will assign its member partners (Over 80 Private organizations) to oversee the delivery of these food items. According to CACOVID administrator and CEO of Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF), Zouera Youssoufou, “CACOVID has since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic been committed to providing relief packages to the most vulnerable. The coalition’s primary focus was to aid the Federal Government in the fight against Covid-19. Having done this successfully, we are turning our attention to offering a reprieve to households who have been adversely affected by the scourge of the virus. Through this food relief programme, we will be reducing the risk of a second viral wave by encouraging people to remain indoors rather than expose themselves when seeking to provide food for themselves and their families.” CACOVID is a private-sector alliance tasked with pulling resources across industries to provide technical and operational support while providing funding and building advocacy through aggressive awareness drives. So far, the coalition has built and revamped testing and isolation centres to strengthen the response capacity of states. They’ve also supported the NCDC with over 300,000 test kits and personal protective equipment (PPES).To join CACOVID in the fight against coronavirus, Call 09045531044 or email supportcacovid@actrustfoundation.org. You can also follow the coalition on all platforms @cacovidng for more information.
= = = == = = == = Plans to feed 1.7 million households underway as CACOVID rolls out palliative measures across states The crippling effect of the coronavirus has been felt not only in Nigeria alone but the world over, as the coronavirus razed through economies destroying the lives and livelihoods of individuals. No doubt, society’s poorest and most vulnerable people have been hit the hardest as the lockdown rendered them helpless with little or no means for survival. To this end, the Coalition Against COVID-19, CACOVID, has begun distributing palliatives to households across the thirty-six states of the federation. CACOVID is a private-sector coalition born out of the sole aim of augmenting the Nigerian government’s efforts in eradicating coronavirus from Nigeria. A part of the coalition’s activities includes awareness drives across channels to educate against the dangers and prevention of the virus, building and revamping of isolation centres to increase the response capacity of states, as well as the distribution of palliatives to 1.7 million households in the 774 local government areas. The coalition has simultaneously commenced the distribution of palliatives in the following states: Bauchi, Jigawa, Kogi, Anambra, Ogun, Kebbi, Ekiti, Borno, Yobe Enugu, and Plateau. Each household is said to receive 1 bag of 10kg rice, 1 carton of pasta, 2 cartons of noodles, 1 bag of 5kg of sugar, 1 bag of 1kg of salt and 1 bag of 5kg of garri, semovita, and maize. To ensure that these palliatives get to the intended individuals (the vulnerable), the distribution has taken a bottom-up approach. The coalition will leverage its networks to reach all 774 local government areas and will assign its member partners (Over 80 Private organizations) to oversee the delivery of these food items. The various state governments expressed appreciation towards CACOVID for their complementary efforts in reducing the suffering of the people at the grassroots. They went ahead to note that this is not a battle that can be won individually, but, with a collective effort, we’ll have this menace behind us sooner than later. CACOVID is dedicated to ensuring that it helps the federal government reach its goal of flattening the curve in Nigeria. To join CACOVID in the fight against coronavirus, Call 09045531044 or email supportcacovid@actrustfoundation.org. You can also follow the coalition on all platforms @cacovidng for more information #StayingAliveTogether #StaySafe #Cacovid.