Yobe State governor, Hon Mai Mala Buni has described former governor now serving senator, Ibrahim Gaidam as a humble and role model with great leadership experience worth emulation by politicians across the state and even beyond. Buni stated this during the inauguration of Bra Bra projects online facilitated by the senator and celebration of his first year in office held at the cultural center Damaturu. The governor who was represented by the commissioner for Youth Sports and Social Development, Hon Goni Bukar Lawan, said Senator Gaidam was a man of integrity with a deep sense of empathy especially with regards to the needs of a common man and vulnerable in society. “I particularly acknowledge and welcome you all to this epoch-making event. Distinguished Senator (Dr.) Ibrahim Gaidam is not only our leader but also a father, mentor and role model with reached experience in leadership. He is highly knowledgeable, religious, polite, humble, patient and simple. “At the ninth Senate, distinguished Senator (Dr.) Ibrahim Gaidam ranked among the best senators, it does not take long for anyone to identify and recognise the wonderful and very rare quality in him,” Buni explained. Senator Gaidam while speaking commended the leadership style of Governor Buni especially on its continuity, consolidation, and innovative policy where projects are being executed across the state. Gaidam who was represented by Alhaji Usman Danladi said, “I am glad to note that the present administration of the state under His Excellency Mai Mala Buni in keeping with its continuity, consolidation and innovative policies have risen to the occasion. “I commend the present administration’s efforts to restore basic infrastructure and services as well as foster social cohesion as part of post-conflict stabilization measures. What is very clear is that all hands must be on deck to salvage our area,” Gaidam added. The former governor who enumerated some of the consequence projects executed by him during the past year applauded his relationship with the youths describing the inauguration of the bra bra online project as a welcome idea.