By ADEBAYO WAHEED, Ibadan The All Progressives Congress  (APC) in Oyo State has faulted the ruling Peoples Democratic Party and Governor Seyi Makinde over claims that they have defeated godfatherism in the politics of the state, saying the statement was not only diversionary but an height of insincerity and hypocrisy. The APC’s Assistant Publicity Secretary, Prince Ayobami Adejumo, expressed worries over what it described as Oyo PDP and Makinde’s penchant for pettiness and misplaced priorities to the detriment of the people of the state who desire good governance and seriousness on the part of those at the helms of affairs. Oyo PDP had in statement on Monday while reacting to the declaration of Governor Godwin Obaseki as the winner of last Saturday gubernatorial poll in Edo State, that the reelected governor had copied Makinde in defeating godfathers and entrenching himself as the de facto political leader in the state. “In as much as we refrain from commenting on what transpired in Edo state last Saturday which, of course, is still being reviewed by the national leadership of our great Party, we feel highly concerned about a governor from a state which is several hundreds of kilometers away from the South- South geopolitical zone asking his lackeys at home to gloat over the purported victory of another man who only joined the PDP to contest the election for some reasons. “Also discerning minds are aware of the fact that Governor Makinde’s frequent claims of conquering godfathers could not be farfetched from his desire to do away with all the forces that helped him to office in 2019 even as we do not want to comment on the current battle for the soul of PDP in the South West between Gov. Makinde and a former PDP governor from Ekiti state. ‘’ We still find it uncharitable for the PDP governor to prioritize all attempts aimed at denigrating his benefactors so soon without minding the consequences. “For the avoidance of doubt the whole world cannot forget in a hurry what happened in the state between 2003 and 2011 when the same PDP hijacked governance from the then AD led government only for Senator Ladoja to start up serious warfare with his godfathers and thus set the state on ceaseless fire for more than four years. If anything, the incumbent governor’s ultimate desire is to turn himself an emperor of the South West through his party. “We have been made to see how he does not recognise the leadership of the PDP in the state as most of the founding fathers of the party have been relegated to the background. “We have equally witnessed how he outplayed most of his strong backers with the formation of a spineless Government Advisory Council (GAC) and what happened to the eggheads of the unholy coalition with which he made it to the Agodi Government House. We can only wish him good luck if he and his hangers-on feel treachery and betrayals are what it takes to establish political hegemony”, Adejumo said.