BY JOY YESUFU, The Africa Young Female Advisers Intiaitive of Nigeria has said it is aiming at having 50 percent of women representation at all levels of governance by 2030 noting that the vision cuts across all African continents to increase voices of young females who are serving at different entry points. President of the initiative, Hon Abiodun Essiet, who is also the special adviser to the executive chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council stated this at the opening ceremony of a three-day capacity building workshop on leadership and management, media and communication, and gender budgeting for young female special advisers in Abuja. She said the vision of the initiative is to help bridge the gap in the inclusion of young women in decision making platforms, amplify the voices and profiles of young females serving in the position of media aides, special advisers, special assistant in different level of government from the local level to the state and the federal level. She said “this meeting is a capacity building organized by Partners West Africa Nigeria (PWAN) in partnership with African young female advisers. We are going to be touching different areas like capacity building on leadership, gender budgeting on media because a lot of young females are doing so much and the media or public are not aware of what they are doing. They will learn how to use the media to promote what they are doing. ”They will also learn different leadership skills and leadership management because some of them are occupying leadership position. This is the whole essence of why we are in this capacity building. “Importantly we have included gender budgeting in this capacity training because some of our special advisers are operating in different departments within their ministries and government and they have capacity to influence whatever is being incorporated in their budget so they need to know the budget processes, the budget procedure, what defending budget is all about and how they can use that budget to impact on men and women, but on women especially”. In her welcome address, Executive Director, PWAN, kemi Okenyodo who was represented by the program manager of the organization, Valkamiya Ahmadu-Haruna said this training is organized at a time the world is looking more towards women’s leadership particularly as we are gearing towards the 20th anniversary of UN Res 1325 on women, peace and security. She further said that while political landscape and leadership still remains a coarse for women in Nigeria, various development partners, civil society organisations and women movement are intensifying their efforts in advancing the cause for greater involvement of women in decision making across board and ensure gender inclusion in all aspects of political economy. 