A socio-political organisation, Middle Belt Congress (MBC), has advocated for a new federal structure in Nigeria with the creation of
19 new states to be grouped alongside existing ones into 12 Provinces,
which will also be known as federating units, with their independent
constitutions to operate. In a memo conveying its 18-point proposals to the Senate Committee on
the Amendment of the 1999 Constitution, dated September 4, 2020 and
sighted by LEADERSHIP yesterday, the group also asked the committee to
expunge Section 2(1) of the current 1999 Constitution (as amended) and
replace it with a new clause, granting any Province or federating unit
to exit the Federation whenever it so wishes. LEADERSHIP reports that Section 2(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as
amended) states that, “Nigeria is one indivisible and indissoluble
Sovereign State.” But MBC said such provision is undesirable and
should be replaced with an exit clause subject to certain
requirements.  “The choice to remain or withdraw from a federation is a fundamental
human right and so cannot be wished away or removed by a Constitution.
The Constitutions of the USA and UK allow the federating units to exit
if they so wish and follow the constitutional requirements by
referendum.  “S.2(1) is, therefore, undesirable and should be expunged from the
Constitution and replaced by an exit enabling clause,” it said. On the new federal structure envisaged by the group, it called for the
amendment of Sections 2(2) and 3(1–5) of the current constitution in
order to create new States and Geographical or Federating Units as
against the existing 36 States and FCT arrangement. “Clearly identify and name the geographical units that have federated
to constitute the Federal Republic of Nigeria. They should be called
Provinces. “Mention that each of these federating units (Provinces) shall have
their individual constitutions, which shall be subservient
to the central Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” MBC said. It posited that besides naming the federating units or Provinces,
their boundaries should be specified, and adjustment to the boundaries
can be made if the need arises through a referendum in the affected
area. It, therefore, suggested to the Senate panel “that two or more
federating units (Provinces) cannot merge or split but can only
cooperate on matters like  economy, waste disposal, water provision,
transportation link, etc, to enhance living standards of their
citizens,” in the proposed new constitution.  The group also called for the amendment of Section 2(6), calling for
only  two tiers of government as against the current three-tier
system, namely the Federal Government and the federating units or
Provinces as sub-national governments.  “Local Governments are no longer governments but administrative units
of the sub-national governments. The former LGs should be renamed
“Councils” or “Municipalities” or “Development Areas” or “Burroughs”
or any other names Nigerians might prefer,” MBC suggested. The group specifically named 12 federating units or Provinces
comprising the proposed new and existing States of the Federation.  According to the MBC Memo, North-West Province shall comprises Sokoto,
Kebbi, and the Zamfara States; North-Central Province to have Kaduna
and Katsina States only; North-North Province to include Kano, Jigawa
and Ghari States.  North-East Province will have Borno, Yobe, Gombe, Bauchi, Amana,
Savannah, and Katagum States; Middle-Belt West Province will comprise
Niger, Kwara, Kogi, Edu and Kainji States. The new Middle-Belt East Province shall comprise Plateau, Benue,
Nasarawa, Adamawa, Taraba, Gurara and Apa States; Western Province
will have Oyo, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Ose, Okun and New Oyo States;
South-West Province shall comprise Lagos, Ogun, and Ijebu States.  While Mid-West Province will include Delta, Edo and Anioma States;
Niger Delta Province will have Rivers, Bayelsa and Oil River States;
South-East Province shall comprise Anambra, Abia, Enugu, Ebonyi, Imo,
Aba, Adada, Njaba and Etiti States; and
South-South Province to include Akwa Ibom, Cross River, and Ogoja States. Beside federal structure, state creation is the second aspect of the
18 proposals sent to the Senate Committee by the MBC, saying that the
creation of 19 new States “will address many political, religious and
ethnic problems bedeviling the country.”  LEADERSHIP also reports that Nigeria currently has 36 States including
the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Abuja.  “Sixty-one (61) requests were received by the 7th NASS in 2012. This
proves that majority of Nigerians are not satisfied with the groupings
that the various military governments did and they want a democratic
correction of the anomalies. “Eighteen (18) of these were recommended by the 2014 National
Conference, to be shared three to each of the six geo-political zones,
while we have recommended one more, Okun State, to satisfy the
yearnings of the Okun people in Kwara and Kogi states,” MBC said.  The list of the proposed 19 new States and where they will be carved
out are as follows: Aba State from Abia State; Adada State from Enugu State; Amana
State from Adamawa State; Anioma State from Delta State; Apa State
from Benue State; Edu State from Niger State; Etiti State from
South East Geopolitical Zone; Ghari State from Kano State; Gurara
State from Kaduna State; Ijebu State from Ogun State; Kainji
State from Kebbi and Niger states; Katagum State from Jigawa State;
New Oyo State from the Oyo State; Njaba-Anim State from
Anambra and Imo states; Ogoja State from Cross River State; Oil
River State from Rivers State; Okun State from Ekiti, Ondo, Kwara and Kogi states; Ose State from Edo State.