By Michael Oche, Surveyor Akinloye Olufemi Oyegbola, has emerged the new President of the Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN). Oyegbola, who has been the First Deputy President of the association became the President during the during the 36th Annual General Assembly (AGA) of APBN which held in Ibadan. Other officers who will be piloting the affairs of APBN alongside Oyegbola are: Mr Manason Rubainu (First Deputy President), Alhaji Ismaila Zakari (Second Deputy President), Mr Olanrewaju Olusola (Secretary General), Adefolake Adeniyi (Assistant Secretary General), Mr Samuel Agbeluyi (Treasurer), Mr Babajide Agboluga (Financial Secretary) and Rawlings Ehumadu (Publicity Secretary). The new APBN President, during his inaugural speech promised to uphold the virtues of APBN and also engage in activities that would ensure that the body contribute immensely to the development of the country. Immediate past President, Chief Olumuyiwa Ajibola, thanked members of APBN for their cooperation in the last two years, while offering to all always be of assistance to APBN whenever is is needed. Speaking during the AGA, a renowned author and administrator, Chief Tola Adeniyi, said that Nigeria can only achieve unprecedented national development through the engagement of professionals. He made the disclosure while delivering a lecture titled:”The imperative of Nigerian Professionals In National Development”. Adeniyi said that national development can only elude Nigeria when professionals are not in charge of the facets and aspects of national activities. He said that Nigeria was awash with many competent, effective and well trained professionals, wondering why many things were not working as expected in the country. “In fact, many Nigerians are seasoned, venerated global personages in their profession. Nigerian doctors, engineers, IT specialists, accountants, lawyers and teachers, particularly in foreign universities  are making great reverberating waves. “If we as Nigerians are these professionally capable, and we indeed are, then how come we have all these crumbling national institutions, epileptic systems and collapsed state organisation? “Our professionalism in Nigeria has over the years been compromised and robbed of integrity. The leaders, professionals and non-professional have not been able to lead aright,” he said. Adeniyi wondered why most of the institutions and systems are not working as expected despite the array of professionals the country has produced. According to him, “most of our institutions and systems are run by professionals. What is missing is the professional touch. “A professional activity devoid of integrity and moral foundation is insipid, dangerous and counter-productive.” He urged professionals to see themselves as the change champions, leaders, agents and catalysts of national development. The renowned author implored professionals to take charge of the Nigeria’s national advancement programmes and lead the transformation of national projects. “I implore our professionals to take charge of Nigeria’s national advancement programmes; lead the change and transformation of our national projects as your professional calling in practice and in deeds. “You must take charge, demand it, compel it, but don’t expect to get it on a platter of gold. Mr Olumuyiwa Ajibola, the immediate past APBN president, said government alone cannot solve the prevailing problems through political or bureaucratic lenses, but needed to be supported by professionals. He said that the best solutions can only follow a deep definition and understanding of prevailing problems, which professionals are best familiar with. Ajibola said that the APBN was ever ready and on standby to put the enormous professional resources of its member bodies to the service of the nation in a positive partnership with government. “In this regard, cross-professional study groups can be swiftly created towards finding the best solutions to issues, before outright policies are evolved. “In this way, the resulting policies, would have taken the critical local setting into consideration and thereby become workable, and acceptable to most of the citizenry,” he said. The event was attended by representatives of the various professional bodies that constituted the APBN. 