BY ISAIAH BENJAMIN, Kaduna Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria and the Yoruba community in in Kaduna State has expressed sadness at the death of Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Shehu Idris describing him as a leader who was focused on peaceful coexistence for his subjects and people of the emirate. Speaking in a statement on Wednesday, Chairman Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria Kaduna Branch, Alhaji Liadi Olapade who also doubles as President of the Yoruba community council in Kaduna State said the late monarch genuinely desired peace in his domain and he did everything possible to achieve the peace. “Ina lillah wa ina illehi rajiun. The Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Kaduna Branch received with shock and sadness, but also with total submission to the will of Allah, the death of the Emir of Zazzau and Chairman, Kaduna State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Dr. Shehu Idris at the age of 84. “Until his death, Alhaji Shehu Idris was one of the Patrons of Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria in the North. He was one of the oldest and highest ranking traditional rulers in the whole of Nigeria. “Though he ruled Zazzau Emirate for 45 years, through a period of political and economic changes, he never lost focus on ensuring peaceful coexistence of his subjects and people of the Emirate. “The late Emir of Zazzau was a leader whose genuine desire for peaceful coexistence amongst the people of the state irrespective of tribe and religion is laudable. He was at peace with himself until his death. “The Ansar-ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Kaduna Branch condoled with the immediate family of the late Emir, the Zazzau Emirate, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, the Kaduna state government and the people of Kaduna state over this tragic loss. “Though we will will miss his guidance, we pray that Allah (SWT) forgive his sins and grant him Jannatul Firdaus,” Alhaji Olapade said. Meanwhile, the Yoruba community in Kaduna state through a statement issued by its publicity Secretary Alhaji Liadi Durowade described the late emir as father whose wealth of experience will be greatly missed. 