The federal government has said that the production of daily refined crude amounting to 5,000 barrels per day in Imo State will increase the nation’s existing oil refining capacity via the use of modular constructed refineries.  The minister of information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed who disclosed this in Ibigwe in Ohaji Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State yesterday during a media tour of the Waltersmith Modular Refinery and Petro-Chemical Company Limited also described the establishment of modular refineries in the country as the result of the enabling environment created by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration.  Mohammed was accompanied on the tour of the refinery which is due for commissioning next month by the governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodimma; the minister of State, Education, Emeka Nwajiuba; the chairman, House Committee on Information, National Orientation, Ethics and Values, Hon. Segun Olubunmi, amongst others.  The minister said that the modular refinery was a good example of the reintegration of the nation’s resources, a development which he said, will put an end to the export of the country’s resources.  According to him, “What we have here today, Waltersmith Refinery, is a good example of reintegration of our resources. No longer are we going to have resources and we are going to be exporting them, but we are going to make good use of these resources and the process will be adding value to it.  “We can show Nigerians that while every government has been talking about modular refineries, no government has succeeded in turning the dream into reality until now.”  Alhaji Mohammed said with the coming on board of medium-scale refineries like Waltersmith, Nigerians will soon experience cheaper petroleum products.  “With this kind of refinery, all issues of subsidy become completely irrelevant because we would be able to get fuel at a cheaper price, especially because everything that is being produced will be for local consumption,” he said.  The minister lauded the partnership between the Waltersmith Refinery and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board that holds a 30 per cent stake in the refinery, which will start with 5,000 bpd, and an additional 25,000 bpd in the second stage and then another 20,000 bpd to bring the capacity to 50,000 bpd in the third and final phase.  He said the administration will continue to showcase its monumental achievements because it has performed well in the execution of projects across the country.  “I am glad we are here today blowing our trumpet because we have created an enabling environment for this project,” he said, after he and his entourage, as well as governor Uzodinma of Imo State and some members of the National Assembly, were taken on a tour of the the refinery, one of many of its type that are in different stages of completion in the country.