About three years to the end of Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s tenure, ABDULLAHI YAKUBU reports that there is already an underground politicking to succeed him in 2023. Although time is not yet ripe for proper politicking for the 2023 general election but  agitations among political gladiators in Kano State is climaxing, being the political boiling point of the North. Presently a sizeable number of politicians have started indicating their interests to come forward and contest for the most exalted position in the state come 2023. LEADERSHIP Friday reports that Kano State being what it is in terms of political relevance and demographics, it is, therefore,  not surprising that intrigues can start this early at a time the current governor has just spent a little over a year into his second and last term in office. A one-time Commissioner for Finance and a staunch member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, bared his mind on the development, saying there are a number of aspirants presently, who are unofficially declaring their interests in taking over the job of Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje within the APC hierarchy as well as from the opposition parties such as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The party stalwart, who doesn’t want his name in print, said some of the aspirants had once contested for the governorship position while others are just throwing their hats in the ring for the first time in order to boost their political profiles. He said that the aspirants will soon come out openly on their aspirations and on which platform they wish to actualise thier dreams. Another source at the Kano State APC  headquarters at Hotoro, Kwanar Maggi in Nasarawa local government area of the state, who craved for anonymity, also told LEADERSHIP Friday that barring last-minute change of mind, a sizeable number of aspirants have indicated interests to gun for the governor’s seat come 2023. He said the aspirations of people like Senator Barau Jibrin alias Maliya, former governor and current Senator Kabiru Ibrahim Gaya, and Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji, are open secrets. Likewise the current Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Hon. Murtala Sule Garo, is well known to most people across the lenght and breath of the state for his silent moves to the Government House owing to the fact that he enjoys the support of majority of local government chairmen across the 44 local government areas of the state. Also, there are others like the Deputy Governor, Dr. Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, who is said to be having the backing of so many powerful groups in the state. He is currently holding nocturnal meetings as well as having wide consultations among those who matter for him to actualise his dream come 2023. For Alhaji Abdulkadir Inuwa Waya, he is relatively new in the political landscape but his aspiration is gaining grounds. His mission is to be the next governor and that is why his name is gradually becoming a household one in the state, according to those in the know. LEADERSHIP findings reveal that Waya has enormous financial muzzle to slug it out with whoever want to stand on his way to the Government House. According to a source in his camp, he described Waya as a man to watch as his philanthropic gestures to the downtrodden especially during the COVID-19 lockdown period knew no boundary and he is currently wooing most party faithful to his side. Another household name is Salisu Sagir Takai, who is seen as another silent aspirant. He has just dumped the PRP for APC recently through the influence of his supporters who wanted a change of platform for another contest come 2023. However,  there is a very likelyhood that Takai will allign with his former boss, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, to vie for the governorship seat for the fourth time having contested and failed previously. It was gathered that his plan to have an alliance with the Shekarau camp is to help him actualise his dream since they once belonged to the same political camp. And in addition, there are a number of factors that will make such an alliance to become an uphill task for Takai. Among the factors are the no love lost between the duo of Shekarau and Takai’s disciples owing to fallouts of previous political alignments. Secondly, Takai might find it difficult to convince Shekarau’s political deciples over his alleged destructive comments on their boss when the going was rough for the latter in PDP prior to the 2019 general elections. On the other hand in the opposition PDP, a party bigwig told our reporter of an oschestrated plan to re-plant the PDP governorship candidate in the 2019 election in the state, Abba K. Yusuf, a man that gave the incumbent Governor Ganduje  a good fight for his money at the poll. He said PDP being the only strong opposition party might want to give Yusuf popularly known as Abba Gida Gida a second chance because of his close relationship with former governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. However, even Abba Yusuf has a number of PDP Kwankwasiyya members that will oppose his nomination even if Kwankwaso later decide to give him the go-ahead to vie for the seat. Interestingly, two powerful forces who decided to keep their aspirations to their chests for now are Alhaji Muhammad Sani Abacha, and his close friend and ally, Alhaji  Ibrahim El-Amin Little. These two politicians are widely known to have plenty of naira to throw away at the last-minute of every gubernatorial contest. They always send jitters down the spine of every contestant because of their direct connection with Abacha Family in Kano, where hard currency has allegedly never been a problem. Whoever is going to make it to the Kano State Government House at the end of the day come 2023 among the names listed above or beyond remain unknown for now. Only time shall tell.