Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku has commended President Muhhamudu Buhari’s effort in educational transformation of the country through Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND). Speaking at commissioning of administrative blocks of faculty of law theatre, faculty of education, faculty of social management science and Agricultural science at the Taraba State University Jalingo, the Governor said his administration will continue to provide necessary Logistics for full accreditation of tertiary education.
He re-stated his administration’s commitment to provide qualitative education for Tarabans.
Ishaku, who was represented by his Deputy, Engr Haruna Manu, appreciated the effort of President Mohammed Buhari, the Ministry of Education and the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) for building structures at the Taraba State University. He noted that no nation can develop without education stressing that much attention was pay to educational development reason for the establishment of the state ministry for Tertiary Education in view to meeting Tarabans yearnings.
The Governor however, assured Tarabans that his administration will provide necessary facilities needed for the full accreditation of the institution program. The Vice Chancellor of the Taraba state University, Prof. Ado Vincent Tenebe said that, TETFUND is one of the institutions that promote educational development in the country. He used the forum to thank the TETFUND, the National University Commission, and the ministry of education for the wonderful gesture extended to Taraba State University. In their different remarks, the Executive Secretary TETFUND, Prof. Suleiman Bogoro, the Secretary for University Commission, Prof. Abubakar Adamu Rashid, as well as the chairman house committee on tertiary education Hon. Aminu Suleiman Goro, commend the good work of Darius administration and thank the TETFUND for such tremendous projects, describing Taraba State University as one of the fast growing Universities in Nigeria. They expressed satisfaction with the quality of the project executed by TETFUND.