Tomorrow, an estimated two million voters in Edo State will expectedly turn out to cast their votes for the 14 candidates participating in the governorship election in the state, the outcome of that election that has attracted heated rhetoric will determine who will govern the state for the next four years. Although there are 14 candidates on the ballot paper, the election will basically be an all-out race between the incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Ironically, four years ago, the roles were switched as Obaseki contested on the platform of the APC while Ize-Iyamu was the PDP standard bearer. However, a recurring decimal in the election was the former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiohmole who backed Obaseki in the last election but is now on the side of Ize-Iyamu. Regrettably, the drums of war beating in the build-up to the election is, to say the least, disappointing and alarming. Allegations and counter allegations of thugs and cultists being recruited to cause mayhem during the exercise abound in the media space. There have been accusations and counter-accusations between the APC and the PDP on sundry issues of public concern. It is safe to surmise that no election has generated so more tension and animus in the history of gubernatorial elections in the state. As part of efforts to assuage frayed nerves, the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare II met with the two major actors in the Edo election. The royal father cautioned members of the state chapters of the PDP and the APC who he accused of heating up the polity. He warned that election was not a do-or-die affair, and that politicians must note that they had only Edo State to call their own and thus must protect it from disintegration. In the considered opinion of this newspaper, the intervention of the revered Oba was instructive as it went a long way in dousing the tension in the state to some extent. Similarly, during the week Obaseki and Ize-Iyamu were made to sign a peace accord for a violence-free election. The peace pact was set up by the Gen Abdulsalami Abubakar-led National Peace Committee. However, it is regrettable, in our view, that most political observers are not convinced that the major actors will abide by the peace deal as politicians in every election cycle so far had been known to sign peace deals only to flagrantly violate every term of the deal even before the ink dries on the paper. This is as a result of the belief by the political class that elections in the country are a do-or-die affair. It cannot be controverted that our elections are usually characterised by thuggery, ballot-box snatching and violence. Politicians instigate violence in their opponents’ strongholds to force the electoral body to cancel the results of such ballots in the area or worse still suppress votes to gain advantage. It is most disheartening, we dare say, that political actors always look for sinister ways to circumvent the system no matter the noble intentions of the electoral body. Such desperate actions have ridiculed the nation in the eyes of the international community some members of which had imposed certain unpalatable measures to whip the erring politicians to line. Recall the United States (US) had recently imposed visa restriction on some individuals for their actions during the Kogi and Bayelsa States’ governorship elections. The police have deployed 31,000 officers and men for the election as is the norm in most of the off- season elections. But that does not give much hope if past experiences are anything to go by. It is on record that in spite of such huge deployment, off-season elections have been characterised by brigandage and violence .This should not be allowed to continue. How we wish that Edo people can prove cynics wrong. We strongly suggest that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) should use the Edo and Ondo elections to make a statement in order to reverse the cycle of violence and brigandage that have become another name for elections in the country. Free, fair and credible elections should be the norm and not the exception. This newspaper had previously frowned at the judiciary usurping the role of the electorate in determining who governs a state by reversing INEC declared election results. We insist that the electorate should determine who governs them and not the courts. We also call on INEC to insist on the use of card readers for the accreditation of voters without any exception. The card readers should validate the identity of the voter and ignore threats and intimidation by politicians. The gubernatorial election in Edo must reflect the will of the people. Let the best candidate win.