By Moses Orjime, Abuja The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has called on the Southern Kaduna People’s Union (SOKAPU) not to drag it into the controversy surrounding the frequent invitation of a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Dr Obadiah Mailafia. According to MACBAN, it is a responsible organisation and won’t make statements that will inflame the already charge atmosphere. MACBAN National Sectary, Usman Baba Ngelzerma, who was reacting to a statement credited to SOKAPU that the group has also been making inflammatory statement, said even the union will acknowledge the fact that they have been working for peace. “We want to make it abundantly clear that MACBAN is a responsible Association led by responsible personalities that have never and will never claim responsibility for irresponsible acts or any form of criminality. In the last eight years the leadership of the association has travelled the length and breath of this country to broker peace. SOKAPU can testify the several engagements we had with them on how to maintain peace and security in Kaduna State. “Dr. Mailafiya made the statements he made knowing fully well the implications his statements will have on peace and security in this country having held a responsible position in government. It is therefore illogical for SOKAPU to drag itself into this controversy talk less of dragging other groups and individuals unless if Mailafiya was making such statements on behalf of SOKAPU. Mailafiya should be allowed to bear his own cross. “We have had enough intolerance and bloodbath in this country, it is time that elites that constitutes pressure groups like SOKAPU to allow peace to reign and work towards an end to strife and belligerence,” MACBAN said. ” We read with dismay a statement made by the Southern Kaduna People’s Union (SOKAPU) on the invitation by the DSS to Dr. Obadiah Mailafiya carried by an online publication, Realnews Magazine on the 14th of September, 2020 in which SOKAPU tried to draw the Miyetti Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) into the controversy surrounding his invitation. “Among groups and individuals SOKAPU is accusing in making reckless statements, MACBAN was mentioned as having claimed responsibility over some “deadly attacks” on communities across the country,” the statement added.