On the popular Ungoggo Road in Bompai, Kano, seats a huge conglomerate, which only not serves the interest of the owners, but also has become a source of socio-economic activity and a pride to Kano State, nay the country at large.
The construction firm, UYK Nig Ltd, is unarguably a household name in the construction business as well as import and export and it is quite renowned for its quantity products that compete with global standard. The company, a brainchild of Alhaji Yahaya Kansila, a scion of the great Kansila dynasty of Kano today has in its employ no fewer than 300 technical and administrative staffers made up of sea-soned, qualified engineers. Because of due diligence employed by the company, its products are well sought after in the country and outside its shores for their durability and quality assurance.
The company’s visually appealing architectures and exotic designs of their products effectively com-pliment construction presentations.  This is not surprising for a company that is manned by competent workers that represent some of the best in the construction industry. But UYK Nig, Ltd is not about construction alone, the company is also involved in Corporate Social Responsibility for its immediate environment and a host of other communities in the Kano metropolis.
With no fewer than 300 staffers, the company has an efficient human resources department which they have found in the leadership of Mr. Sani Musa, the Administrative Manager.
The company’s entire workforce is under the direct supervision of Architect  Muhammad Garba. Oth-ers are, the Chief Operating Officer, Aliyu Abdullahi Sumaila, while its Chief Executive Officer is Usman Yahaya Kansila, who doubles as the chairman of the company’s chain of businesses.
The company started operations with the employment of experienced hands from different parts of the country and outside. However, within its few years of operations, UYK Nigeria limitedhas recorded huge staff turnover.
One of the company’s unique selling points is in its ability to employ and manage competent hands and as well provide empowerment to members of its host community and provide basic amenities to the people of Kano State. Example is that almost 300 direct staff and more than 30,000 people who draw their livelihood from the largesse of the construction firm. They include, but are not limited to skilled and unskilled labour, artisans, land owners, house owners, transporters etc, including exporters and importersof the company’s numerous products that crisscross the entire south of the Sahara.
The company also serves as an important revenue generating firm to both the Kano State government as well as the federal government. One of the beneficiaries of UYK numerous largesse, Mallam Sulaiman Shuaibu who lives in the neighborhood of the company described the construction firm as a blessing to his community, lauding its commitment to its Corporate Social Responsibility.
He said the people of the area appreciate the establishment of the company within the area because it has provided job opportunities to the teaming youths and has boost the economic activities of the locality.
Also, one Malam Yunusa Isa who resides in the same area as Sulaiman, lauded the good work of UYK Nig Ltd and commended the company’s CEO, Allhaji UsmanYahaya Kansila for making the youth of the area busy to the extent that even their services penetrate every nook and cranny of the community, thereby uplifting the living standard of the entire locality.
Madam Ruth, a shop vendor, was also full of prayers for the owners of the company for their courage and endurance in keeping the company alive, even in the face of the current COVID-19 pandemic,a situation which she says has ameliorated the sufferings of many youths and widows in her community.
“There’s no day we don’t pray for the owners of the company, especially those ofus who have been here for long. We know how it was beforeandhow things are now.May Allah continue to shower the owners of the company with blessing’’, she said.
No doubt, UYK has brought smiles to the faces of the people of the community and it is hoped that the company will continue to grow from strength to strength in the years ahead in its service to humanity.