By AZA MSUE, Kaduna Thousands of mourners on Sunday evening attended the prayers of the late Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Dr. Shehu Idris at his palace in Zaria. The Emir died in the early hours of Sunday at 44 Army Reference hospital, Kaduna after a brief illness. Dignitaries and the late Emir’s subjects filled the palace as Alhaji Shehu Idris buried today at 5pm. The Kaduna State Government in a condolence message, said that the late Emir of Zazzau, His Royal Higness Dr. Shehu Idris, CFR, had offered distinguished service to the state for over six decades in various roles, culminating in his ascension to the throne in 1975. In a statement signed by the Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Mr Muyiwa Adekeye on Sunday, Governor Nasir El-Rufai said that the Emir of Zazzau died in hospital in the early hours of Sunday. The governor condoled the family of the late Emir and the people of Zazzau Emirate. According to the statement, “throughout his long reign of 45 years,HRH Dr. Shehu Idris worked hard for the people of Zazzau Emirate. He offered wise counsel and was committed to the goals of improving health outcomes for all our people, raising school enrolment and peace and security in the state.’’ “He demonstrates dedication in his roles as chairman of the Kaduna State Council of Chiefs and a member of the State Security Council. “The state will miss his experience, institutional memory and wisdom.We pray Allah to grant him aljanah firdaus,’’ the statement added. Earlier, governor Nasir El-Rufai said: “I have informed the President Muhammdu Buhari, GCFR of the great loss and offered our condolences. The Chief of Staff to PMB, Prof Ibrahim Gambari will lead a Federal Government delegation to Zaria to condole with the family of His Royal Highness, Zazzau Emirate Council and the people of Zazzau Emirate and Kaduna State. We have lost a rare gem, a source of wisdom and guidance and a true father of all. May Allah Grant his soul abode in Aljanna Firdaus. Amin. – Nasir El-Rufai
May Aljanat Firdausi be his final and eternal abode”