‘If you want to be successful, find someone who has achieved the results you wish to achieve, and then copy what he does and you will surely achieved the same results’ – Tony Robbins (American author and motivational speaker) The Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) mission is to provide focused and transformative intervention in public tertiary institutions of learning in Nigeria through funding and effective project implementation. This has been the main objective of the management team led by the Executive Secretary, Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro, which is to equip and provide world-standard and world-class amenities and infrastructure in public tertiary education institutions across the length and breadth of Nigeria thereby making Nigerian students compete favourably with their counterparts globally. In carrying out this noble assignment, TETFund is reaching out to all the (6) Geo-political zones in the country and the South East Nigeria is not an exception. Professor Bogoro believes strongly in the words of John F. Kennedy (the 35th President of the United States) of America who said ‘The goal of true education is the advancement of knowledge and dissemination of the truth’ and and Malcolm X (human rights activist) also opines ‘Education is our passport to the future, for tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today’. As TETfund has done in the North Central and South West higher institutions, it has also taken its revolutionary initiatives to the South East making sure no part of Nigeria is left behind as far as education intervention is concerned. At Abia State University (ABSU) Uturu, TETfund under the visionary leadership of Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro procured, installed, tested and commissioned the Science Laboratory and Engineering departments comprising Civil Engineering, 1Nr Shear centre machine, 1Nr Sieve shaker, 1Nr dry Oven 136L. Through the 2019 zonal intervention fund, Abia State Polytechnic can now boast of 2Nr Digital Trainer System, 2Nr Electronic Fundamental Trainer and 1Nr Experimental Trainer Electrical circuit. The same 2019 zonal intervention fund has seen to the procurement, installation, testing and commissioning of Laboratory Equipment for various departments, one  of which is Mass Communication department at the Abia State Polytechnic, Aba. Abia State College of Education (Technical) Arochukwu through the interventionist efforts of Professor Bogoro and his team has witnessed the renovation of its Technical Education workshop comprising Building Technology Workshop, Wooden Workshop, Metal/ Automobile Workshop Hall, offices and stores. There is also the procurement, installation and commissioning of various equipment comprising Chemistry Laboratory, 1no Electric Bench, Top Drilling Machine, Rotary Evaporator, RE.2000D 1NG Nitrogen Generator NG 300 and 1Nr Aumma 11cKjecolahl Nitrogen Analyzer. All these came through the 2019 Annual Merged Mintervention Project.
At the Federal Polytechnic, Oko, there was procurement, installation, testing and commissioning of various ICT Equipment (Desktop and Laptops 1-H and delivery to site, 1Nr 30 seater Toyota Bus and procurement, installation, testing and commissioning of 800KVA sound proof generator and accessories as well as supply, installation, testing and commissioning of one solar panel inverter and cooling system as part of 2019 Special Intervention. There was construction and furnishing of academic building for School of Languages, 4Nr laboratory, 5Nr meeting rooms, 39 Offices (with 5No Ensuite), the construction of auditorium building with 420-seat capacity hall, construction and furnishing of Music Theater Building 350-seat capacity, 1No Conference Room, (renovation) of students Hostels all at the Nwafor Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe. There was also the 2019 zonal intervention projects like the procurement, installation, testing and commissioning of 150Nr 6 in 1 students Lecture Hall desk (4800mm+750mm furnished with mahogamy, 140 armless office chair, 20 executive table and procurement of 40 No HP Desktop computers with 4GB Ram 500GB. Others are procurement, installation, testing and commissioning of various agricultural equipment, science and laboratory equipment, including 1No MFS Tractor, motorized sprayer which are also part of the 2019 zonal intervention. Through TETFund transformative intervention, Ebonyi State University, Abakaliki benefitted from the construction of 3-storey Faculty of Education Building which has 22Nr Faculty Auditorium, 24Nr classrooms, 8Nr laboratory, 1Nr Faculty Conference Room, 60Nr Offices and 14Nr Toilets. There was also the construction of 8 classrooms pavilion with offices for Faculty of Sciences comprising 8Nr Lecture Hall and 12Nr offices. The university through the 2016/2017/2018/2019 Annual Merged Intervention benefitted from the procurements and installation of 500 Nr lecture collapsible seats with writing platform, back rest and iron-framed stand for Faculties of Sciences comprising 1000Nr semi-Executive arm chairs. The unrelenting efforts of Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro and his team of erudite scholars yielded positive result at the Alex Ekwueme Federal University Ndufu Alike Ikwo with the construction of 1Nr (2floor) one-storey building for Igbo Centre, construction and furnishing of 1Nr (2Floor) one storey building for Faculty of Education which comprises 34Nr offices, constructioning and furnishing of One-storey Law Library, construction and furnishing of 1Nr French Centre Building and the construction and commission of equipment for Department of Civil Engineering all through the 2017/2019 Annual Intervention. At Ebonyi State College of Education Ikwo, TETFund  through the 2019 Zonal Intervention procured, installed, tested and commissioned equipment for Agriculture Education and Primary Education Departments, 1Nr Tractor (John Deere row crop and 1 Motorized sprayer 15-25 Kg/m pressure, procured and commissioned  equipment for Medical Centre. TETFund also procured and commissioned equipment for Physics, Geography and Biology Departments. Enugu State Polytechnic Iwollo through its 2019 Annual Intervention benefitted from the construction of a 2 storey (ground and first floor building comprising 4Nr class rooms and 8Nr Offices. The intervention covered the procurement and installation of furniture for Technology, Anatomy and Physiology Laboratories and also Horticultural Technology, Computer Laboratory, Banking and Finance, Accounting and Statistics Departments. It is the same story at Federal College of Education, Eha-Amufu, there was the construction of two storey School of Vocational and Technical Education, 30Nr Laboratories, supply and installation and furnishing for school of Directorate for Degree Program, procurement of 1Nr Toyota Hilux Model Shell Spec (2019), supply, installation of furniture for school of Vocational and Technical Education, 312Nr full upholstery single-seater collapsible-seat, all through the 2019 Special High Impact Intervention. At the Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO), Imo State, TETFund built Pilot Plant Development Building for the Department of Food Science and Technology, constructed the Research and Technology Park Block (A), constructed Research and Technology park Block (B) core administrative Building, Including 45Nr conference seats. The construction of dual carriage 1km Access road 18.00m wide comprising 3.00m median and 1.50m shoulder each, was also part of the 2019 Special Intervention for FUTO. At the Imo State University, Owerri, there was construction and furnishing of Faculty of Health Science building, 12Nr laboratories, 16No lecture Halls and 5 No Offices and others through the 2019 Special Intervention. Federal Polytechnic Nekede is also not left out of TETFund’s giant strides as a result of supply, fixing and installation of classroom block for School of Humanities and Social Science, 282Nr class room seats, furnishing and fixing of remodeling of School of Environmental Design Technology comprising 478Nr classroom seats and the procurement, installation, testing and fixing of all in one computer to the Computer Rooms of the School of Environmental Design Technology, 80 No all in one Intel core. All made possible through the 2017, 2018 and 2019 Annual Merged Intervention.
The Imo State Polytechnic, Umuagwo, through the 2019 Special Intervention fund saw to the construction and furnishing of two-storey Central Workshop Building, comprising of 4Nr workshops, the supply, installation of furniture for the Workshop Building comprising 65 Nr HP Desktop computers, 468 Ram 500 HDD, procurement, installation, testing and commissioning of various equipment for Faculty of Engineering which comprises 1Nr Hydraulic Bench made of fiber glass bench top features, open channel and measuring tank. In the words of Andrew Carnegie, a Scottish-American industrialist and philanthropist (1835-1919), “Teamwork is the ability to work together towards a common vision and the ability to direct individual accomplishments toward organizational objectives. It is the fuel that allows common people to attain uncommon results.”
Carnegie’s valuable quotes is the driving force behind Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro and his team at TETFund and with this type of healthy relationship, it is believed that the fund will surely deliver on its mandate to make Nigeria higher institutions global brands in the comity of nations. TETFund’s transformative and revolutionary initiatives in South East higher institutions of learning have brought to bear the doggedness of the team to deliver on the Change Agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. Bogoro has also proven that as a traditional title holder “the Ekwueme of Aboh Mbaise” meaning a man whose word is his bond, he is walking his talk as far as infrastructure, content and research development are concerned in his quest of taking Nigeria tertiary institutions of learning to the Mountain top. -Fatai wrote in from Abuja and can be reached on fataiib5@gmail.com