By Michael Oche, Abuja Executive Director of Peering Advocacy and Advancement Centre in Africa (PAACA), Ezenwa Nwagwu has said individuals accusing organised labour of selling out following the decision to suspend its planned strike action, should also organise themselves and come out to protest “Who and what is holding the strike mongers from protesting?” Mr Ezenwa said in an interview with journalists in Abuja. Mr Ezenwa said the continued reliance on trade unions to lead mass struggles is a set-up and reflects the inherent weakness in Civic and political organizations who make the loudest noise with troops. He said they are quick to accuse labour of capitulation and selling out and yet are incapable of mobilising their family members to the barricade independently. He said, “When issues aren’t purely trade disputes, they ought to be led by other mass organization or the political opposition who continually hide their inherent collective weakness by always putting labour in front. The African National Congress (ANC) led the struggle against apartheid not COSATU.” The PAACA boss said besides, strike option is a means, not an end, stressing that labour ultimately works to win concession primarily for it’s members through the instrument of collective bargaining. According to him, “it is fool hardiness to think of getting into negotiation with the aim of getting everything, you get some and lose some. I think the leadership of labour has done very well. Government buckled and made concessions to stave off the strike which is a testament to the strength of the labour movement.” Reacting to insinuations that labour is weak, ha said, “What would a strong labour do differently? embark on strike for the sake of it? weak or strong labour must ultimately come to  negotiation, must reach understanding and agreement. Mr Ezenwa said the current crisis is a fall out the mis-steps of the Jonathan administration, accusing the administration of former President of selling electricity to themselves through dubious privatization. He said, “that’s why the PDP as opposition cannot step forward. The absence of credible, trusted opposition leaves a yawning gap for the struggle for better living condition for our people.” 