By Anthony Ada Abraham, Former House of Representative member, Hon Mohammed Garba Gololo, who represented Gamawa  Federal Constituency has called on party faithfuls to rally round the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni . He made this call while speaking with some select newsmen in Abuja. According to him, Gov. Buni has shown that he has what it takes to take the party to the next level while making sure he brings all warring parties together for the progress of the party. Hon. Gololo called on other party faithfuls to join hands in supporting the chairman’s efforts in taking the party to a greater height. He stated: “My take in regards to the current All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership under the able chairmanship of the incumbent Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni is nothing but appreciation for doing a wonderful job in bringing party members together. “When you take a look at when his committee was inaugurated, he’s been able to attract lots of personalities that have previously opted out of the party or are aggrieved with the party. He’s been working on bringing people back to the party like his Excellency, the former speaker of House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara. “You can see that Mai Mala Buni has been able to convince and bring him and couple of others back to the party. You also can see the internal crisis we used to have, is no more as we are now one big family, embracing each other and forging new alliance. “We should appreciate the leadership of the party for doing a wonderful job, that tells you that he understands the workings of the party. Don’t forget he was the immediate national secretary of the party and he’s already used to the terrain. Even the coming elections in Ondo and Edo, we are optimistic that victory is ours. With him at the helm of affairs, our two candidates in Ondo and Edo can be rest assured that victory is theirs,” he said. Hon. Gololo also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for given the party leadership an open hand to bring aggrieved members together, which he explained has shown his fatherly love and concern for all. 