The All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders have backed earlier decision by the Niger State government to close Bida-Minna road to articulated vehicles. The group in a statement by the secretary, Yahaya Mustapha on behalf of APC Stakeholders Bida/Gbako/Katcha Federal Constituency and made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday, said that the deplorable condition of Bida – Minna road has been one of the greatest nightmares to the people and government of Niger State. It said that the road, though a state road, witnesses on daily basis a very high volume of vehicular traffic especially articulated ones that ply it as a shortcut between many states in the northern part of the country and the southern part. “The unceasing and frustrating flow of traffic of these heavy trucks has led to total dilapidation of the road, thereby converting it to a deadly route for the teeming masses of our community in particular and other Nigerians in who ply the road. “When the state government took the decision to close the road to such vehicles, it was a big sigh of relieve for our people. To us, the Government of Niger State took the bull by the horn in her bid to ensure uninterrupted rehabilitation of the road. “APC Stakeholders of Bida/Gbako/Katcha Federal Constituency deliberated extensively on the outcry and complaints by various groups, especially our teeming youths, on the condition of Bida- Minna road. While the decision of the Niger State Government to close the road to heavy vehicles was acknowledged and greatly applauded, we are dismayed and disappointed with the pressure mounted by the Federal Authorities to reopen the road to these vehicles. “This option will not only jeopardise the lives of our citizens but also undermine the ongoing rehabilitation work on the road.  It is ironic that the federal coercion is coming at the time we expect the federal authorities to come to the aid of the State Government due to the challenges being faced on the overused road. It is also expected that the federal authorities will hasten work on the Lambata-Lapai-Bida Road. “We therefore, unequivocally stand by the earlier decision taken by the state government on closure of Bida-Minna road. We urge, with deep sense of humility, the state government to stand by the early pronouncement to close the road to all articulated vehicles. This is to avoid any drastic, but peaceful action by the restive youths and indeed the entire community. “We are calling on the government to within five days (20th -24th September, 2020) close the road to save our lives and provide the needed environment to face the rehabilitation of the road.  We can no longer sit and watch our people suffer in silence nor tolerate glaring discomfort and continuous (but avoidable) fatal accidents. “We remain committed to the dictates of our people, supportive of our dear state government and loyal to the Federal Government of Nigeria”, the statement reads in part. 