By ANDREW ESSIEN ABUJA The former governor of Imo State, Sen. Rochas Okoroacha has tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to adopt the “hire and fire” mechanism to the governance of the nation if the dividends of democracy is to rapid get to the populace. Sen. Okorocha who represents Imo West senatorial district in the national assembly, lamented that the wheels of governance could move much more faster if persons in sensitive positions were doing as expected. He further called on the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to, as a matter of urgency, return party to how things were at the formation stage adding that the continuous loss of APC states to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) especially with the recent loss of Edo state, insisted that the trend cannot continue. Speaking when the leadership of the Integrity Group, an umbrella body of the Non-NWC NEC members of the party paid him a visit in his Abuja office, Okorocha expressed worry over the obliteration of the APC in the south-south region, even as he blamed the leadership of the party for neglecting the founding fathers of the party. ” I must say here that what works in most developed countries is hire and fire which brings discipline in the system. There is nothing as bad as persons who occupy government positions and are not working but are kept for sentiment basis. They should be fired to create room for those who can perform. There is nobody on earth who is Alpha and Omega, if you can’t do the job, be sure that someone can do it. “we no longer have what i term as collective responsibility, rather we have selfish responsibility where leaders are busy thinking the next election and what positions they can occupy instead of thinking about the dividends of democracy as it should affect the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. ” We therefore come back to the root of the problem in our party because the very people who worked for the success of the party, are the ones that have been neglected, rather, those who came yesterday have taken over. This is why there is so much anger from the ward level to the national. “Those who have been empowered, have refused to empower others from the ward to the national level. The issue of empowerment is empower one person so that he can empower others but those who have been empowered now have new friends and neglected the foot soldiers and at the end od the day, it is President Muhammadu Buhari that takes the brunt. ‘” This is why i advice that we go back to the drawing board and some of this laudable projects should be extended to the party, I do not see any ward chairman and his 26 members who cannot farm under the anchor-borrower program. So, policies of our government are just hanging and do not get to the grassroots. Owners of our party are not participating in the running of the party. Earlier, the leader of the Integrity Group, an umbrella body of the Non-NWC members of the APC, Sadiq Abubakar insisted that the crisis currently bedevilling the party is the lack of a concrete reward system for loyal party members.