The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Campaign Council for Edo Governorship Election has condemned what it said is an attempt by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to swindle voters in Edo State with the disbursement of Micro Enterprise Enhancement Scheme (MEES). The PDP campaign while describing the disbursement as a desperate resort to underhand measure, said it has further exposed the fact that the APC has lost confidence in the ability of its candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, to command any genuine vote on Saturday. The party added that such illicit and scandalous enterprise avail nothing, as the people of Edo State cannot be bought. A statement by the secretary, Publicity Sub-Committee of the campaign, Kola Ologbondiyan, said, “Shameful attempt to beguile the people and buy their conscience is an unpardonable insult to the sensibilities of the good people of Edo State. “Such corrupt approach has further wrecked the integrity of the APC and its damaged candidate and distanced them the more from Edo voters. “More distressing is that the APC, in its desperation, is shamelessly trying to use the Micro Enhancement Scheme to introduce diabolic measures and derail the electoral process,” Ologbondiyan said. “Worse still, the plan by the APC is that the unsuspecting participants, who will be promised sums of money to assist in compromising the election, will be abandoned after their voters cards have been collected and left to their fate, when apprehended. “The PDP Campaign however commends the leaders and citizens of Edo State, in various communities for condemning and rejecting this satanic plot by the APC to buy the people and compromise the sanctity of the election.” In a related development, PDP lampooned APC and Ize-Iyamu over their inability to hold their campaign grand finale yesterday, saying it is a clear signal that they have given up. The PDP campaign asserted that the APC and Ize-Iyamu have been weighed down and completely overwhelmed by the soaring popularity of Governor Godwin Obaseki across the state and had no option other than to abandon their campaign. “We have been made aware that the APC campaign also collapsed under the weight of a bitter division within their ranks over alleged apprehensions of Ize-Iyamu’s possible disqualification due to unresolved legal issues surrounding his nomination; a development for which very influential APC leaders in Edo State as well as APC governors abandoned the campaign,” the party said. 