By Francis Okoye, Maiduguri Borno State Governor, Babagana Umara Zulum, on Wednesday declined the naming of an orchard after himself by the Ministry of Environment. The Governor however, directed the orchard located at the Borno State University to be named after his predecessor, Senator Kashim Shettima. He said:“The Commissioner had just announced naming of the University orchard after me, instead, I have directed the orchard to be named after my predecessor. He established this University and therefore, in recognition of his tremendous achievements, I personally want to name this orchard after His Excellency, Senator Kashim Shettima”. Governor Zulum was speaking during a flag off of 1,000,000 tree planting campaign across the state in response to changing ecosystem and climate conditions. “This year’s tree planting campaign which is the first of its kind in the last ten years become necessary due to pressures from desertification, deforestation, soil erosion, poverty, and insecurity, Zulum noted. The Governor added that human activities like bush burning, illegal tree felling has continuously put pressure on the already fragile ecosystem thereby threatening food security. Governor Zulum expressed concern on the desertification facing Borno State, stating that his administration is committed to reversing the scenario. The Governor further said, “Government has already commenced raising of some seedlings, with the annual one kilometre desert reclamation programme which is handled by the Ministry of Environment. Zulum also announced a policy under which all construction should be accompanied by planting of trees to cushion the environmental impacts of such developmental projects. Besides, the governor also made a symbolic presentation of an alternative source of energy to firewood in form of gas cookers and wood-efficient stoves. The campaign which kicked off at the Borno State University premises after more than 10 years was attended by the Deputy Governor, Umar Usman Kadafur, Chief of Staff, Government House, Prof. Isa Hussaini Marte, Head of Service Barr. Simon Malgwi among other top government officials. Earlier, the Commissioner of Environment, Hon. Modu Lawan Buba Walama said one million assorted trees including those with commercial values will be planted in nine local government areas. 