By Anthony Ada Abraham, The Leadership of the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has backed the decision of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) to deregister about 22 Computer Based Test (CBT) Operators over the allegation of extortion. JAMB Registrar, Professor Is-haq Oloyede had in a Zoom meeting on August 27, proscribed the 22 CBT centres for allegedly “bypassing the system and charging the students as much as N5,000 for a process which they were licensed to charge N200 only.” However, the President of the Computer-Based Test Centres Proprietors Association in Nigeria, Maxwell Akwuruoha had accused the Registrar of undermining the CBT operators so as to build its mega centres across the country. Reacting to this, the leadership of NYCN under its President, Amb Sukubo Seraigbe Sukubo said it’ll not allow Akwuruoha to drag the Nigerian youths into his well deserved travails. His statement Reads: “Our attention at the Secretariat of the National Youth Council of Nigeria, has been drawn to certain falsehoods being peddled by one Maxwell Akwuruoha, who is parading himself as the purported President of the Computer Based Centers Proprietors Association in Nigeria, against the person of the Registrar of Joint Admission and Matriculations Board, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede and on the Integrity of the teeming Nigerian Youth. In a Press Conference organised by the Leadership of the NYCN, the Council President; Amb Sukubo Seraigbe Sukubo said “Maxwell Akwuruoha, whose status as a self -appointed President of a body of CBT Centers’ Owners has been summarily denied by several proprietors of CBT Centers, dared to suggest that Prof. Oloyede was executing a plot to undermine CBT operators to build JAMB mega centers across the country. “The National Youth Council of Nigeria has been a worthy partner of JAMB and had worked alongside Prof. Ishaq Oloyede in reforming the hitherto badly run drainpipe that JAMB had become under previous leadership, while consolidating on the migration to the use of technology, even at a time some beneficiaries of the old order were claiming that Nigeria is not ripe for technology based testing. “Nigerians are aware of the more transparent manner in which the examinations are now conducted and results disseminated, as attested to by the broad range of stakeholders that are involved in the process on different levels of supervision and observation, which the NYCN has actively participated. “Without even going into describing the person of Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, who is well known for his unwavering dedication to defending and promoting the laws in every capacity he has served in the Nigerian public service, it must be put on record that the said Akwuruoha is a questionable character and lacks the locus standi to speak on behalf of CBT operators in Nigeria. It is a verifiable fact that he is not currently an owner of a CBT Center, having been blacklisted for serially and intentionally violating the rules of engagement as provided by JAMB. “For such a questionable character to purport to speak on behalf of such group, with a noble assignment in helping to mold the Nigeria leaders of tomorrow, is a travesty of all known principles of justice and fairness. It is a matter of public knowledge that the management of JAMB had exercised its right, in the interest of preserving the integrity of its processes, to axe erring centers in a clear breach of express procedural instructions they had been given. “For anybody, no less a serial violator of JAMB rules who had been so punished appropriately, suggest that it was a witch -hunt born of sinister motives is an unpatriotic act that is tantamount to an attempt to undermine and circumvent the best interests of the long –term sustainability of the state. “While we acknowledge that there were some errors, on the part of JAMB’s technical services provider, as happens from time to time even under the watch of technology giants, there is no excuse for the CBT operators to have circumvented the process and capitalize on the loophole to exploit Nigerian youth. The CBT operators involved should count themselves lucky that they were only axed from JAMB and that they were not sued for attempting to smear and defame the good name of JAMB as an organization. “The management of JAMB, for the record has performed creditably well and given the organization a human face, while making it easier for all stakeholders to access the Board that in turn onboard and resolve them satisfactorily.”  