Taraba State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ibrahim El-Sudi has stated that despite the exit of former Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Alhassan, the fortunes of the party in the state remains strong. He insisted that the former Minister has since lost the control of the states political structure adding that any other declaration untoward, was a media hype. El – Sudi, tafterold journalists after a meeting between party stakeholders and the chairman of APC National Caretaker and Extra Ordinary Congress Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja. He however stated that the stakeholders met with the party’s leadership to discuss the problems confronting the APC in his state, adding that the chairman he promised to wage in and reconcile all aggrieved members. “We brought the problem of Taraba State to the Caretaker Committee for them to look into with the view to solving same. “After addressing the Chairman and the Committee, he has assured us that they are going to look into the plights of Taraba APC with the view to solving the plethora of issues that are hanging on the air.” On possibilities of the party having a blow from the former Minister exit, El – Sudi stated “that’s a press hype. As you can see, all the Juggernauts, movers and shakers of APC are behind me. So, one person cannot destroy or do anything to APC. “After all, when she moved to another party and contested! for governor, how many vote did she get? She got 16,000 plus. APC got over three hundred and forty something thousand votes. So, her movement has not shaken APC in Taraba State. It is in the heart of Tarabans that they want APC and they will continue to support APC.” On the performance of the caretaker committee so far, he said, “You can see that there is relative peace within the APC all over the country. And the chairman is a tested and trusted leader. He was a secretary in his state. He was chairman of another party in his state. And, he was the national secretary. So, he knows the plethora of problems inundating the party and he has already taken steps towards solving most of these problems. The period is enough. If it is not enough, it should be added in his capacity to solve the problem confronting APC.” 