Among notable Nigerian jewelers none has frequently been in the spotlight in the past few years like Stephen Efobi Obiajulu, CEO, ObisGallery, who has carved a niche for himself as an extraordinary jewel designer. The young jeweler, recently declared that it is not by chance that he is in the jewelry business. “My family has a history in gemstones business and gold mining since as far back as my great-grandfather who was a gold merchant in Maiduguri where he grew up,” he explained. He continued: “It became an inherited business line for my family. But over the years, we have improved on it, bringing us to this point where we run the business as Obisgallery.” On the profitability of the jewelry business, Obiajulu who is better known by his business name, ObisGallery offered an insight: “Every business, to be honest, is highly profitable. As seasoned business people often say, it’s the drive and hard work that makes a business.”
He said further: “I am fuelled by that drive and that’s what has brought me to this point today and that’s what is still pushing me.” Obiajulu, who has specific expertise in customized gems, has been the leading designer of rings, pendants, chokers and other bling stuff for top entertainment stars and eminent individuals in the society.
“I had a vision to be one of the biggest names in jewelry in Africa,” he said of his dream when he was starting out in the business.
“So far, I am moving and on course,” he claimed. Drawing from his experience, he offered tips on what it takes to grow in the jewelry business. “Offer good quality at a fair price,” he advised, “and make sure you have an excellent team in place, from designer to jeweler, because the beauty of jewelry is in the detail, your staff need to understand the benefits of detailings.” In other to strengthen the business on the continent, ObisGallery avowed that jewelers need to come together.
“One brand can’t build an industry. Gemstones abound on this continent; with the right mindset and coordination, we could double the wealth in the jewelry industry,” he stated. For those dreaming of a career as a jeweler, he offered this piece of advice: “It’s no child’s play; make sure you have a solid plan and be ready to stick with it.” ObisGallery further added: “Ensure you have a solid business etiquette and excellent customer relations, you will need both a lot of the time.”