Orjime Moses, Abuja Senator Kabiru Marafa of Zamfara state has advised his former governor, Abdulazeez Yari to stop misleading the Mai Mala Buni led APC reconciliation committee stating that such act will not help the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. Marafa who was responding to allegation by Yari that he helped him to emerged senator, insisted that he has political cloud than the former governor. Marafa who said he assisted Yari to become governor in 2011, challenged the former governor to join another polititical party outside the APC and the PDP to prove his popularity. “I am not surprised by that statement coming from Yari and am not bothered, if he says all is well with APC in Zamfara I agree with him, let us wait for round two,” Marafa said, advising the Gov Mai Mala Buni led APC not to go to sleep because of some sweet statement from some of it’s members. “All I know is the committee is already failing, and they are failing because they are listening to the likes of Yari who always speak from the two sides of their mouth. There are a few good people in the committee that means well to the party and I advise them to wake up and do what they are asked to do and leave the politics of 2023. “Nobody can bring the position of national chairman to the North now. The moves by some within the governors forum to hijack the party and install a serving governor to succeed President Buhari will crash, ” Marafa said. On the allegation by Yari that reconciling with Marafa will do no good to the party as he is a part and parcel of the PDP government in Zamfara, the former lawmaker said he is equally not bothered by whether someone wants to reconcile with him or not adding that he is comfortable and at peace with himself. “I am still in the APC because I choose to, not because of fear of prosecution. I am part and parcel of the efforts that produced APC. The party did nothing to me, I did everything to it. All the political troubles I faced are traceable to my support for APC. Remember the 8th National Assembly leadership crisis? Remember how Yari scuttled the APC plan? I was a senator of the Federal Republic when APC was formed, I contributed immensely to its success. “Let me put the record straight. In 2011 when Yari was desperate to become governor, he came to my house in my village, the night PDP fraudulently denied me ticket in favour of the then incumbent Senator. Yari begged me to accept their ticket (ANPP) which at that time meant nothing looking at the fact that the federal, state and local governments were all under the firm control of the PDP. “He didn’t brought the ticket to my house because he loved me, ANPP offered me ticket because they where desperate to win the election. He pleaded with me to contest because he knew I have people behind me, they loved me and the people of Zamfara Central demonstrated their love for me by giving me 100,000 votes over and above the incumbent senator. The incumbent Senator got 93,000 votes and I got 203,000 votes. “Sen Yarima who came from the same zone with Yari won marginally with less than 7,000 votes, PDP’s Sen Sahabi Ya’u won the other zone with a margin of about 10,000 votes. So, i brought the winning votes! The records are there, and the situation is still the same. It’s after he spent eight years as governor that he thought he was strong enough to uproot me but God taught him the lesson of his life. Or do you think it is easy for a poor senator to challenge a sitting governor, chairman governors’ forum with unlimited resources from his state, Paris Club and all other clubs you can think of? He could not for instance as a sitting governor match my rally. He in fact could not organize one, my rally was played live on NTA go and find out, i defeated him hands-down,” Marafa said. “I am used to taking risk. I took risk with him (Yari) in 2011, I can still take risk today, I challenge him (Yari) to come out and take risk. What is he doing in APC? He is only afraid of EFCC because of the atrocities he committed as a governor and chairman of NGF, let me and him pick two different political parties other than the ruling party and contest election and see who will win,” Marafa added.