The global humanitarian system cannot meet the demands imposed by an increasing incidence of large-scale natural disasters, terrorism, banditry and regional conflicts. The over a decade war against insurgency in the Northeast part of Nigeria has resulted in a huge humanitarian crisis which the government and non-governmental organisations have been battling. In many countries, especially in West Africa, this gap is resolved proactively by using professionals in various security sectors who are the primary responders in the event of a disaster; these responders include the police and the military which entail penetrating hostile airspace, via the employment of air power. Indeed, supporting disaster relief is now an integral function of contemporary air forces, with typical roles entailing rapid response and medical assistance, logistical support, air traffic response, aid distribution, protection and recovery in natural disasters. While the primary responsibility for disaster response lies with civilian agencies at local, state and federal levels, oftentimes it is the military that has the manpower, equipment, training and organisation necessary to effectively execute relief operations during crises. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF), in living up to its constitutional role of providing military aid to civil authority, has continued to provide support during various crises by conducting medical outreaches and other humanitarian services as well as conducting airlift missions to convey medical equipment, food and other supplies to areas where they are most needed. To this end, in recent times the NAF has shuttled over 500 tonnes of food, medicine, and other relief materials within and outside the country, to support victims of natural disasters like floods as well as complex humanitarian challenges resulting from terrorism and insurgency The Service has also contributed immensely to Nigeria’s response in combating the COVID-19 pandemic both within Nigeria and around the West African sub-region The NAF C-130 Hercules aircraft, in March 2020, airlifted medical materials donated by the Jack Ma Foundation, China, for tackling COVID-19 in Nigeria, from the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja In April 2020, the NAF also airlifted medical equipment and supplies donated by the Turkish Government to Nigeria from MMIA, Lagos to NAIA, Abuja. The donated medical items, which consisted of several boxes of equipment, medications and other supplies, weighing about 4,000 Kg, were airlifted by a NAF C-130 Hercules aircraft. Furthermore, in August, 2020 the NAF also commenced the airlift of thousands of medical materials and other consumables, procured by the West African Health Organization (WAHO) for subsequent distribution to 14 member nations of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Nigeria inclusive, to curtail the spread of COVID-19. Perhaps the most touching humanitarian relief operation conducted by the NAF, is the most recent airlift of food and non-food relief items for delivery to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Borno State. The four-day operation, which was conducted in coordination with the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development as well as the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), involved the airlift of over 120 tonnes of supplies including 26,067 of 12.5kg bags of parboiled rice, 26,067 of 12.5kg bags of beans, 26,067 of 12.5kg bags of maize/millet, 1,304 of 20kg bags of iodized salt, 2,607 of 20L kegs of vegetable oil, 4,345 cartons of seasoning cubes and 2,173 cartons of tomato puree. A significant additional feature of the humanitarian operation was the introduction of the airdropping of supplies to IDPs in difficult to reach locations of Borno State. The objective of employing the airdrop method of delivery is to overcome the challenges faced by Government Agencies and Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) due to terrain and flooding, amongst others. Basically, airdropping is a type of airlift, developed during World War II, to resupply inaccessible troops. Early airdrops were conducted by dropping or pushing padded bundles from aircraft. Later airdrop techniques entailed pushing small crates with parachutes out of the aircraft side cargo doors. Subsequently, cargo aircraft were designed with rear access ramps which can be fit in flight that allowed large platforms to be rolled out the back. For instance, the United States Air Force (USAF) conducted Humanitarian Assistance airdrops in Northern Iraq, Bosnia, and Afghanistan. The USAF airdropped tonnes of urgently needed UNHCR relief supplies in December 2006, for thousands of refugees affected by flooding in north-east Kenya. Similarly, in peacekeeping operations or humanitarian aid situations, food and medical supplies are often airdropped from the United Nations and other aircraft. With the adoption of this approach, IDPs in Borno State will now be able to receive airdrops of relief items from the Government. The minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouk, on 6 September, 2020 in Maiduguri explained that both food and non-food items would be airdropped to the IDPs. She said the technique was adopted to ensure that the displaced persons who are trapped in areas that cannot be accessed due to the insurgency, terrain, or other issues get relief materials to alleviate their suffering. The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who was represented by the Commander Air Task Force, Operation Lafiya Dole, Air Commodore Precious Amadi, who was in charge of the airlifting and airdropping operation, said that the NAF would continue to employ its aircraft to ensure succour is brought to those IDPs in remote locations identified by the state government. Through its airlift operations, the NAF ensures that the government provides succour to our most vulnerable citizens. In doing so, the NAF has fulfilled part of its statutory responsibility of providing aid to civil authority. Also, humanitarian airlift operations are not only an alternative to combat operations, but also a supplement to them. Above all, humanitarian airlifts have demonstrated that the military has useful peacetime roles by helping to provide succour to vulnerable citizens.