LThe Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria
(PSN) has called on Nigerian medical re- searchers and the citizenry to develop more interest in herbal medicine as alter- native to the healthcare delivery system in the country. The national president of PSN, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, made this call when he led the leadership of the society on a facil- ity tour of STK Biotech Factory at Umuo- ba, Uratta, Owerri North local government area of Imo State, even as he commended the company for the provision of supple- ments that complement the treatment of HIV and diabetic patients.
He described STK Biotech as an emerg-
ing third generation company geared to- wards producing affordable nature driven drugs and supplements from bioresources in the African continent.
Ohuabunwa said that research for the production of the medicines met interna- tional standards, especially as the compa- ny procured their raw materials locally and within the West African sub-region.
The PSN president, however, expressed dismay that Nigerians prefer western med- icine to the detriment of herbal medicine, stressing that both should be used com- plementarily.
“The problem with our healthcare sys- tem is that we abandoned our own natural heritage and wholly embraced the western medicine without having the equipment
and facilities to handle same. What I’ve seen here at STK Biotech is what we ought to be doing as a country, using herbs and trees we have to produce affordable nature- driven drugs and supplements.
“We have the human and material re- sources to achieve whatever we set our minds to do; we are blessed with a rich variety of herbs and trees which will be cheaper to produce here, makes us self- reliant in such critical area of national de- velopment, and saves us a lot of foreign exchange in the importation of products,” he said.
While commending the management of the company for its effort to extend pro- fessionalism and increase manpower in the area of natural medicine, Ohuabunwa
called for training of more people in tradi- tional medicine to help tackle the numer- ous health challenges in Africa.
“This is what we should do to help our- selves. But, unfortunately, Africa has re- mained aloof in the funding of traditional medicine research. Africa needs to devel- op our traditional medicine and make it cheap.
“I am particularly happy that apart from solving our medical problems, you are cre- ating jobs through a long chain.
“I hope the government would encour- age you because you are creating jobs for citizens. The amount the governors use as security votes should be shared by two and given to people like you who are solving problems in the society,” he added.