Life should be lived in phases; you can never be ahead of your destiny. What you are and what you would become has been written and ordained by the celestial king, struggling endlessly to be ahead of your divine provision amounts to wrestling with the wind. Wherever you are today is where God says you should be. My mate is making it is not a measure of your existence, the day you begin to compare yourself to the bar of others, that day begins your descent to despondency, worries and sadness. No two destinies are tied together; that we were classmates does not mean we are to be seen in comparative lanes. Everyone sails differently on the boat of life. If you don’t wish to be like your dead classmates, then there is no basis hitting your head measuring your wish with your other mates living and making it in life – for everyone, there is a time to shine. Rather than worry yourself about what you don’t have or where you haven’t been, why not take stock of what you have accomplished? Using riches to measure your accomplishments is the highest display of ingratitude – the best tool of life’s measurement is happiness. Happiness defines life in whole because you can be rich and still be unhappy! Life favours the contented, the happy you are with the little you have, the happier you become. It’s not possible for you to be contented and not be successful at the end. A heart burden with what it doesn’t have suffers perennial drought because worries deny tomorrow of its happiness. As Robin Sharma opined, “we try hard, stay true to our dreams and pursue our ideals, yet nothing happens or so it seems. Sometimes discouragement sets in. But every choice matters. And every step counts. Life runs according to its own agenda, not ours. Be patient. Be like the stone-cutter, steadily chipping away, day after day. Eventually, a single blow will crack the stone and reveal the diamond.” In the final analysis, it doesn’t matter what other people think of you. All that matters is what you think of yourself. Success isn’t a popularity contest. Be yourself today and not like your mate! In this part of the world, there is so much self-imposed burden that ordinarily shouldn’t be so. Like Marcus Aurelius opined, “we are all burdened with problems, hardships, and issues. But concerning yourself with solving the pain of everyone around you is a task that will take a century. You can’t fix the faults of those around you, but you can fix your own issues.” Buried with heavy burdens, Marcus Aurelius, who was the Emperor of Ancient Rome between 161 and 180 AD, known commonly as the last amongst the “Five Good Emperors”, he carried the Empire on his shoulders, keeping it from its inevitable downfall and witnessing the worst: a declining national health, a promiscuous wife, a treacherous civil war, the rise of Christianity, a plague wiping out his people by the hundreds, and threat of battle and instability from all corners of the Empire. Many in his position would have fallen to madness, under the stress that was his daily burden. But Marcus Aurelius persevered. How? It is detailed in his personal journal, Meditations, which discusses the deepest thoughts and musings of a man who shed himself of anxiety and suffering, in his famous quote: “Today I escaped anxiety. Or no, I discarded it, because it was within me, in my own perceptions – not outside.” Like Aurelius’ definite guide on becoming the best version of yourself, you can be-actualising the greatness that rests within you and maximising your own strength, humility, personal ethics, and self-discipline. Again, be the driver of your destiny and maintain your lane without a hue to the reckless or luxurious driving of others.