It seems disqualified Big Brother Naija 2020 (BBNaija) lockdown housemate, Erica is already getting the needed support from her fans and well-wishers as N2 million cash gift and a brand new Mercedes Benz car awaits her. This gesture as seen on Instagram is from a diehard fan of hers and popular car dealer on Instagram simply known as Chidi Mike. He posted the car and her photo with the caption: “disqualified or not u’r still my winner @ericanlewedim 2 million cash money waiting for u @chidi.mike_cars @lifestylecmc @brandcmcsalesman  I love all u Guys that support.” This has kept tongues wagging because another set of fans have also setup a go fund me account that has generated over $15,000. Her disqualification is fast becoming a blessing just like last season’s Tacha who was booted out unceremoniously from the show. Her disqualification started during the party. Kiddwaya and Nengi seemed to be “vibing” on the dance floor and every time they got close they were interrupted by Ozo and Erica marking their territory. Erica then took a few moments to talk to Nengi about Kiddwaya, where she said that if there was a connection between them, it should be brought out to the open. Nengi opened up to Erica that the attraction wasn’t serious and that they knew each other before entering the House. How it blew up After the party was done and the Housemates were getting into their after party vibes in the kitchen, Erica took the fight to Laycon screaming at him for allegedly lying to Ebuka about her trying to kiss him twice. She didn’t relent as Kiddwaya and Trikytee tried to calm her down. When Laycon tried to separate himself from the trouble by sitting at the table with Prince, Dorathy, and Neo, Erica screamed at the top of her voice telling him she wasn’t attracted to him and never made an attempt to kiss him. She then reigned insult on him using many foul languages and calling him a “skinny drum stick.” When she retired to the head of House Lounge where she had a disagreement with Prince who was also trying to get her to calm down and shower so that she could be closer to her senses, it dawned on everyone that there’s no way she wouldn’t be leaving the game show. And it happened that way with her third strike and eventual disqualification. Lucy another housemate also was evicted.