Management of Rangers International FC of Enugu have set Sunday, September 13, 2020 as the resumption date for its old and new players ahead of the forthcoming 2020/2021 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season. The media officer of the club, Norbert Okolie, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP Sports, said the decision to call back the players and technical crew to begin preparation in earnest for the forthcoming season was reached at an elaborate zoom meeting held on Monday, at the club’ administrative headquarters, Enugu. The meeting had coaches, medical, media and management team in attendance. The general manager and CEO of the club, Prince Davidson Owumi, while welcoming officials to the Webinar, urged them to double their efforts in the coming season and help the club to actualise its modest target of annexing the league and Aiteo Cup to assuage the hunger of millions of the club fans around the world. “Let me say a big welcome to you all as we join hands to push for a great start ahead of the fast approaching season which will keep us in a vantage position to actualise our target for the season”.
“We are due for a double target and to appreciate our sports loving governor, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, who stood by the club in all circumstances. I urge us all to come up with our best at all times for this target to be achieved,” Owumi said. The technical adviser to the ‘Flying Antelopes’, Coach Salisu Yusuf, who connected to the meeting from his Kano residence, described the recently concluded season as one that was filled with mixed feelings but looked forward to the forthcoming season with great optimism. Coach Salisu, who had earlier submitted his technical report to the management, said that with some players retained, including the few quality legs that will be joining, that he was optimistic of leading the club to greater heights. “We have a new target before us and I strongly believe that with the players we retained and the few coming to join us, we can achieve the set target.” Team manager of the side, Barrister Amobi Ezeaku, assured that everything required for the club licensing exercise was being tackled head-on, as most of the needed certifications are ready.
While urging the players to keep to the schedule of resumption, he said the club was ahead of time in doing the needful to achieve the set target.