BY ISAIAH BENJAMIN Kaduna Legal Awareness for Nigerian Women (LANW) a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) in partnership with Christian Aid Nigeria with support from UKAID has disbursed N25.6 million to 581 poor and vulnerable households in 16 communities from Makarfi, Kachia, Kaura and Kajuru Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Kaduna State to cushion the impact of COVID-19 pandemic. The partnering organisations had in May 2020 commenced five months project tagged: Nigeria Afghanistan Localised Preparedness Emergency Response (C19 NALPER) designed to address primary and secondary impacts of COVID-19 on IDPs, returnees and vulnerable populations in hard-to-reach areas in the two countries. Speaking on the project during a stakeholders/media roundtable in Kaduna, the Project Manager, Christian Aid Nigeria, Mr Fagbite Bamidele, disclosed that over £1.3million was spent in 54 project locations in three states in Nigeria namely,  Kaduna,  Venue and Borno. According to him, the intervention was a rapid response project cutting across recovery and livelihoods, water sanitation and hygiene, provisions of non-food items, drilling of boreholes, repairs of water points, and capacity building for the benefitting communities. Other areas he said include training, information dissemination, and communication to communities on understanding the protocols of COVID-19 and cash distributions to beneficiaries across the targeted 54 locations. On the benefiting four local government areas of Kaduna State, he said, over 540 people benefitted from cash distributions, while 1,000 people benefitted from the non-food items. “In Kaduna, we were able to repair 48 water points across the 16 communities, while 4 new boreholes were drilled. “In the area of sensitization and awareness creation 28 health facilities benefitted from the Personal Protective Equipment, (PPE) donations, while over 100 health workers were trained on Gender-Based Violence, (GBV) bordering on documentations, analysis, referrals and also in support of positive behaviour seeking for community members,” he said. Earlier in an overview of the progress of C19 NALPER in the three states, Monitoring, Evaluation, Accountability and Learning Manager, Ms Talatu Aliyu, said cash distributions were given to 2,415 beneficiaries across 54 communities in Benue, Borno and Kaduna States According to her, 87 water points renovation has been completed in 3 states and 10 new ones drilled while some are to be completed the coming week in Benue and Borno. “720 Community influencers across Benue, Kaduna and Borno were trained on COVID-19 WASH, and water points repairs and maintenance for increased hygiene practices and environmental sanitation “Fumigation of public places was done working with the state Emergency Operations Center (EOC) locations included local isolation centres, primary health facilities, traditional palaces, worship centres and markets places,” she said. On her own part, Executive Director of Legal Awareness for Nigerian Women, (LANW), Barrister Rebecca Sako-John also informed that 48 Community Protection and Health Committees (CPHC) received refresher training on GBV with 3 reported cases and referrals to state GBV centres recorded during the training. A beneficiary and Village Head of Bontong Central, Manchok Chiefdom in Kaura LGA, Mr Matthew Ahu Lahi, commended Christian Aid Nigeria for the cash distributions, provisions of non-food items to vulnerable members of his community. Other beneficiaries in their testimonies commended the organization for their assistance when they needed it most.