The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono has revealed that the Ministry through the Department of Farm Inputs Support Services (FISS) has established an online portal called the National Fertilizer Management Platform for the registration of Fertilizer dealers in Nigeria. He stated that the Initiative would ensure accessibility, transparency, accountability among fertilizer value chain players in order to create sanity in the fertilizer space. Speaking during the Meeting /Workshop on Operationalization of the National Fertilizer Quality Control (NFQC) Act and Regulations held at the Debbie’s Upper Class & Recreation Limited, Nyanya- Karshi Expressway, Orozo in Abuja, on Monday 22nd September 2020, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono stated that the portal would strategically guarantee that all relevant stakeholders are properly and adequately guided on the use of fertilizers. Alhaji Sabo Nanono noted that the training of stakeholders on fertilizer code of practice, product handling, use and management practices, said, ‘’this is with a view to equipping you for advisory services to farmers as they come to buy fertilizers from you’’. The Minister stressed that there is a need for a robust public awareness campaign and continuous sensitization of the general public on the fertilizer regulatory system.Nanono charged, ‘’all the fertilizer players to re-double their efforts and carry on with your businesses in line with the provisions of the National Fertilizer Quality Control (NFQC) Act and the fertilizer Regulations’’, assuring that the Ministry will provide all the necessary support and assistance needed for the stakeholders to carry on their legitimate business unhindered. He noted that‘’ Mr President has created ample opportunities for you the fertilizer players to reposition yourself to take advantage of the good and clear policy environment to grow your businesses’’. The Minister informed that ‘’ the Ministry officials will be engaging the relevant stakeholders during the 3-day workshop in three separate orders; – Day 1 for inorganic fertilizer Suppliers (Manufacturers/Blenders and Importers), Day 2 for organic fertilizer suppliers and Day 3 which is the last day for agro-dealers (distributors)’’. He added that the workshop is to ensure participation of all stakeholders in the implementation process.In his welcome address, Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Dr. Abdulkadir Mu’azu, represented by Director in the Permanent Secretary‘s office, Engr. Mohammed Bello said that ‘’the purpose of this workshop is to discuss the critical areas of the fertilizer Act in order to enhance our understanding of the operations of the fertilizer regulatory system’’. Dr Mu’azu further said that ‘’ the interest of the Ministry is not to watch individuals violate the law and pay penalties but to ensure maximum compliance in order to grow the local fertilizer industry and the agricultural sector’’.In his goodwill message, the Chairman, House Committee on Agricultural Production and Services, Hon. Dandutse Muntari Mohammed, pointed out that ‘’the Act was enacted to protect the interests of the farmers against nutrient deficiencies, adulteration as well as the investments of fertilizer industry players’’. He assured of the National Assembly’s support on the implementation of the Act.While giving a vote of thanks, Director, Farms Inputs Support Services Department in the Ministry, Engr. Tunde Bello thanked the stakeholders for their commitment and technical support towards the actualization of the NFQC Act and Regulations.