By Chibuzo Ukaibe, Abuja A coalition of groups, named Conference of all PDP Support Groups of Nigeria warned that Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) could suffer another round of defeat in Niger State if the crisis rocking the state chapter of the party is not resolved soon. The coalition stated this during their protest at the PDP annex headquarters, popularly called Legacy House in Abuja. Led by its national chairman, Ezeji Chidozie, the groups blamed the national financial secretary of PDP, Abdullahi Maibasira, who hails from Niger State for the crisis rocking the state chapter of the party. While accusing Maibasira of refusing to allow congresses hold in the state, the called for his sack as member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP. Chidozie said, “We are happy with our national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and former President Goodluck Jonathan who have tried their best to address the issues in our great party and fish out the bad eggs trying to destroy our great party, PDP. “However 2023 is coming. Edo has come and gone with victory on the side of the PDP. We thank the Almighty God for the victory he has given us in Edo State. We won because of one voice. “It is because of lack of one voice that the APC lost Edo. So we don’t want to lose in 2023. “We are having issues in Niger state. And we are calling on the national leadership of our great party to sack our national financial secretary, Maibasira. “We don’t want any bad egg in our party. He is causing disunity in our party. He does not want us to hold congress. He is our problem. Maibasira must go. “We don’t want factions in our party again. We don’t know how someone who cannot manage his state can come and be a national leader. “We are calling the NEC to look into this matter because we want what happened in Edo to happen across boards in 2023. With one voice we will make it. With one spirit, we will make it. PDP will come back again.” When asked about the interventions they as a coalition have made to resolve the issue, he said, “We have called him on several occasions to order in our own capacity. We as a body have sent delegates from Niger state and they spoke with him on several occasions but he didn’t listen that is why we are now calling for his sack. “We call for the immediate resolution or sacking of those behind the crises to avoid what happened in APC during Oshiomhole,” he added. When contacted for a reaction, the PDP Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Diran Odeyemi, advised party members to always follow the constitutional way of expressing their grievances and not allow themselves to be sponsored against the party.