With the 2020 Governorship Election in Edo State just around the corner, coaches, athletes and other lovers of sports in the state are gearing up for a mega rally in Benin City, the state capital, to mobilise support for the reelection of the Edo State Governor and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. The rally being organised by the Edo State Sports Commission is billed to commence by 8:30am on Wednesday, September 9, 2020, ten days before the election. The rally, according to the organisers, will take off from the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium and will see the athletes, coaches and officials of the Commission go through major streets in the city, to canvass support for the governor. According to a schedule released by the Commission, “the procession will commence at the stadium, move through Akenzua Street, Plymouth Road and turn off onto Ring Road; move from there to Akpakpava Street and then to Dawson Road. From Dawson Road, the procession will veer into Mission Road; from there move back to Ring Road, from where it will proceed to Airport Road. From Airport Road the rally will move back onto Akenzua Street from where it makes its way back to the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, its finishing point.” The rally by the sportsmen and women in support of Governor Obaseki’s reelection bid is their “way of showing gratitude to his administration for the steady transformation of the sporting firmament in Edo State since he assumed office as Governor of the state in 2016.” They noted: “Beyond the face-lift given to dilapidated sports facilities and the construction of new ones, Governor Obaseki has paid more attention to the welfare of sportsmen and women than previous governors of the state.” Chairman of the Edo State Sports Commission, Godwin Dudu-Orumen Esq., said “Governor Obaseki’s giant strides in sports development in the state are commendable. The rally is the Commission’s way of drawing the attention of the people of the state to his worthy achievements in sports, and also drum up support for his second term bid. “If he has accomplished so much in just four years, imagine what possibilities await us in the next four years. Governor Obaseki’s coming as governor has been a blessing to Edo State generally. For sports in particular, it has been a harvest of blessings. We are using this rally to make that point clear to all.”