The Benin monarch last week summoned candidates of the APC and the PDP and key political players in Edo State over the spate of violence in the build-up to the September 19 governorship poll in the state.
That event signals a major shift in the way the much-anticipated Edo State governorship election would turn out, watchers of events leading to the poll aver. Before then, the two main parties had been at daggers drawn in the race for who occupies Dennis Osadebay’s avenue, the seat of power in Benin City,  Edo State after the polls.
Prior to Oba of Benin’s meeting with the political gladiators, hardly a day goes by without reports of violence and blame-trading by both parties. Both parties had traded blames over the rising thuggery and violence steeped in a supremacy battle between PDP’s Governor Obaseki, driven by the Obaseki/Shaibu Movement (OSM) and APC’s Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, backed Edo Peoples Movement (EPM). The incumbent governor projects his “Making Edo Great Again, (MAGA)” mantra backed by his record of achievements to help him secure a second term in office. On the other hand, Ize-Iyamu has the Simple Agenda which he projects will send the incumbent governor packing.
In spite of these programmes, the state seems to have witnessed more of violent engagements and blame-trading between the two leading parties than conscientious campaigns on their manifestoes, analysts opine.
While civil society groups had cried out over the spate of violence, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and police had warned repeatedly about the rising violence and arming of thugs by politicians. Giving perspective to the spate of violence, Yiaga Africa, while warning that there might be violence during the election also observed that campaigns had shifted from issues to personalities, characterised by verbal and physical attacks, identity-based violence, and hate-speech rhetoric. Citing specific instances, the Yiaga Africa in a survey reported that “At a PDP rally in Apana Community in Etsako West LGA, clashes between the supporters of PDP and APC led to violent attacks and vandalism. At least one incident of SGBV was recorded in Orhionmwon, Oredo, Ikpoba/Okha, Etsako Central, Owan West, Esan West, and Ovia North East LGA.” According to the survey, the potential hotspots and flashpoints of violence, where the electoral battles are expected to be the fiercest include; Etsako West, Etsako East, Etsako Central, Owan West, and Akoko-Edo in Edo North Senatorial district. In Edo South, Oredo, Orhionmwon, Egor, Ovia North East, and Ikpoba-Okha LGAs while in Edo Central Senatorial district, Esan Central, Esan North East, and Esan West are potential hotspots. This scenario evoked deep concerns over what is to be expected with the poll barely less than two weeks away. Oba Intervenes
The Oba of Benin has had a first-hand experience of the election violence in the state. Recall that loyalists of both parties had clashed at the palace premises. That scenario which caused a major concern across the country seemed to set the tone for other acts of violence in the state. Obviously worried about the unfortunate political scenario in the state, Oba Ewuare II Ogidigan last week summoned Governor Obaseki and Pastor Ize-Iyamu, the major candidates out of the 14 political parties in the contest, to a peace meeting at his palace. Besides Obaseki and Ize-Iyamu, other political actors at the peace meeting include immediate-past APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole; former governor and helmsman of APC, Chief John Odigie Oyegun; national vice-chairman (South-south) of the PDP, Chief Dan Osi Orbih; state chairmen of both parties, Col. David Imuse of the APC and Tony Aziegbemi of the PDP. The monarch told the leading candidates to caution their supporters against setting the state ablaze, stressing that the animosity and level of intolerance among political gladiators caused him sleepless nights. He regretted that Edo State has been in the news for the wrong reasons, adding that the governorship election has pitched the people against themselves. Speaking to the candidates, the Oba said, “Both of you are arming thugs and I am worried about what will happen with these weapons after the poll. We are doing our bit internally; traditional prayers are been offered so that there will be peace during the election. Enough is not enough. “I want to appeal to the politicians to control the youths, I want the politicians to assure us that there will be peace, you do not kill yourselves over an office. “This is the worst scenario of all the politics that we have seen in Edo. Edo politics has been in the news for quite sometimes now for all the wrong reasons. “I have had sleepless nights over this. My mind is burning up over this violence and shooting all over the state, let the shooting stop and let there be peace and quiet in the state.” He charges the two candidates to the line of peace just like former President Goodluck Jonathan during and after the 2015 election.
“Don’t kill yourselves over an office, don’t kill yourselves over votes, let us have a working relationship that President Muhammadu Buhari had with Goodluck Jonathan; It is not a do or die affair.
“The two candidates must tow the line of peace just like Jonathan did when he willingly announced his acceptance of defeat in 2015. “This singular act changed the prediction of international community that Nigeria will break up as a result of that elections.
“We are begging you politicians, particularly the two political gladiators. You must all do your bit to calm down the tension in the state.” The monarch maintained that the traditional institution remained non-partisan. “I have already sacrificed my franchise over this because if I do cast my vote in favour of a particular candidate, I would have already taken sides. “If any of them (dukedons) makes any statement, they are only taking your money and cannot do anything beyond what the palace want. They are not speaking for me or the palace, they are only speaking for themselves,” he stated. He added “Why do you want lives to be lost by arming thugs? Enough is enough, let the September 19 governorship election in Edo state be peaceful. Be mature and be proud of Edo state. Do not make Edo state a laughing stock.” In a move symbolic of no-bitterness towards each other, Governor Obaseki and Pastor Ize-Iyamu had embraced each other with a pledge to toe the path of peace.
The candidates promised to ensure that their supporters conduct themselves in a peaceful manner henceforth.
Governor Obaseki who commended the monarch for his fatherly role said: “I have sworn on oath to protect the people and it will be irresponsible of me to do otherwise, especially that which can lead to the destruction of lives and properties.” He noted that he is as worried as the monarch over what is happening in the state and assured the monarch that he will do all within his power to see that there is peace in the state. The APC candidate, Ize-Iyamu also assured that he will ensure that his supporters conduct themselves in a peaceful manner throughout the remaining part of the campaign as well as during the election.
On his part, former APC national chairman, Oshiomhole said as a product of peaceful elections, he would not deviate from what will lead to a peaceful election. The former Edo State governor assured that they would abide with the counsel of the monarch. PDP publicity secretary in the state, Mr. Chris Nehikhare, also expressed excitement over the timely intervention of His Royal Majesty Oba Ewuare 11 “in the very embarrassing situation we find ourselves where shooting becomes the order of the day especially in Edo north senatorial district of Edo state.”
He said, “We appreciate his Majesty’s intervention and we will take it very seriously as he has said so and we will like to thank him for his fatherly intervention in these issues.”
Now that some respite has come to the people of the state, many believe that both parties will focus on issue-based campaigns.
Speaking with LEADERSHIP, a political analyst, Mike Obiekwe, said,  “now that the Oba of Benin has intervened in the matter,  it is clear what direction the campaigns should go now.  We need to start seeing more robust engagements on ideas, a tough contest on how best to serve the people of the state, a conscious elevation of the discussion on issues like quality education, healthcare system, employment, and security. These are the kind of interactions we need to starting hearing from the candidates and their parties going forward,” he said.
On his part, a social commentator, Bello Ahmed said it is never too late for the parties and the candidates to redirect the discussion around the election away from the violence which had saturated the space. “The least we expect from the key political actors is to put out their ideas, constructively and clearly so that the people of the state can assess them on merit. The back and forth over violence was almost seen as a strategic tool to scare people away from participating at the polls,” he said.