Francis Okoye Maiduguri Moved by the accommodation crisis at various internally displaced persons (IDPs) camps visited in Maiduguri, the House of Representatives Committee on North East Development Commission ( NEDC ), has urged the commission to ensure the completion of its 1000 housing units project at Ngwom, latest by November this year. This is even as the Committee commended the commission for achieving so much in a very short period of its establishment. Speaking in Maiduguri, Khadija Bukar-Abba, the Chairperson of the Committee, who led other members to Maiduguri, noted that there are lot of challenges facing the people of the Northeast zone of which the NEDC is empowered by law to tackle and provide succour to the people. She said:” We as House Committee members on NEDC are here to oversight the Commission on its various projects and what they have done so far. We have visited Ngwom ,where the Commission is constructing 1000 housing units for the IDPs and witnessed the level of progress going on there. ” Although,100 houses have been built already, we are hopeful that before the end of November this year, the Commission would be able to complete the whole houses to enable IDPs from Mafa, Dikwa and Ngala occupy the houses. ” We spoke to the IDPs and inform them that we will go back to the House and report the condition we met the camps. And the Chairman of the camp told us that the major challenge they are facing is food shortage and inadequate housing for the increasing number of IDPs due to fresh attacks on some communities,” Hajiya Bukar-ABBA said. The Committee however observed that the Commission has not been getting adequate funding to enable it effectively carry out its mandate., adding that given the quantum of work that needs to be done, it strongly feel the Commission should get more funding. She said her committee had gone round some of the projects areas of the Commission in displaced communities and IDP camps where they saw a multitude of people who were in need of life-saving assistance. “We have visited some of the IDP camps and had a firsthand experience of the depth of suffering people are going through, especially the women and children. “We have also seen the impressive works that the NEDC has achieved in such a short period of a year since it commenced operation and it was wonderful. But we have also observed how overwhelming the work that the NEDC needed to do has been, and how their progress may be affected due to lack of adequate resources. “We visited Ngwom village in Mafa local government, about 18km outside Maiduguri, and we have seen the 1000 housing projects that the NEDC has embarked on, and we are excited that the project would be concluded very soon. “At the IDP camps we have seen multitudes of women and children and old person who needed food more than anything else to survive, and we felt the challenges are overwhelming and the NEDC is underfunded.” Managing Director of NEDC, Mohammed Alkali, conducted the team round the city of Maiduguri where they visited several project sites and food warehouses of the Commission within Maiduguri. Alkali said some of the properties acquired in the name of the NEDC were either being used as warehouse, offices and accommodation for guests and staffers of the Commission. In most of the IDP camps, the displaced persons lamented how the problem of inadequate classrooms has impeded the learning of the children. Muhammed Abacha, an IDP official told the Reps Committee members that their major challenges are food and education of their children. “We in Customs House IDPs camp are facing a serious challenge of lack of food to feed with .We have only nine classrooms here in the camp and we have well over 3000 school-age kids in this camp. We need more classrooms, else our children will continue to roam about the camp without any form of education,” he said.