By ANDREW ESSIEN ABUJA A former member of the House of Representatives and Chairman House Committee on security and intelligence in the 8th Assembly, Hon. Aminu Sani Jaji, has raised the alarm over harassment and intimidation on leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) by security agencies in Zamfara State. Jaji, who was also a governorship aspirant of the APC in the last election also said the Zamfara state Commissioner of Police has refused to give adequate protection to party members from the current Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government, even as he tasked the Inspector General of Police to call the state police commissioner to order. Speaking with Journalists on Sunday in Abuja, Jaji further maintained that there was no faction in Zamfara chapter of APC, adding that the claim by Senator Marafa has no basis. “APC is the majority in Zamfara state but because we want to accommodate our people and because we want peace in our state we have decided to remain calm despite series of intimidation and harassment coming from the PDP government, arresting and detaining our members, levelling false allegations against them, we have been crying and shouting to the security agencies and up to this moment, most of them look at our complaint as something that should not be heard, which is unfair because we are Nigerians and we have the right to be in an opposition party. We have the right to display our own political activities in accordance with the law. The police has refused to give adequate protection to the APC members in Zamfara state. “One of our colleagues was arrested and they alleged that he sponsored bandits and just last week, another APC stalwart and sixteen others were arrested by the police in his own residence and they levelled the same allegation against him, that they have intelligence report that he is holding meeting with repentant bandits, according to the police commissioner. “When I got this information I called the commissioner of police to complain but he said he is not aware of who arrested them and that he is not aware of the arrest. Later they bailed him unconditionally. So that means it was a political arrest. As the Chief Law Officer he is hitting up the state.” “Our demand is for the Inspector General of Police, because all our complaints none of them was attended to, from the time the PDP government came onboard. So we want the IG to look at it and call the commissioner of police to order so that he will do the needful by conducting himself according to the ethics of his profession.” On the state of APC in Zamfara, Hon Jaji said: “Actually APC in Zamfara does not have faction, legally speaking, because the so called claim by Senator Marafa, has no basis. I do not see any reason why the party at the national level should listen to him. I’m part of the G8 members, even the mother of the G8, so I don’t know why somebody, even before the emergence of this current administration of PDP in the state, he said anybody who is supporting him, should vote for Accord Party. “ He (Marafa) said it categorically and that was part of the agreement he had with the incumbent government that if Accord did not get it, if the PDP get it, then the incumbent governor will make the Accord Candidate his SSG, and that is what is playing out now. And one of the incumbent governor’s commissioners is the person who contested in Accord Party, he was in APC with Marafa and Marafa asked them to go to Accord Party, he is now a commissioner and the other one a Special Adviser. “There are so many other things, the person who is claiming to be the chairman of Marafa faction of APC in Zamfara state is now serving as the permanent commissioner in the National Hajj Commission. So, the thing is if Marafa is APC member, he can come out and tell his people that if you are with me, come to APC, if you are with the PDP government continue enjoying being with the government. So for me, there is no any other problem, we don’t have any other problem.” 