By Chibuzo Ukaibe, Abuja The Patriots for the Advancement of Peace and Social Development [PAPS] has raised concerns over alleged plots by some members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to disrupt the peace in Zamfara State. The group therefore urged the acting national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Mai Mala Buni to call the APC members to order and avoid a breakdown of law and order. In a statement yesterday in Abuja, chairman of PAPS Alhaji Dr. Sani Abdulahi Shinkafi said the state has suffered enough due to armed banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling in recent times, to be dragged into another round violence caused by some political actors. The statement said, “In the last few weeks Intelligence reports available to us have uncovered plots by some factional members of the All Progressives Congress [APC] in Zamfara State to breach the existing peace the good people of Zamfara State are enjoying presently. “There is an evil plan to disrupt the peace restored by the administration of Governor Bello Matawalle, that initiated peace and alternative dispute resolution with the deadly armed bandits in the state for the past one year. “The uncovered plots to destabilise the state sponsored by the factional leaders of the APC loyal to the immediate past Governor of Zamfara State in the last one year. “The findings by the Government’s intelligence reports and security agencies indicate that the factional leadership of the APC in the State was inciting some repented armed bandits to denounce the peace accord signed with the Zamfara State Government and cause mayhem. “This is not the first time that the enemies of the state would be attempt to cause crisis in the state, as it would be recalled that a few weeks ago, a former member of the House of Representatives sponsored hoodlums in Bakura during the APC House of Assembly bye-election primaries which led to the destruction of properties worth millions of naira and many innocent citizens were injured. “He was arrested along with the hoodlums but was later granted bail by the police authorities. These desperadoes will throw our state into a senseless crisis which would result in the destruction of lives and state assets if the security agencies refuse to act quickly and be on red alert to nip the bud any attempt to cause crisis in the state, bust crimes and deal decisively with anybody caught fomenting trouble no matter his status or party affiliation.” Shinkafi however advised parents to educate their children and wards on the dangers and security implication of breaching peace in Zamfara State. He charged youths in the state to take advantage of the peaceful and conducive atmosphere created by the Zamfara State Government. “We call on His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Zamfara State Hon. Bello Mohammed Matawalle not to fold his hands and watch disgruntled and desperate politicians most of whom are serial elections losers to disrupt the peace the restoration government has laboured so hard to restore, and bring back the lost glory of the state. “Therefore, the security agencies should be on the red alert to arrest the ugly situation before it degenerates into a full blown crisis,” the statement added.