With less than 10 days to the governorship election in Edo State, over 300 Christian leaders from the 18 local government areas of the state have thrown their weight behind the second term bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), promising to mobilise their followers and other Christian faithful across the state to ensure the governor’s reelection. The religious leaders under the aegis of Kingdom Minded Ministers Association (KMMA) noted that the Christian community in Edo State is inspired by the sincerity and passion of the governor in ensuring human and infrastructural development in the state. President of KMMA, Rev. Dr. Sharp Okoro, who spoke in Benin City on Thursday, at an event to endorse the governor, said: “We specially took note of the fact that you are not a noise making governor, rather you chose to let your work speak for you. The church particularly appreciates the elimination of land speculators/touts that thrive through the oppression and exploitation of hardworking residents of Edo State, thus scaring away would-be investors.” Delivering the message of endorsement, Bishop Ohis Emmanuel, Vice President of KMMA and Coordinator of 300 Pulpits for Governor Godwin Obaseki’s reelection, said the endorsement became important to avert the return of the reign of terror, godfatherism, institutionalisation of corruption and political patronage. He noted: “If democracy is the government of the people by the people and for the people, then power must return to the people. We have come to install the people’s governor so that the people of Edo State will rejoice again.” In his remark, Obaseki noted: “The only thing that bothers me now is that my covenant with God should not be broken. I do not want to be elected for a second term as governor with the blood of anyone in my hands. I am calling on you to help me pray that in the September 19, 2020 election, we should not lose any soul in the state. “My mandate is to serve God by serving my people. We don’t shout because God doesn’t want us to shout but return all the glory to him. We have overcome all the obstacles they have put before us and on Saturday, September 19, we shall overcome yet again.” “I thank you for the endorsement and assure you that things will only get better. We know what to do to improve the lives of the people of Edo State. If we could achieve all these despite the disturbance from the godfather, what do you think will happen when God removes them? What we have done is small compared to what we will do when we win our second term bid,” Obaseki assured.