 The federal government has approved the creation of a Crime Recovery and Management Agency Bill. Attorney General of the Federation and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who disclosed this to State House correspondents after a virtual Federal Executive Council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa explained that the bill is intended to have in place a legal and institutional framework. According to him, ”Previously proceeds of crime were scattered all over in different and multiple agencies. “The Federal Ministry of Justice presented a Council memo today. The Council memo is about a Bill that will seek the approval of the Council to transmit to the National Assembly for passage. It is the proceeds of Crime Recovery and management Agency Bill.’’ Malami said that the new law seeks to move the fight against corruption to the next level. According to him, “The essence of the bill is to have a legal and institutional framework. The legal component of it is having a law. And the institutional component of it is to have an agency that will be saddled with the responsibility of managing the assets that constitute the proceeds of crime in Nigeria. “What happened before now is that the proceeds of crime and corruption are scattered all over, and mostly in the hands of different and multiple agencies of government inclusive of the police, the DSS, EFCC, and ICPC. “What we want to achieve is the next level of transparency, next level of accountability and in essence, have in place an agency of government that is exclusively responsible for anything proceeds of crime. ‘’As you rightly know, Mr President has sanctioned ever since he came on board, that there should be a budget line, a budget item for recovered assets.’’ “So, if you have a budget item for recovered assets, this agency will now be in a position to provide information to the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning on demand as to what amount is there available for budget purposes, thereby establishing the desired transparency, the desired accountability which has not been available before now.’’