BY PATIENCE IVIE IHEJIRIKA, Abuja The National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA)’s branch of the Medical and Health Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MHWUN),  has recognised selected Nigerians who according to them,  played key roles leading to Nigeria’s attainment of the Wild Polio Virus free status. Top among them are the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who was given the award of ‘Outstanding Leader of the Nigerian Child’ and the Executive Director/CEO, NPHCDA, Dr. Faisal Shuaib, Who received Award as ‘Guardian of the Nigerian Child’. In his speech, the Chairman of the Union, Comrade Kingsley Gaiya, said the award to the NPHCDA ED was in recognition of his immense contributions to the eradication of Wild Polio Virus in Nigeria. He said the journey to polio free status was a long sustained battle by stakeholders but specially commended Dr. Shuaib’s management for bringing to bear the winning innovations that helped finish the job of polio in the country. “Dr. Shauib’s war strategies were uncommon, culminating in the achievement. He described the NPHCDA helmsman as a pragmatic and exemplary leader,” he said. According to him, the union recognised and was bestowing awards to Dr. Shuaib’s team members because of the union’s belief that they provided strong pillars that enabled the CEO to operate efficiently and effectively. Speaking during the award ceremony, Dr. Shuaib appreciated President Muhammadu Buhari for his passionate commitment to the health of Nigerians. He also commended the great work of the National Assembly, particularly the Committees on Health and Primary healthcare and the Ministry of Health in ensuring the polio certification of the country. The ED then congratulated the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, on the award of Outstanding Leader of the Nigerian Child bestowed on him by the union. While congratulating the union on a successful conduct of elections, Shuaib said there has been a cordial and harmonious working relationship between the management and the union in the agency. He thanked the Governing Board Chairman, Alhaji Salihu Attahiru Aliero (Dallatun Gwandu), all NPHCDA Board members, management and all staff of NPHCDA for their cooperation and support toward the achievement of the milestone. Earlier, Chairman of the occasion and Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator (Dr) Ibrahim Y. Oloriegbe said great commendations for the polio eradication exercise in Nigeria go to the field workers who had to drop polio vaccines into the mouth of the children. Senator Oloriegbe said Nigeria is a country where many believe that nothing works but that the polio eradication achievement has become the testimony that if Nigerians work together collectively as a team and with their will and zeal they could actually move mountains. 