By KINGSLEY OKOH, Lagos Jobberman Nigeria, has reiterated it’s commitment to boost manpower development and increase productivity in workplaces with the first ever virtual meeting to host 250 Employers and 10,000 job seekers online under a single virtual roof on September, 30, 2020. The move, however, was apt to address the deficiency of skill gap in sectors and to close the widening gap of unemployment in the country. According to Jobberman, the soft skill training will place 3 million young Nigerians in dignified employment position in the next 5 years adding that Jobberman is the only recruitment services business platform in Nigeria that offers to train and place candidates in dignified employment. The ongoing online training program will equip young people within the age of(18-35) with critical tools including business etiquette, emotional intelligence and more, to help them transition into new roles and increase workplace productivity. This, they said would enhance capacity building and strengthen the value chain of human capacity development in the country while also ensuring Returns on Investment into the country’s economy which is critical for achieving inclusive growth. The business platform noted that 250 potential employers from various sectors including manufacturing, digital, agriculture and creative industry would come together under one virtual roof with 10,000 highly qualified candidates for the landmark event. Jobberman revealed that several reports and survey have showed that unemployment has reached an all time high in Nigeria with over 40% due to the pandemic adding that the search for jobs has become an overcrowded marketplace, with 18-35 year old mostly affected by redundancy and underemployment The one day Virtual Career Fair will be centred on how to navigate the increasingly competitive job space and provide the necessary tools to get hired, with one-one interviews between candidates and employers and sessions such as CV Preparation masterclasses. However, companies mainly from Agri-tech, digital and the creative sectors with operations in Lagos, Kano and Kaduna will be in attendance to showcase their brands and company cultures. Employers already listed on the Jobberman platform are able to sign-up for free for the groundbreaking event and are required to commit to hiring within three months of the fair. Speaking in a Live streaming Session in Zoom, Managing Director of ROAM Africa Jobs, Hilda Kragha, said “The Virtual Career Fair perfectly encapsulates Jobberman’s commitment to alleviating the strains of unemployment and employability, by connecting thousands of qualified candidates to reputable employers, in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. She said, “As an innovative and technologically driven company, we are able to find a solution to this immediate and challenging issue, by creating this first ever virtual space of opportunity for both employer and candidate. With over a decade in the recruitment business, Jobberman is using its platform and network to create democratic and transparent opportunities that eliminates nepotism while enabling a more productive workforce. She said. 