The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Honoris United Universities Network, Luis Lopez has said that Nile University of Nigeria membership in the association would contribute to the development efforts of Nigerian communities throughout the country. Honoris United Universities Network is the first and largest pan-African private higher education network, with presence in 10 countries and a community of 45,000 students and more than 3,500 teachers in Africa.
Nile University recently joined it to provide students with accelerated learning experiences and effective links to regional and international opportunities, increasing their competitiveness in an era of digitization and automation across the globe. Speaking with LEADERSHIP, Lopez said Nile University joined Honoris United Universities network to deepen access to high-demand professions and skills, such as in STEM (from engineering to ICT) and in Allied Health, as two examples.
He said: “This access, fashioned in a pan-African experience and a multicultural immersion, is coupled with a singular focus on student success. In this sense, Honoris’ core activities at Nile will contribute to the development efforts of Nigerian communities throughout the country. “Furthermore, the university has an established medical school, a core
area of strength and opportunity for the Honoris Network and a complement to our Medical Simulation Centre in Tunis, which trains more than 3,500 health science students annually.” He noted that Nile University’s relationship with Honoris represents an extremely good feat that is mutually beneficial to the school, its students, faculty, and those studying within other Honoris institutions.
Lopez stated: “Articulating this fit further, as part of the Honoris network, Nile will benefit from a weight of academic and administrative capabilities that the organization has gathered from its pan-African success. This encompasses practical, intellectual, structural and financial wherewithal to further enable the university’s potential. “Lastly, Nile University students will now have access to a best-in-class, multicultural academic experience and student-centric learning environments using state-of-the-art professional  technologies. “Honoris houses a diversity of educational scenarios such as the Medical Simulation Centre in Tunis (the latest technology in health sciences), the SMARTILAB / LPRI Engineering Lab in Morocco (world-class research and innovation) and Centres of Excellence in Business and Education in South Africa (the iLeadLabmaker space and the School of Education). Honoris’ international network of partners (60 institutions) represents a further source of differentiation for Nile students and faculty.”