By Emmanuel Bagudu, Abuja The Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ), through its Natural Resources and Extractives Programme, is holding a three-day virtual training for journalists in Nigeria to improve reporting around the Natural Resources sector. The project is designed to train and equip selected Nigerian journalists with the tools and resources needed to effectively report on the natural resources sector as a means for sustainable development. This training follows the organisation’s initial call for applications where PTCIJ received applications from journalists across the country. Out of these, 32 promising journalists (Including Leadership Newspaper Reporter) have been selected from online, print and electronic (Television and Radio) media across diverse newsrooms in Nigeria. The selected journalists are now undergoing a three-day intensive training which will introduce them to the Natural Resources and Extractive sector. After this training, they will be provided with a modest grant to pursue their respective stories which will be published on their media platforms. According to the Manager of the Natural Resources and Extractive Programme, Akintunde Babatunde, “The training is an opportunity for journalists to improve the reporting of the sector by submitting story ideas they intend to execute while PTCIJ will support them with small grants, data and other resources to ensure the successful execution of story ideas in the sector. As a follow-up to their training, PTCIJ will prepare a policy brief which will speak to the findings of the respective journalists, as well as provide policy recommendations to drive development within the Natural Resources and Extractives sector.” He noted that PTCIJ is deeply committed to driving accountability and development in Nigeria through the vehicle of journalism. “We hope to strengthen this commitment through this Natural Resources and Extractives Reporting Project,” he added. Speaking on the first day of the training, Dapo Olorunyomi, the Executive Director of PTCIJ said the idea for the Natural Resource Journalism is to promote public dialogue on natural resources issues through programmes that inform, empower and inspire better journalism.