Facts have emerged that though agriculture will always be a crucial industry, it will look entirely different in the future. People have been farming for all of recorded human history, so the profession has seen some significant changes over time. With today’s rapid advancement in technology, we might be on the brink of another agricultural revolution. This is because, smart farming is taking over agriculture, and will soon revolutionise the industry. Smart farming is the practice of collecting and using data to optimise operations. While traditional farmers have to observe their crops and make adjustments based on what they see, smart farming provides them with precise readings from various devices. This offers greater accuracy and more robust information. The insights provided by this information helps farmers in a process called precision agriculture,  which is the use of  advanced technology to farm more efficiently. The collected data can inform the action of their employees and robotic systems to make the most out of their work. As data-collecting technologies become more varied and available,  there is no doubt that this process will overtake traditional farming as the norm. Here are seven ways smart farming is revolutionising the way farms operate. Automated harvesting systems can help decrease work injuries on farms. Farmers can cut down on them and shorten recovery time by reducing their employees workload, but this can make them fall behind in a traditional farming setup. Harvest robots on the other hand can help by working alongside people. By measuring data like crop quality, these bots can gather and organise produce with the same, if not greater accuracy than a human worker. Farmers can also use information collected by these machines to determine the most effective way to harvest their fields. This data can also inform them of the conditions of their crops so they can make necessary adjustments to maximise their yields. With the help of satellites, farmers can monitor their land in ways they never could before. If a bird’s-eye view helps understand an area, a view from space could be indispensable. The chief advantage in satellite imagery is not necessarily in the scope of its vision, but the kind of things it can point out. Satellites can observe factors like photosynthesis and soil nitrogen content, which can give farmers crucial information they wouldn’t notice otherwise. Images from these systems can highlight areas of a farm that needs attention. Farmers can then address these concerns before they become  more significant and noticeable. Smart irrigation system can monitor soil and plant conditions to determine when or if they need water. They can then use techniques like drip irrigation to ensure the process only uses what’s needed. Sensors within the irrigation equipment can inform farmers of how much water they’re using or how well the soil is retaining it. The farmers can then adjust their approach as needed. Hello Tractor takes advantage of the Internet of Things (IoT), the network of internet-connected devices with sensors that send real-time data to tractor owners. This information allows people to see how farmers are using their property and can inform them when they may need maintenance. Services like Hello Tractor not only make farming a more cost-effective option for some people, but also protects the equipment owners’ interests. Drones can offer real-time video feedback so farmers can monitor their land from the comfort of their homes. Some drones can operate entirely on their own, allowing farmers to work while they gather data autonomously. These flying robots can watch for everything from crop quality to livestock behaviour, cutting down on time and effort needed to manage a farm. There are also spraying drones that can be used to spread liquid fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides in the farm , especially large hectares of farm. These sensors can show farmers their livestock’s real-time location without them having to be present. They can also alert workers if they detect a possible health problem in an animal. IoT sensors can be connected to other systems to increase efficiency. If a sensor attached to lights within an indoor farm alerts someone that plants aren’t getting enough light, they could then turn lights on remotely. The Internet of Things allows farmers to be everywhere at once. The future of farming the smart farming revolution is a relatively recent development, but it’s quickly gaining ground. Data-gathering devices will become cheaper and more efficient as technology improves. Before long, all farming may be smart. This will bring about sustainability in the farming subsector 