 Very soon Covid 19 and the noisome panic it has generated all over the world will recede and up will come the November USA Presidential election. Already, the campaigns have started. Those who do not like President Trump have started to advance 7, 14.21 and manifold reasons why we who have no electoral role to play in that election should not support him. As is usual with some of those who hate Trump and who hate those of us who support him in Africa and among the Black race even more, they have started abusing us calling us fools and ignorant fools who need to be babysitted to understand the kind of devil Trump is and the kind of demons we are even when they egg heads try to explain ‘unvarnished’ truth to us. As the number one nation of influence in the world, who becomes president of the USA will continue to be of interest to billions of people on planet earth because whether for good or evil, what takes place in America influences what happens in your own corner of the earth whether you are living in a shithole or rat hole or wherever hole country. Take, for example, a humble me. I hate homosexuality, lesbianism and other weird ills promoted by the left-wing, liberal constituency in the USA with every ounce of religious zeal in me. But under the Obama Presidency, this minority constituency was aggressively pushing for the LGBTQ to be accepted worldwide whether we like it or not. Usually weak African presidents were pressured to pass laws in their countries legitimizing what an overwhelming majority in their country hates. I, a God-fearing man living in my shithole country, would have become an unwitting victim, made to embrace and or to tolerate LGBTQ because some people in America feel I should do so. In spite of democracy and human rights and religious rights! Since all of us in the world must necessarily be emotionally and spiritually involved in who sits in the White House, let me proffer the 7 reasons I wish and prophetically declare will make Trump to batter Biden and Harris in November. Trump may not be a spirit-filled, Bible quoting, tongue-speaking, hand laying and table-shaking, theatrical pulpit performer, but he has allowed himself to be used of the Lord and this appeals to us immensely. In Biblical times, when the children of God besieged a thick-walled city, they would use a battering ram to breach the wall and gain access to carry out God’s judgment against their idolatrous adversaries. When Trump gets back in November and there will be no more cause for him to worry about re-election, he will become a battering ram to instill the fear of God into the calloused hearts and souls of those arrogant souls who seem bent on remaking the world in their own image, those idolatrous people who worship the god of mammon, sex and Luciferian rebellion. Unlike the likes of Trump who are straight talking, the liberals have patented cunning words that do not express the gravity of the offences they support and perpetuate. They call abortion ‘’choice or a woman’s right to her body’’; they call prostitutes ‘’commercial sex workers’’; they call adultery ‘’having an affair’’; they hate children and call the prevention of having more children ‘’family planning’’ and when they want to destroy children nestling calmly and comfortably in their mothers’ womb, they call it ‘’having a procedure’’. For them, every wrong doer is a victim, either of society or of biology which they cannot explain so they should be tolerated or rehabilitated at the expense of the state. They say homosexuality and lesbianism are not processes of acculturation but of biology yet, they want it taught actively in school to children in their formative years. Since they love making victims out of anybody who is inclined towards evil, they say practitioners of those acts should be allowed to adopt children which can only be gotten through heterosexual act! Whatever may be Trump’s many weaknesses, we see Trump as an upholder of what the America themselves call Family Values. Since the silent, humble and non-virulent Moral Majority in the USA care about Family Values which is in accord with God’s plan for man, our man, Trump, will return in November. We shall, by God’s grace, conclude this conversation next week.  Trump is a Good Racist: As if it is a new thing, we get told by those who think we are too ignorant to know certain things that Trump is a racist; that he does not think much of Blacks, Latinos and other ‘lower’ races, if he thinks anything about them at all. Let us be truthful for a moment: Which whites are not racists? Yes, let someone tell me truthfully, which Whites of them are not racists in their hearts of hearts? Except for some Liberals especially in the Democratic Party, who want to look different from the likes of Trump for the purposes of getting Blacks and Latinos votes, which of them feels deep within that Blacks are as human as they are; they have no grain of feeling that Whites are superior to Blacks and other ‘lower’ races? I cannot now remember the Black political leader who once described Blacks as ‘’the Harlem Globetrotters of the Democratic Party’’. Remember that famous music and dance group called The Harlem Globetrotters? In the Democratic Party where ‘non-racist’ Whites abound and which Blacks have traditionally supported for ages, Blacks are no more than the entertainment wing of the party. Apart from the Bill Clinton Presidency, which other president has seriously considered many Blacks good enough for key appointments in the USA? Beginning from President Ronald Reagan in 1980, through the Bushes to now Trump, I am happy that the unpretending racists in the Republican Party have come forward boldly to roll away Welfare and other affirmative policies, which to my mind, have hurt rather than help Blacks. I have since come to a private conclusion that quota hardly helps the community that it is designed to help shore up. It makes you become laid back, unserious and uncompetitive and it also makes you to develop an entitlement mentality as opposed to an entrepreneurial mentality. Life, if you think seriously, is a competition, my friend. We Blacks deserve the contempt of other races. And in the USA in particular, they have not done well at all. Apart from the Ameri-Indians, Blacks are more native, more indigenous to that country than many Whites who are latter day immigrants. But see how my people exist, not live, in that country— on the fringes. My people have not managed to develop a sense of community with a sense of purpose to lift themselves up from the misfortunes of slavery. Sometime last year, I wept when I read a newspaper or magazine interview in which the phenomenally talented tennis champion Venus Williams lamented just how difficult or impossible it is for successful Black women like her to get mates among the Black family to marry. Because of the pathetic inability of Blacks to get their acts together and begin to live more meaningfully in that society, they are producing men who need to be mothered and wifed at the same time, according to Venus Williams. Leave Venus for a while and reflect on successful Black males, especially the athletes among them. They almost always tend to marry White. Is this a mere coincidence or someone is remote-controlling this somewhere unknown to them? The Heavyweight Champion Mohammed Ali married White. He had a problem with her and spent all his money on alimony! Another Black boxing champ Mike Tyson, who at the height of his fame boasted that he was richer than God, married another White, the actress Robert Givens. Instead of Robert giving her love and all to Mike to make him mightier, she became Robert Takens. She took and took from Mike and left him without a Cent! The man is now considering a comeback at age 50-something. OJ Simpson married White and had a great deal of trouble with that woman. It took the brilliance of a criminal lawyer to save OJ his neck. Did Esther Villa, the author of The Manipulated Man, have these Blacks in mind when she wrote her book? I personally think that if I were White, I will most certainly look down on Blacks. Again, if truth must be told, we Blacks have not done well for ourselves and for our communities and the world at large at all. We have given the excuse of slavery and colonialism for too long. The likes of Trump who voice out their extreme disappointment about the non-achievements of Blacks are more helpful to our cause than the so-called Liberal, tight-lipped Whites, who humour us and patronize us if were women and children always in need of praises and validation so that we can improve ourselves. If Trump calls your country a shithole country do not abuse him or call him racist. The right thing to do is to go back to that hole, reflect deeply, plan meticulously and come out with a blueprint that will transform your country from a shithole to paradise. And you will earn his respect. He can then be ready to negotiate with you. For now he has to impose his will on you. When he provoked the Iranians to anger by killing their most respected General and the Iranians responded like men, he stopped the saber-rattling and was ready for some negotiation.