The former head of the procurement unit of Citizenship and Leadership Centre (CLTC) Alhaji Usman Fufuri Ibrahim has written to the Governing Board of the CLCT alleging victimization over his demotion linked to alleged violations of procurement process in the organization. Alhaji Usman Fufuri Ibrahim was protesting his demotion from the position of Assistant Director to Chief Procurement Officer (Grade Level 15 to Grade Level 13) as well as his deployment to another unit
over a bidding process in the organization in which he claimed to be following the order of the director general of the organization by Mr. Jonah Bawa.
In the letter dated 13th September 2020 sighted by LEADERSHIP and addressed to the Chairman, Governing Board, through the Chairman, Board Establishment Committee of CLTC, Usman Fufuri Ibrahim, said he was not given fair hearing by Bawa and his management before he was demoted by two grade levels and requested for an opportunity to state his own side of the story. He also copied several bodies including the Minister for Youths and Sports Development, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Youths ad Sports Development, the Permanent Secretary,
Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation, Office of the Chief of Staff to the President, among others.
In the letter titled, “Appeal To Revisit The Case of Serious Misconduct of Public Service Rules And Breach of The Procurement Act 2007 Alleged Against Me The True Story Of The Case”, Alhaji Usman Furfuri wrote, “The chairman of the committee i.e. the director general (Mr J. B. Bawa) did not allow me to voice my side of the episode that happened based on the above. I solicits the kind gesture of the Board Management to review my case and give me a fair and impartial atmosphere to voice my side of the claimed allegation and reverse the decision taken against me in the best interest of justice.” LEADERSHIP gathered that in the 2019 bid process the Tenders Board had after following all due processes, awarded contract for a training workshop to a company worth N40million. While the company was busy executing the job, Fufuri alleged that the DG invited him and requested that the Company be replaced with another company brought by
Bawa to which the Procurement officer refused and pointed out to the Director General that such would breach Section 17 and 20 of the 2007 Procurement Act. He however carried out the directive as instructor, unfortunately he said that he is being blamed for an action in which he was only obeying orders from his boss.