By Danjuma Joseph Executive of All Progressives Congress-APC- at Obi electoral ward in Obi Local Government Area of Nasarawa State has slammed an indefinite suspension on the Council Chairman, Iyimoga Oyigye. LEADERSHIP reports that even though the suspension of the council boss is coming from his electoral ward as enshrined in the constitution of the party, when contacted, Oyigye said the suspension cannot stand the test of time. Oyigye whose suspension is reminiscent of what eventually led to the ouster of former National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, was suspended at the end of an extraordinary meeting of the Ward Exco at the weekend. In a statement signed by the duo of the ward chairman and the assistant secretary, copy of which was made available to our correspondent, the Exco accused the LG Boss of inciting party members against each other and ‘factionalising the party’. In the two page statement, the Exco accused the suspended chairman of acting in ways that have brought the party into disrepute even as they directed him to appear before a disciplinary committee on Friday. Iyimoga who hails from Obi electoral ward and so, by the constitution of the party derives his membership from the ward, was elected Executive Chairman of the council area on the platform of APC, during the last council elections in the state. He had been accused of supporting the candidate of an opposition party during the 2019 general election, an accusation the suspended chairman through his close aides, vehemently denied. Reacting to the suspension, some members of the party described it as the needed impetus to restore the party’s diminishing glory in the area insisting that if concerted measures are not taken to rein-in on the council chairman, he will do more damage to the party. “This is one chairman who has consistently created confusion within the party, carry on in manners that showed his disdain for both the party and most of its members. He has to be called to order”, a member who prefers anonymity said. 