By ALO ABIOLA, Ado Ekiti The pro-Senator Biodun Olujimi, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti state, has adopted Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, as the Southwest leader of the party. The leaders of the faction described as empty, the alleged threat by former Governor Ayodele Fayose declaring Governor Makinde a persona-non-grata who should not visit Ekiti. Fayose had told Makinde not to visit the state for any reason for speaking on the need to resolve the crisis plaguing PDP in Ekiti state. But the Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District and other leaders of her group rebuffed the former governor in Omuo Ekiti, headquarters of Ekiti East local government area of the state on Thursday , while distributing empowerment materials to her constituents. Materials distributed were: 480 deep freezers, 250 sewing machines, 220 motorcycles, carrier machines, solar panel, cash , 250 drying machines, 220 laptops, 6 carry -go tricycles, among others. Speaking at the event attended by party leaders, including the state factional chairman, Hon. Kehinde Odebunmi, Olujimi said the Oyo State Governor remains the indisputable leader of the southwest zone, who is free to visit Ekiti at will. According to her, “I thank all of you for adopting Governor Seyi Makinde as the leader of the party in the southwest. That was what we did when Governor Ayodele Fayose was the sole governor in the zone. “Former Governor Fayose is a leader of the PDP and one of the many PDP leaders that we have in the southwest. He is not the only leader and former governors, there were many. “So, Governor Makinde was adopted, because he is a decent, understanding and knowledgeable person. The southwest NASS caucus had adopted him. I heard Fayose said the caretaker in the zone has not been allowed to function, why should he say that? Because he too had strangulated the caretaker committee we have in Ekiti. “What has Makinde done? He said we should wait and resolve this crisis before conducting the congresses, because no individual can run Ekiti and deliver. “Let me say this, Governor Seyi Makinde is welcomed in Ekiti anytime. He should even come now, so that we can celebrate him. Fayose’s comment was just an empty threat. “We say unequivocally that Governor Seyi Makinde is the leader of the zone. Why should the party allow Fayose to conduct the congresses without following due process? We will resist a man who contributed to the failure of our party in Ekiti and the zone. We are resolute to rescue the party”. She also described as ill-timed, the recent increase in the pump price of petrol by the federal government due to deregulation, urging the government to reverse the action in the interest of the masses. “The timing was very wrong. Government must do things with human face. The timing was wrong and undesirable to the generality of the people. “With the government not doing enough to cushion the effect of COVID-19 crisis and the looming economic recession on the masses , the future looks bleak for our nation”. 