Obinna Ogbonnaya Abakaliki The Ebonyi State Governor Chief David Umahi has directed the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Barr Cletus Ofoke to institute a legal action against the Presbyterian Joint Hospital Uburu to account for the intervention funds released to them by the past administration. Governor Umahi who made the disclosure during a live broadcast at the New Government house complex Abakaliki accused the hospital of diverting the funds instead of using the funds to upgrade the hospital. Governor Umahi stated that the mission hospital fraudulently used the funds to establish a private university outside the state adding that “no one would use the name of church to defraud the state”. It would be recalled that the state government had last month took over the administration of the mission hospital after the expiration of the 100 years lease given to the hospital by the Uburu community in Ohaozara local government area of the state. Governor Umahi also announced the intention of the state government to handover the COVID 19 treatment center constructed by his administration to the federal government. The State Governor said that the state government expended the sum of N4b in the construction of the hospital adding that the government is moved to handover the hospital to alleviate the bed space problem of the Federal Teaching Hospital Abakaliki. He noted that he was moved to pity to handover the hospital when he visited the hospital and observed with dismay the condition of some patients who had to sleep on bare-floor and on benches after they had been discharged. On the continued Academic Staff Union of University ASUU strike Governor Umahi described the strike action as unreasonable adding that while the lecturers would still get their salaries after the strike action, parents and students would be at the receiving end. “ASUU strike is becoming unreasonable. The parents and children are the ones being punished. Everything is by negotiation, we must try to be reasonable and not to always stick to our guns. We must have to waive some of our rights in this nation for the country to move forward”. He assured that he would complete most of the ongoing projects in the state adding that every project in the state is currently recieving prompt attention. 