BY PATIENCE IVIE IHEJIRIKA, Abuja Given that the Wild Poliovirus is not yet eradicated globally, the federal government has urged citizens to show cooperation towards sustaining the country’s polio free status. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe, stated this while speaking with journalists at the Polio Eradication Certification celebration, tagged: ‘Keep Polio @ Zero,’ organised by the Medical Health workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN) and the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). Oloriegbe noted that primary health care is not just received at the hospital alone, but also a part of individual lifestyle. “We will not relent on our efforts to ensure that the necessary capacity is built, in terms of human, infrastructure and all financial necessity. But more importantly, is for citizens to cooperate as primary healthcare as we say, is that care that is owned by communities. it starts from individuals, to households and then to the community.” “The healthcare we are talking is not obtained in the hospital alone. It involves what we do, eat, how we keep our environment and how we care for our children,” he said. The chairman expressed optimism on the reduction of infant mortality, following the gains obtain from polio eradication. Also speaking, the executive director, NPHCDA, Dr Faisal shuaib, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for providing the resources required to deliver quality primary healthcare services for all Nigerians. “Just a few days ago, the honourable minister approved for the disbursement of funds, down to the states and primary healthcare centres. We are excited of what the future, and we are glad that because of these resources provided by President Muhammadu Buhari, we will be able to deliver quality healthcare services for all Nigerians.” On his part, the minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, called for the expansion of immunisation, routine and basic services and proper use of available funds. “We are rebuilding the health sector. There are many new things that haven’t been brought in here before, and there are going to reforms in management.” “We have to learn to make better use of the funds that we get, and to be able to achieve targets that show that we are spending public money properly for Nigerians and getting the results that we expect and the position that Nigeria should be in global affairs, in regards to health. We are not where we should be, and there is a lot of responsibilities and expectations on all of us, both in parliament, government, in administration and also in public sector.” The minister, NPHCDA’s DG amongst others were awarded by MHWUN for their efforts in the country’s polio eradication. 