BY ISAIAH BENJAMIN Kaduna A Non-Governmental Organization (NGO),  Centre for Water and Environment Development (CWED) at the weekend embacked on sensitization campaign in Mando community of Igabi local government area of Kaduna State as part of activities to mark the World cleanup day annually celebrated every 19th September. CWED took the campaign particularly to traders in the Mando market where they were sensitized on how to clean their environments and ensuring that their waste are properly and hygienically disposed. The CWED Program Manager, Shanni Doris Zakama who led other staff of the NGO highlighted the importance of keeping a clean environment which include guiding against diseases and polluted environment. Part of the activities carried out at the mando market in company of the Sarkin Kasuwa mando Alhaji Bala Idris, the Chairman of the Mando market association Alhaji Adamu Ubale Umar and his executives alongside other traders was a plastic waste pick up demonstration within the market and environs. CWED program manger averred that if the leaders are aware on the need to separate their plastics from other waste products which they can be used as manure, then, getting the market people here to follow suit with not be difficult. “As Centre for Water and Environment Development, we have interacted with these traders on plastic use and disposal. Even when you talk about reusing plastic, that will be for just a few times. “We want the government to ban the use of plastics. If that is done, people will improvise for what to use. We have a lot of perishable containers one can use. “There are containers like palm baskets and even used clothes. If the government ban the use of plastics including polythene, people will come up with alternative means of shopping. “This time around, we decided to come and sensitise the officials of the market association on how to use some of those waste as manure and pick up plastics that liters everywhere. Speaking,  Chairman Mando Market Association, Alhaji Umar appreciated the  CWED for the sensitisation exercise and also call for the ban of plastics in Nigeria. He said, “we are happy with their presence here at least, many of us who have heard this on the radio before are now seeing how it is done. “The area that suits us is when we were told to separate plastics from other wastes which we can convert to manure that is, organic fertiliser and use in our farms or gardens. “Before now, we just throw dirt anyhow or ask these wheelbarrow boys to help us dispose dirt which sometimes ends up in unwanted spots like road and drainage. “Now, we will be careful in the ways and manners we will handle our wastes in this market”, he promised The Sarkin Kasuwa Mando on his part assured that going forward they will ensure  that the cleaning exercise is sustained,  describing the exercise as a wakeup call.