Dr Godwin Maduka is a Harvard University-trained medical doctor and founder of Las Vegas Pain Institute Medical Centre. In this interview with ERNEST NZOR, he speaks on the need for diaspora voting, zoning, and Anambra State politics You are from the diaspora and you are interested in the forthcoming Anambra State 2021 gubernatorial race at a time the search for new leadership is ongoing. What’s your reading of the situation? I believe that there comes a time when we ought to have a new direction, so I have been watching my state and I have seen the progress they have made, and in some other areas, there is a need for improvement. That is why I decided to try my best to get involved with the governance of Anambra State.  With 2021 barely months away, what political platform will you want to contest on? And what are you bringing to the table? At this point, I am running under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). What I am bringing to the table is my 40 years of experience in the USA, out of which, I have been trying to improve people’s lives and I believe that I have something to offer the state. I have always been involved trying to do my best to help the government since the administrations of Chris Ngige, Peter Obi as well as Willie Obiano. I have watched them all these years and I realised that there is a lot I can add to what they have done and I have enumerated many areas that will need some improvement, in education, transport, women and youth empowerment, and ICT. Of course, as you know in medicine, which is my career, we have to improve in that area. I think medical tourism has to be reversed. Our people shouldn’t have to be going to India, America, or The UK to get the health care they need. So that is one of the things that I need to make sure it’s done in my state. You don’t need to spend millions of naira and dollars – taking that money overseas – when we can have it at home. As you know I am also a pharmacist and being a pharmacist, I believe we can build factories that manufacture drugs so that people can stop importing fake drugs into the country. I think we need to have mechanized agriculture. We also have to be able to help local farmers to be effective in order to improve their agricultural yield. I am sure that we can make a difference in healthcare and agriculture. I have done some work in the past in education, religious tolerance, roads, and bridges as part of my philanthropic activities.  How close are you to the grassroots and how much assistance and philanthropy have you done for the people of Anambra State? You may call it philanthropy but what we are doing is trying to improve the quality of life of the people. A lot of facilities were not available when we were growing up in Anambra. Nigerians in Diaspora are ready for a change. They are coming home. They decided this is a movement. Our people at home are doing good too and we need to have a collective effort. We from the Nigerians in diaspora and those at home should work together to be able to bring a change in Nigeria. There shouldn’t be any division between the Nigerians in diaspora and Nigerians at home. The Diaspora Nigeria intends to come home, get involved in politics, get involved in the development, get involved in infrastructure building and those are the things that are moving the movement.  You have chosen to call it a movement, a movement from the diaspora back home to come and contribute  to the development of Anambra. Youth groups in Anambra State are saying that the governorship must be zoned to the south senatorial district, what is your take on this? For close to 20 years, it has been observed that the Central Senatorial District has ruled for eight years; the North Senatorial District is just completing another eight years. Now it is time for the South but let me make it categorically clear that we have to observe that zoning so that there will be peace at home. You cannot explain to somebody that it is time for the South to produce the governor and all of a sudden it becomes politics. You can’t have peace in the state that way. Now after we finish with the South then we can abandon this zoning system. It should be abundantly clear that the next governor must come from the South or the people of the southern senatorial zone will feel cheated.  Now let’s look at the bigger picture for the Igbos in the South-eastern region. What are your thoughts about zoning the presidency to the region in 2023? It is almost a replica of what is happening in Anambra State. I think in democracy in Nigeria, I hope in the future we will get to the same level as the western world. The reason that they are clamouring for Igbo president is just for that equity and fairness. I think the South-east should produce a president and after which we educate Nigerians to love one another, coexist, and no longer about South or North. We are all one. There shouldn’t be any zoning on anything. But right now we have not grown to that point to understand what holds us together and that’s why the zoning has to happen now while we are learning to emulate the people that gave us democracy.  What is your opinion on the clamour for electoral reform that will enable Nigerians in the diaspora to vote and be voted for in Nigeria? Most Nigerians know that we contribute to the welfare of the country. As you said, there are billions of dollars or Euros thrown into Nigeria from the Nigerians in the diaspora. Now we are involved in the development, we are involved in religion, we are involved in every aspect of human endeavour at home, they should be allowed to vote and they are going to start voting. Most Nigerians in the diaspora do not get involved in all these nepotism or tribalism because that will be a laughable joke. If you have lived in the US or UK or Canada or Europe, you don’t want to identify with one tribe or the other. I think that the only way Nigerians will move forward is to use this knowledge that we have, plus what we grew up with in Nigeria, merge them together so we can move the country further and become a nation.  How do you see Mr. President’s agenda to enable those in the diaspora to come and invest in Nigeria? I am very happy to hear his recent speech but again, as I said, he has been doing this since his presidency. I think he is one of the presidents in Nigeria to reach out to Nigeria in the diaspora. I was in his presence. The minister of the diaspora will tell you that they know me well and one of the reasons I was also invited there is because of what I have done at home. I have told Nigerians in the diaspora there is a need to go home and help develop the country in order to contribute their quota to change the country for the better. 