Stakeholders have commended CHI Limited for its consistency in manufacturing high quality and healthy fruit juices, dairy beverages, and snacks that meet the nutritional and health needs of Nigerians. The company has also been commended for building a strong reputation.
Incorporated 40 years ago in 1980, CHI Limited said it has established its position as a foremost manufacturer in the food and beverage industry in Nigeria. According to consumers, in the course of its existence, the company’s business activities have impacted positively on the Nigerian economy and the lives of Nigerians. A consumer, Femi Ogundele said the company has been doing this through the manufacturing and nationwide availability of its products – Chivita Juices, Hollandia Yoghurt, and Hollandia Evaporated Milk brands – support healthy living. ‘‘By setting up a manufacturing facility in the heart of Lagos, the company has created jobs and continues to provide employment for thousands of Nigerians. An ISO 22000-certified company, CHI Limited employs state-of-the-art and internationally-certified technology that automates its production processes with minimal human input. The company places high premium on, and has invested heavily in research and development, a move that ensures innovation remains at the heart of its business. This has enabled it to continually deliver a robust portfolio of products that are rich in essential vitamins, minerals and other nutrients which meet consumer requirements for good health. Consumers’ desires for great tasting products is also met with the wide range of product variants and flavours that the company offers.
‘‘It is no surprise, therefore, that the ‘CHI’ name and logo have become synonymous with high quality. Since its inception, CHI Limited has made bold moves to establish itself as a truly Nigerian company, positioning itself at the forefront of promoting made-in-Nigeria products. It has demonstrated this commitment through the use of local resources (human and material) in the manufacture of its range of fruit juices, yoghurt, milk and snacks products that meet international standards,’’ he said.
The company in a statement said, ‘‘CHI Limited owes its high reputation and strong market leadership position to three key factors, namely, its strong pedigree, people and investment in human capital development. ‘‘A mention of the name, CHI Limited, calls to mind a range of products that cater for the nutritional and health needs of people of all ages, taste preferences and socio-economic class. The ‘CHI’ brand also evokes the assurance of high quality in the minds of consumers whenever they come in contact with any of the company’s products. ‘‘These feelings stem from the pedigree and high reputation the company has built over the years, driven by its commitment to manufacturing products using ingredients and input materials that are at the core of health and nutrition – fruits, vegetables, milk and yoghurt.’’
A consumer group, CNI said, ‘‘The company’s products meet the food needs of consumers and provide wholesome nutrition for the nation’s population. Its focus on innovation over its years of existence has led to the launch of a wide and varied range of products: a range of fruit juices and juice drinks, namely, Chivita 100%, Chivita Active, Chi Exotic, Chivita Ice Tea, ‘Happy Hour’ by Chivita, and Capri-Sun. Its value-added dairy range includes Hollandia Yoghurt, Hollandia Evaporated Milk, Hollandia Lactose Free Milk, Hollandia UHT Milk, and Hollandia Soya Milk. The company also has a snacks portfolio that includes Chi Superbite Sausage Roll, Beefie Beef Roll, Beefie Meat Pie, and Chi Classic Cake.’’ People
CHI Limited currently provides direct employment for about 5,000 people and indirect employment to over 112,500 people through its robust value chain. The company attributes the giant strides it has achieved in the last 40 years to its people, saying, “The success story would not be complete without acknowledging its employees who are its greatest asset.” The human resource initiatives, programmes and activities which the company has put in place have created an environment where employees have a sense of belonging, a feeling of ownership, and see CHI Limited as a great place to work. The employee engagement initiatives motivate staff to perform at optimum levels and achieve consistent value delivery to its customers and consumers, which in turn results in a high level of productivity. Some of the employee engagement initiatives implemented by the company include: CHI Cares, a multi-phased programme aimed at improving the well-being of employees in all areas of life – physical, social, mental, psychological and emotional. Reward and Recognition, is designed to recognize and reward all employees who perform at exceptional levels, go the extra mile, or achieve extra-ordinary results in their jobs which create positive results for the business.
Leadership and Development, focuses on consolidating strengths and improving opportunity areas for all employees through targeted learning, development, coaching and mentoring interventions. The learning and development programme is a robust plan with specific training objectives that aim to develop employee capabilities that enable them perform their roles optimally and prepare them to take on more senior roles (an indication that employees are not expected to stagnate on one position). Of particular significance is the fact that the company’s training offering cuts across all categories of workers, thereby offering equal opportunities for learning and development to all employees, irrespective of position, job grade, or level within the organization.
The stated that, ‘‘A key intervention that shows CHI Limited puts its employees first is the recently developed Immune Support Programme, a programme rolled out for its employees to address health and safety issues resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The plan encompasses preventive measures (provision of supplements and multivitamins for all employees); first aid measures; a fully operational on-site clinic with qualified medical doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel who are available in the office premises 24/7; and on-site and off-site support interventions. The company also has a comprehensive health insurance scheme which provides health benefits for all employees and their dependants. These interventions and investments are all geared towards ensuring that the company’s employees enjoy optimal health and wellness, and have a healthy immune function in this period and beyond. The outcome of all these employee engagement initiatives are reflected in improved workplace culture, good team spirit, high productivity, increased on-the-job motivation, increased employee safety, low absenteeism and the high safety level the company has enjoyed over the years.’’ Human Capital Development
CHI Limited recognizes that human capital is one of the most important assets for any organization’s success. It therefore makes it a deliberate policy to invest in the people who drive its business and deliver value to its trade partners and consumers each day. The company has over the years maintained a policy of hiring the best talent into key leadership and middle management cadres in all departments. To enable these key talents run the business smoothly, it also makes constant training and re-training of staff a cardinal principle of its business operations.
The emphasis on training and development also ensures that CHI Limited’s employees have required knowledge, skills and capability to perform in their respective positions – Finance, Marketing, Sales, Manufacturing, Logistics, HR, etc. Investments are also made to support the research and development and production teams to adapt to innovations in manufacturing processes and technology to ensure smooth running of the factories and manufacture of products that meet international standards.