 The minister of communications and digital economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami has underscored the importance of digital identity in the development of digital economy, describing it as a critical factor for a successful economic development.  He made this assertion in a statement by his spokesperson, Mrs Uwa Suleiman as part of activities to mark this year’s international identity day. He said President Muhammadu Buhari has also played the same date as national identity day to commemorate the day.  The 2020 international identity day with the theme, “Identity for Health, Sustainable Development and Growth” is designed to remind Nigerians of the importance of digital identity.  The minister also assured Nigerians that his ministry is developing the right policy environment to support enrolments for digital IDs across the country, saying the ministry will start by capturing Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Nigeria and will also support the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) and other stakeholders to ensure that we make the process of obtaining Digital IDs swift and secure.  The statement read in part: “One of the key objectives of Pillar #6 (Soft Infrastructure) of National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS)issupport for the accelerated implementation of a Digital Identity Programme. The importance of a digital identity programme to the successful development of a digital economy cannot be overstated. Digital Identity plays a critical part in the development of a digital economy is also called the fabric of the digital economy.  “Digital Identity and the digital economy are not only linked, but are also, reinforcing, as digital ID is the basis for digital economy platforms…Digital identification can be an important catalyst for various development initiatives in the continent, impacting on trade, governance, social protection, financial inclusion, domestic resource mobilization, as well as security and human rights.  “The Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy is committed to ensuring that Nigeria derives the benefits of a functional digital ID system and calls on all stakeholders to support this process. Nigerians are encouraged to visit NIMC accredited centres soon for their Digital IDs.”