By Olawale Ayeni, Abuja Nasarawa United of Lafia and Rangers International of Enugu have postponed the date for the resumption of their players and officials for the 2020/2021 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season indefinitely. The Lafia based club had earlier fixed Wednesday, September 16, 2020, as the resumption date for its players and officials ahead of the start of the 2020/21 football season. Recall that national coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 Dr Sani Aliyu, while answering questions at a press briefing in Abuja last week said federal government has not lifted the ban on contact sports, including football, amid preparations by Nigeria Professional Football League clubs ahead of the 2020/21 season. Solid Miners media officer, Eche Amos, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP sports, said the announcement by the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 informed the decision of the club to postpone the resumption till further notice, saying a new date would be announced soon. “Following the recent announcement by the Presidential Taskforce on COVID-19 that it has not granted waivers for contact sporting activities to resume, the management of Nasarawa United Football Club, Lafia, is announcing the postponement of the resumption date for its players and officials earlier slated for this weekWednesday, 16th September 2020, till further notice”. Also, while speaking after their management meeting in Enugu, yesterday, the general manager and CEO of Rangers, Prince Davison Owumi, said the postponement of the resumption was necessitated following  the announcement by NCDC/PTF over the Covid-19 health protocols.
“We are a law-abiding institution and will in no way flaunt laws put in place by a well constituted government body like NCDC and PTF.
“The earlier information at our disposal made us make our earlier announcement for our players to return but with further clarifications from NCDC and PTF, we are compelled to direct our players against returning to the players’ camp. When we get clearance, they will be informed of when to return,” Owumi stated.
Recall that both old and new players had been instructed to report for duties at the weekend following earlier information on the lifting of suspension on football activities but with the latest directive reversing the earlier order, management decided to call a halt for the resumption of activities in obedience to the Covid-19 health protocols. 