The honours governor Umaru Fintiri has received since coming into office including the one presented to him by LEADERSHIP Newspapers showed that he is a performing governor. But when some un-respected media outfits decide to use its pages to beg for meals by write-ups that don’t add up, it just portray them as unprofessional as they are. I am sorry to disappoint them that this is a government that walks the talk. The era when they write “nonsense and people will call them to the table for dinner is over.” I am pleased to say that I would have wasted so much of my ink to tell you of our numerous projects not until the folly of a particular media entity which normally described in pidgin English as “abeg give us something make we keep quiet). Keep quiet on what? The lies or assumptions! Well, it is now clear that the impenetrable SSG Bashir Ahmed is your nightmare. Desert Herald ended up explaining the open door policy of the governor in peeping into areas that needed to be part of the communal integration of the state. Furthermore, they unconsciously mentioned the governor’s great love for the various clans in Adamawa State by doing everything to make sure they have equal benefit and dividends of democracy. The picture they ended up painting is that of a governor always looking out for opportunity to be a father to all and not a favourite of one. The trophy has just been handed to the governor for fighting to transform a backward state into an ideal module for the nation.  Now we see why credible media outfits like the LEADERSHIP Newspapers honoured the executive governor recently. It was a great recognition for performance and certainly good governance. Others should be learning fast that when their write-ups clearly indicate that they are rather groping in the dark and yet to settle down into real journalism. Once again, our attention has been drawn to the barrage of attacks from this already obscure media outfit. I have had to grapple with a poorly written and lacklustre reportage, trying to make sense of it, to no avail. The quality of write-ups in any print media tells a lot about the quality of its editors and ultimately, its publishers. It is rather unfortunate that the publishers of this particular paper surreptitiously sometimes back used a photo shot opportunity with the revered former Emir Sanusi Lamido Sanusi to launder its image in a previous publication. Certainly Sanusi is not privy to the derogatory and denigrating story the publication has recently carried about a lady politician in Adamawa State calling her unprintable names on the basis of her gender. Sanusi Lamido definitely wouldn’t have given the publishers any audience. The defamed lady is still in consultation on the best legal action to take against the publishers of the organisation. The Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri-led administration has chosen to ignore all infinitesimal attention seekers and march on with its giant developmental strides in the state. However, in the interest of the good people of Adamawa State, let us set the records straight. It is on record that the governor ran an extremely lean cabinet for the first year of his administration to save cost. Even when the governor eventually made appointment of commissioners, advisers and assistants, he kept it lean and cut off all frivolous allowances, all in a bid to reduce the cost of governance in the state. Consequently, it is out of place for the paper to insinuate that the governor would allow any frivolous spending or financial impropriety. Every project in the state undergoes due process and legislative approval. The bidding processes, award of contracts and financial implications are open to public scrutiny. The Desert Herald ought to do its due diligence. Furthermore, the publication referred to the construction of the first flyover and interchange in the state as irrelevant projects. It is on record that this projects is arguably the largest in the whole of Northern Nigeria (many roads to and fro the roundabout). It takes a visionary leader to think futuristically and avoid the obvious bottleneck that is bound to evolve in no distant future. For the purpose of enlightenment, an interchange is defined as “a road junction that uses grade separation and ramps to permit traffic in at least one highway to pass through the junction without interruption from other crossing traffic streams.” Put simply, the interchange makes driving easier more convenient and faster. That project is already a tourist attraction. Most unfortunately, the publication refers to the construction of roads, bridges and electrification, as “projects not in tandem with the needs of the people.” The larger population of the good people of Adamawa State are farmers that need roads to transport their farm produce to the markets, artisans and small-scale businesses need electricity to function, yet the publication is oblivious of these facts. It is preposterous to even fathom the idea that the governor didn’t consult with the people before embarking on infrastructural projects. Certainly, the publishers were oblivious of the various consultations and town hall meetings with relevant stakeholders and reputable media houses embarked upon by the governor before embarking on the projects. The ignorance of the newspaper cannot be excused. For many years, infrastructural development in Adamawa had become moribund and comatose. With the advent of the AUF administration, it is obvious that Adamawa State has become a huge construction site with caterpillars and cranes in every nook and cranny of the state yet, a few disgruntled politicians are using as a smokescreen to vent their anger towards a governor that has rejected the personal aggrandisement of a few individuals that see Adamawa as a cash cow. This newspaper trying to play on religious and tribal sentiments is an exercise in futility. Adamawa is one of the most heterogeneous states in Nigeria in terms of tribe, culture and religion. It is common place to find families comprising of both Muslims and Christians. It takes a unifier and bridge builder as AUF to accommodate the various diversities in the state and create a sense of belonging for all. Even his cabinet is heterogeneous with a unique mix of all the major tribes and the two dominant religions. As far as the AUF administration is concerned, all tribes are equally important, none superior, none inferior. Every part of the state finds adequate representation in his cabinet thus the allusion that some tribes are favoured, holds no water. The publication particularly alluded to the Bachama and Fulani .The deputy governor is of the Bachama extraction but relates to the governor as a brother and ally. More so, the chief of staff to the governor and some key commissioners are from the Numan Federation so one tends to wonder were the allegation of nepotism or religious bias is emanating from as reported by the said publication. – Victor is SA Social Mobilization to the Adamawa State Governor 