Stakeholders in the livestock and feed sector, particularly those in poultry and fish farming have said the timely intervention by the Central Bank of Nigeria through its emergency approval it gave to four companies to import 262,000 tonnes of maize into the country saved the sector from near collapse. The companies are Wacot Limited, Chi farms Limited, Crown Flour Mills Limited and Premier Feeds Company Limited. The stakeholders were obviously reacting to a recent attack on the federal government by a group of young farmers under the aegis of Nigeria Young Farmers Network (NYFN), which condemned the decision of the CBN, describing it as not only demoralising, but also disturbing and demeaning considering that the organisation had mobilised young people, mostly unemployed to participate in its nationwide programme tagged; ‘raise a million farmers’. But the feed millers and livestock farmers who spoke with journalist yesterday in Abuja said COVID-19 has greatly affected the availability of maize which in turn drove the price of the product to all time high of N180,000 to N200,000 per metric tonne from the pre COVID-19 price of N80,000 to N90,000 per metric tonne. According to them, “The recent dramatic rise in maize price with two months left before the commencement of the harvest necessitated a one-off emergency supply of maize to save the Poultry and Fish industries. “Nearly 60 per cent of feed inputs come from Maize/Corn and both industries are facing a challenge of near collapse due to scarcity and high cost of maize. Many Feed millers have significantly cut back or stopped production for lack of this commodity. Day-old chicks for poultry processors are now selling for N500 per chick.” Managing director, Hybrid Feeds Kaduna, Dr Alayande Leye, said, “For now the imported maize have been highly impactful because at a point before the importation, there was a drastic drop in supply and a high demand gap from feed millers and it really made the price of feed to skyrocket. “The imported maize that came gave us a lot of respite, I tell you a lot of respite. If not for that maize, some farms would have shut down by now, some farmers would have been out of business.” Also speaking, sales director, Animalcare, one of the largest egg producers, based in Ogere, Ogun State, Asaba in Delta State and Kano, Mr Adewale Adeniyi, said even though it was reported that the federal government released 5000 metric tonnes, it is yet to get to the farmers. “But the ones that were imported are already available and has been a source of relief for us,” he said. “If this importation was not made, the poultry industry could have crumbled totally.” Alhaji Mahey Rasheed, chairman of Premium farms Abuja, told LEADERSHIP, that the intervention by the federal government to grant licenses to the four firms has brought back life to a sector and a value chain that was near total collapse. Managing director, Fidan Investment Ltd, an Ibadan-based company specialising in breeders, Mr Ali Jammal, said small farmers were shutting down because the cost of feed was becoming very high. He however said that the life line came when the imported maize arrived. He said that those faulting the decision of government to open up the space for the importation do not understand what poultry and fish farmers were going through. On his part, Mr Sunday Ezeobiora, managing director of Sunchi Farms and Hatchery, Enugu said there is no point pretending that we have enough maize to feed the local livestock farms. According to him, “While it is good to encourage local farmers to produce more so that we can reduce our import, we need to still import until such a time when we can truly convince ourselves that we have enough.” He thanked the federal government and the CBN for its thoughtfulness and timely intervention. Nigeria is currently experiencing stock exhaustion from 2019 in the grain markets, the urgent intervention by the CBN the group said is significant and timely. 