By Hussaini Hammangabdo, No fewer than 24 persons, have been trained on Social Investment and Empowerment Program funded by the European Union/CRUDAN and OXFAM to reduce poverty in Adamawa state. Mr Falaye Usman, Governance and Influencing Coordinator, OXFAM said the idea is to help pilot  Fufore and Song  LGAs, identify social protection and safety network strategies, towards eradicating poverty. Usman, while offering further explanation added that,  the workshop charted a roadmap on what, when, how to spend and  evaluate the spending on social investments  by the two councils. The training provided the committee members platform to remain consistent with agenda of developing and explore opportunity to get resource to  improve food security of the area. “The two councils are the first to adopt the  policy, designed to reduce poverty across the 774 LGAs. “For PROACT is an idea to sustain the effort of our project in hands of the LGAs. “The training ensure participants, understand PROACT project and set up SIEP technical working group to build their capacity on social protection issues”. Mr Olumide Ojo, Resilience and Private Sector Engagement Program Manager OXFAM added that, the outcome is  to  support government in order to have improved capacity  to become more responsive to the priority needs of the people. The policy would also help them sustain the momentum of change, created through the process in the area of agriculture sector to lift people out of poverty and ensure food security. “We ensure LGAs understand technical requirements they need to acquire to support them access Ojo urged the other LGAs to adopt the policy framework to guide their action for improved IGR . Other outcome of the training was  to reduced vulnerability,  increase wellbeing and  sustain use of natural base. Jada Mohammed, CRUDAN livelihood Program Officer  and implementing partners  said, the program is open for interested  LGAs to better their lots. Musa Jauro Gurin, Chairman Fufore council reiterated the readiness of his council to support the program, while thanking the EU funded program for the gesture. 