BY FEMI OYEWESO, Abeokuta Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has commiserated with the people and Emirate Council of Kaduna state, particularly Zaria, on the transition of His Royal Highness, Alhaji (Dr.) Shehu Idris, whose death occurred Sunday at the age of 84. In a condolence letter to Alhaji Ibraheem Bashar Ameenu, for and on behalf of the Family of the Late Emir of Zazzau, Obasanjo eulogized the late ruler as one of the most respected and respectable ruler, whose death was received with deep shock. The letter, copy which was made available to newsmen in Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital on Monday, said the late Emir’s style of leadership which was characterized by fairness to all, objectivity, moderation and a burning commitment to the development of his Emirate and the nation at large, had impacted most positively on the polity. “He was one of the most admirable apostles of inter-ethnic understanding and cohesion; inter-religious accommodation and tolerance and inter-cultural co-operation. The contemporary metropolitan colouration of his Emirate, without compromising our indigenous traditions and culture, was visible proof of his eventful reign thus far. “I had occasion to call on him when I was the President to meditate on the Plateau issue of farmers and herdsmen. “Indeed, the Emir will long be remembered for his peaceful reign during which several manifestations of physical and human development were recorded in the Emirate. His vigorous promotion of the educational development of his subjects as well as his vast knowledge of traditional administrative lore and culture will be greatly missed. “Little wonder that only four years on the throne way back in 1979, he was deservedly considered for and honoured with the nation’s third most distinguished national honour, Commander of the Federal Republic, CFR. “I pray that the Almighty will grant him eternal rest, give you and his people the courage to bear the heavy loss and provide a worthy successor to the late Emir”.