Screams and shouts of excitement rented the air in the cities of Lokoja, Kano, Abuja, Akure and Lagos as 43 winners in the Dangote cement spell and win promo took to the dance floor having received instant credit alerts of N1 million. A visible elated Elemide Titus, one of the winners, said, Dangote cement has kept its word of giving N1 million to the star prize winners as all of them received credit alerts at the venue. He stated that Dangote cement has given him a surprise with the one-million-naira redemption as he never expected the promo to be real. He called on the company to continue on the glorious path of keeping it real in prompt redemption of prizes, adding that, the company will continue to flourish. Titus also charged the public to continue to buy and use Dangote cement, promising that users of the company’s products will smile in the long run. A school teacher, Ajayi Oluwatoyin Risikat, who also won N1 million described the cash prize as God sent. She disclosed that, following the lockdown, she has been at home without salary but decided to take up a job as a store keeper at a construction site. In the process, she was able to gather the scratch cards and spelt Dangote, earning one million. She stated that her birthday comes up the next day and wondered what a better birthday gift than receiving cash prize of one million naira. Speaking during the cheques handover, national sales director, Dangote Cement, Adeyemi Fajobi, said the company has softened the process of becoming millionaires as only alphabets are required to become one. He charged the winners to continue to patronise the product  as there several prizes yet to be won even as the winners still have the chance of one millionaire naira again. He added that the promo came to provide palliatives to cushion the impact of the pandemic and decided to make our consumers become millionaires. In her remarks, director of  marketing, Dangote Cement, Mrs Funmi Sanni, commended the winners who are consumers of cement products. Without the consumers, she said, Dangote Cement will not be recording the level of success it is having today, adding that, consumers are the most important in the value chain. According to her, a customer could only win the N1 million cash prize on collection of the scratch cards that each carries letter D, A, N, G, O, T and E to make up the name DANGOTE. She added that, other prizes to be won include motorbikes, tricycles, TV sets, recharge cards, among other prizes in the promotion that will end on November 5, 2020.