As the biggest reality game show in Africa, Big Brother Africa, becomes more intense and competitive, it seems permutations are becoming ripe and those considered to be top on the line are showing how they won’t relent to bring home the grand prize of N85m.  Following popular opinion and posts from celebrities and fans on social media , it seems the ‘icons’ who are in support of BBLaycon are on the lead. The Big Brother came in with a new voting pattern and nominations, making those considered weak looking strong and others looking strong becoming weak.  Laycon’s fans are not resting and are dolling out the money in thousands and even millions to make sure that he gets the needed votes. (It seems his pitiful tactic is working). But aside from that, Laycon they said is an intelligent guy and his looks have nothing to do with it.  He has shown that from his conversations with housemates and also his performance at the arena games. He’s the most intelligent in the house, truth be told. Though not the main reason he’s being loved.  Kaisha who was evicted from the game show in a recent interview said in the house, she thought Dorathy was on top of the chat for the money because she seems to be the realest. But when she was evicted, she realised that Laycon is topping the chat as his popularity continues to rise.  Also celebrities like Nkechi Blessing, Tunde Ednut and others are coming together to keep him at the top.  The young musician, whose songs haven’t been enjoying airplay before he got into the competition, is receiving great reviews from entertainment pundits and promoters of late.  That’s why it’s the biggest and most popular game show I’m Africa and promotes culture, oneness, unity, education and the same time, entertaining.  For Erica’s fans, they are bent on making sure Laycon doesn’t go ahead of them. It seems the sympathy votes is helping him more than Erica. But they are the major contenders now for the money as people all over even abroad are now dolling out cash to help keep her at the top.  Erica has been trying everything possible to gain Kidd’s heart as she told him she hates it that her name will be linked to Laycon whenever she’s googled for wanting to kiss him, “someone I’m not even attracted to,” she explained.  When you don’t like someone, it’s fine you’re not attracted to him. She was saying this so Kidd will know she’s for him.  On the other side, Kiddwaya’s fans like Uti Nwachukwu, DJ Cuppy ,2Baba and others aren’t giving up so easily in the race and need more Arewa votes to stay on top. The crown has never comes to the north and Kaisha and Kidd were the only representatives who could have done the region proud.  But as it looks like the housemates are not in love with him and are bent on sending him packing. But his fans and the Arewa community can keep him until the last day and not because he’s from an affluent home. There are people from other tribes that loves Kidd and are doing everything to keep him till the finals, even when others are clamouring for pity votes. For Nengi, she’s not being eloquent or talk much about like the aforementioned. Her escapades with Ozo is getting her fans furious and bringing down her votes and likelihood of even getting close to the money, even though the likes of Cubana Chief Priest who was behind last year’s winner Mercy is gunning for them. Ozo has lost lots of fans because of what many considered as confusing himself because of Nengi. Nkechi Blessing was his biggest but decided to leave him for Laycon because of his continued flirting with Nengi who’s not ready to accept him. Dorathy is on her lane and even though still has sympathy votes, may not make it to the top five. But Lucy is gaining more fans everyday making it difficult for the likes of Vee and Neo. Trikytee has surprised everyone as a contender in the house. He is there because he’s not a threat to anyone, that’s why the housemates keep picking him. Prince was Lucky that Erica chose him to be her deputy HoH or else , he neck would have been on the line. Kiddwaya , who is Erica’s choice for the position was removed from holding any of the roles as a punishment for his misbehaviour. Social media is now like a warzone for the top housemates and this Sunday will really show who’s more popular or prominent and not just having fans that make noise. The result for the Johnnie Walker challenge shows that Team Gold with #BBNengi, #BBLaycon, #BBVee won the challenge and are all millionaires, including a ticket to Scotland for them. The housemates up for eviction this Sunday are Kiddwaya, Laycon, Lucy, Nengi, Trikytee and Vee. 