Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State on Thursday commended the National Hajj Commission (NAHCON) on the Hajj Savings Scheme for intending Pilgrims in the country. Tambuwal in a statement signed by his Special Adviser Media and Publicity, Malam Muhammad Bello, said the Chairman of NAHCON, Alhaji Zikirullah Hassan and his team visited him at Government House, Sokoto. The governor said that the scheme was a commendable initiative and one of the easiest ways people could save and pay to be able to perform their religious obligation. He observed that the commission needed to review the subsisting transportation policy, to give more consideration to local airlines. “The existing policy at a point almost discouraged local airlines from operating, as such NAHCON should encourage them to improve on their mode of operation, by measuring up to international standards. ”We know there has been challenges but encourage them to do better, so that we can encourage those Nigerians, who are in that business to do more,” he said. Tambuwal appealed to NAHCON to continue to consult with other stakeholders,  to improve on their service delivery and uphold the trust given to them by President Muhammadu Buhari. While assuring the commission that his administration would continue to cooperate with them, the governor commended NAHCON for executing some projects at the state’s Hajj Camp. He said it was a deliberate policy of his administration to complete all projects inherited from the previous governments. “Government is a continuum. We must continue the projects we inherited and must not allow public resources to be wasted,” he said. On the commission’s proposal to set up a Hajj Training Institute, Tambuwal said it was a welcome development, so that intending pilgrims and people in business would be properly trained n handling pilgrims and Hajj issues. “This is a way of making our Hajj process in Nigeria to conform with those of other places in the world,” he added. He congratulated Hassan on his appointment by the President, adding that he had confidence that God would make it easier for him and his team to improve and consolidate on the ideals and objectives guiding the setting up of NAHCON. In his address, the NAHCON Chairman, said they were in the state to pay courtesy visit on the Governor and also to inspect some of the projects being executed in the state by the commission. He informed the governor of the commission’s desire to improve on the operations of the Hajj commission, saying that the commission intends to digitalise the whole operations of Hajj exercise in the country. (NAN) 