By Ejike Ejike, Ernest  Nzor, Abuja The COVID-19 Task Force of Victims Support Fund (VSF), has donated N150, million and medical Information Communication Technology equipment to the federal ministry of health to support the efforts in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria. Presenting the items on Tuesday in Abuja, the Chairperson of VSF, Mrs Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji, said that the gesture is aimed at boosting of COVID-19 data collection. She said that the laptop, printers and other ICT equipment was donated to the the federal ministry of health to support the data collection. According to her, “We believe that health care is not just about providing medication and drugs, but the human capital and the quality of the human capacity within the ministry, will determine to a very long extends the successes that the ministry is going to achieve in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have visited the minister to pledge our support to the federal ministry of health that the ministry is at the epicenter of the entire exercise and you have been the one coordinating the entire national response stretagic challenges of the COVID-19 and we would like you to guard us in some of the things we have done. “We supported the National Center For Disease Control, NCDC, with Telecom and surveillance equipment to be able to coordinate their meetings from Abuja here and across the 36 states and also we have provided a lot of institutional support to relevant government agencies to be able to wrap up the level of response that was provided at the states and local government levels.” Akerele-Ogunsiji noted that the organization is committed to support the country in area of education, infrastructural development as well as research and peace building across the country. She further said that information dissemination is the epicenter of this pandemic and we want to improve the capacity of the NCDC with data collection and coordinating all of the states of the federation from one central location in Abuja. The Minister of health Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who appreciated the Victim Support Fund for the donation, said it will help in further boosting the technical capacity of the ministry. 