BY PATIENCE IVIE IHEJIRIKA, The Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Pauline Tallen, has stressed the need for opinion of woman to be included in the ongoing 1999 constitutional review. The minister, who stated this during the Women in Governance and Politics Conference (WIGPC) live-streamed on Arise TV on Monday, said women’s views will prove the constitution is a representative of the entire citizenry. She lamented the zero involvement of women in the various processes of drafting the Constitution, nothing that the constitutional amendment process was another opportunity for Nigeria to do the right thing for women. “Women have been marginalised and have not been consulted in the various processes. Women’s views must be included in the constitution for it to be representative of the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” she said The conference was organised by Dinidari Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) advocating for the inclusion of women in decision-making processes and to ensure women live a better life. A 57-member ad-hoc committee constituted by the Senate has since commenced the 1999 constitution review process against backlash from some groups describing it as a waste of time and resources. The report is expected to be ready at the end of the first quarter of 2021. Meanwhile, the Executive Director of Dinidari Foundation, Ndi Kato, said everybody in Nigeria should be empowered to bring equal contributions to the table for a better nation. Kato while advocating for equal rights and opportunities for women said low inclusion of women in decision making processes will costs the country. “Less than 5 per cent of representation in politics, women are not in the table of decision making, women are primary targets of terrorism, women’s ownership of properties is at 11 per cent, the number of girls going to school is very low, we are still dealing with issues of child marriage. “This is not sustainable, equal rights and opportunities for women means a better life for all of us,” she said. 