The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has disclosed that incoming passengers are to observe seven days of self-isolation after arriving Nigeria. This was revealed by the chairman of the PTF Boss Mustapha, in provisional quarantine protocol for travelers arriving in Nigeria from any country last night. Part of the protocol stated that “All intending travelers to Nigeria must have tested negative for COVID-19 by PCR in country of departure pre-boarding. The PCR test must be within 96 hours before departure and preferably within 72 hours pre-boarding. For certain countries, COVID-19 PCR tests will only be acceptable from specified laboratories. “Tests done more than 96 hours before departure are not valid and persons will not be allowed to board. “All intending passengers are required to register via a national payment portal online (Nigeria International Travel Portal and pay for a repeat (second) PCR test to be done upon arrival in Nigeria. Once payment is completed, passengers will receive an e-mail from the selected laboratory of their choice providing them with the laboratory link to register for the repeat COVID-19 PCR test on the 7th day after arrival. Passengers will be able to choose a Sample Collection Centre and an appointment time and date for sample collection. A list of accredited private laboratory providers and Sample Collection Centres across the country will be available on the payment platform and the NCDC website. “Passengers will also fill in the online Health Declaration/Self-Reporting Form co-located on the same national payment platform and submit online or print out for presentation on arrival. They should ensure that the information/contact details provided on the form are correct, verifiable and that they can be reached on the phone number and address provided. Passengers must inform Port Health officials on arrival of any change in their health circumstances since completion of the Health Declaration/Self- Reporting Form; The protocol also noted that “prior to boarding, passengers are requested to upload their COVID-19 PCR negative results on to the national payment portal and bring along an electronic or hard copy of the result for presentation at the airport. At the time of boarding, all travelers will undergo thermal screening for fever and questioned for symptoms of COVID-19. Passengers with COVID-19 related signs and symptoms will not be allowed to board the flight; and “Airlines must only board passengers with negative COVID-19 test results that were done within the stipulated 96 hours before boarding. Airlines that board passengers without a negative COVID- 19 PCR tests or test results of more than 96 hours prior to boarding, will be sanctioned as follows: Non- Nigerians may be refused entry and returned to the point of embarkation at cost to the Airlines; Nigerians will be allowed entry but subjected to a mandatory quarantine of 8 -14 days (depending on results of COVID-19 PCR test done from day seven of arrival) at a facility approved by government and at cost to the passenger(s); and  “Airlines will be fined USD 3,500 per passenger for failure to comply with the pre-boarding requirements.” Meanwhile, on arrival in Nigeria, the protocol added that “all passengers/persons arriving in Nigeria will be required: To go through the routine Port Health screening and present electronic or print-out evidence of pre-boarding PCR test results and evidence of payment/appointment for a repeat PCR test, in-country; present their international passports for clearance through the Nigerian Immigration Service System’s Migrants Identification Data Analysis System (MIDAS). Passengers’ biodata page and picture will be forwarded to all COVID-19 PCR Sample Collection Centers to enable proper identification before sample collection. Passports will not be retained by the Nigerian Immigration Service “ Proceed on a 7-day self-isolation/quarantine, during which time they are to avoid physical interaction with friends, family, colleagues, and other members of the public (i.e. must observe strict physical and social distancing). Passengers are please reminded to check their emails regularly for updates regarding the arrangement for their repeat COVID-19 PCR test from the laboratory of their choice; present themselves at the sample collection centers on the 7th day of arrival; samples will be taken, and a COVID-19 PCR test done; a reminder text message may be sent to the passenger by the private laboratory provider a day before the appointment. “Passengers who fail to submit themselves at the sample collection centers on day seven of arrival will be sent text reminders and their details forwarded to the State Public Health Department teams and NCDC for active follow-up; Private laboratories will be required to forward details of passengers who decline repeat PCR test by day 14 of arrival for sanctioning. “These passengers may be sanctioned with suspension of their passports or inclusion on a travel watchlist for six months and denied foreign travel for this period.”  