The African Regional Organisation of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC-Africa) has described as a welcome development, the news of the amendment of the labour laws in Qatar which removes restrictions to migrant workers’ ability to change jobs and employers. In a statement signed by ITUC general secretary, Comrade Kwasi Adu-Amankwah, the regional labour body said the removal of the employer permission regime would make employment relations, especially for migrant workers more humane and a facilitator for better labour migration governance. LEADERSHIP Friday reports that the employee restriction is one of the conditions tied to the Kafala sponsorship system that most Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) States and Middle East countries utilize in the recruitment of migrant workers. While commending the Qatar government, Adu-Amankwah noted that the removal of the restriction condition would also significantly eliminate the slavery-like relationship tied to the Kafala sponsorship employment system. The Pan African trade union umbrella body that represents over 17 million organised workers in 52 of the 54 African countries also lauded the decision of the Gulf State of Qatar to establish a new national minimum wage, which is to be enjoyed by all categories of workers. The ITUC-Africa however said whilst Qatar has continued to demonstrate real and genuine commitments to advance the better protection and promotion of the human and labour rights of labour migrants, other GCC States notably Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates being the two biggest labour migrants employers within the GCC arrangement are lethargically slow to change. The statement reads further, “Worse still, there are signs and reports that these countries, especially Saudi Arabia are regressing on migrants’ human and labour rights guarantees. A recent UK’s Sunday Telegraph report gave a harrowing and unacceptable account of how the government of Saudi Arabia is maltreating African migrants during COVID-19 containment measures.” “The newspaper reported that scores of African migrants were locked up in inhabitable shelters, some tortured and starved.” Also speaking on the growing concerns over Saudi Arabia’s maltreatment of African migrants, Comrade Akhator Joel Odigie, the deputy general secretary of the ITUC-Africa called on the African Union to investigate the Sunday Telegraph’s report and to demand that Saudi Arabia makes restitution. He added that African organised labour would continue to work with her allies to continue to pile pressure on Saudi Arabia to dismantle her labour migration Kafala system and embrace accountability. 