The Joint health workers union, Federal Neuro-Psychiatric, Kaduna branch, has embarked on a 7-day warning strike, in compliance with the National body’s directive for a nationwide strike to drive home their several demands.
Speaking to Newsmen in Kaduna the union through the branch Chairman, Comrade Atule Emmanuel, frowned at the discrimination and unfair treated meted on the Union by the Federal government, through the Ministry of health in favor of the Medical Doctors while not according same to the Health workers.
He said a full-fledged strike would be embarked upon if the government fails to meet their demands within the stipulated time.
According to him, the array of issues in contention are not unconnected to adjustment the Salary structures as done for the medical Doctors, the 65 years retirement to our members, the implementa-tion of court judgments, payment of with-held April-May salary structures
He added the issues of employment of more health workers, payment of the 40-50% covid-19 allow-ances for health for specialist and teaching hospitals as agreed by the Federal government are ger-mane to avert a full blown industrial action.
The health workers union maintained that it consist of 90% of the health workforce and yet relegated to the background by the remaining 10%, which are the medical doctors who enjoy the support and privileges of the minister of health and labour who both Medical Doctors.
“And you know that healthcare is a team work, you must bring the pharmacist together, you bring the lab scientist, the social health worker and all of them together before you get result, so we are calling on government to adjust the Jo he’s u salary structures as done by the medical doctors.”
Another he said is the issue of adjustment of retirement age from 60-65years. So that retirement will not catch up with their health professionals when they are needed most, adding that “we are short of staff so we need the extension so that they services of these professional would be used, so that the health system in Nigeria will improve.” He also called on government to implement court judgments. “We discovered that the government is not implementing court judgments which is bad. We are calling on them to ensure that all the cases that we won in the courts of law are obeyed, so that implementation are followed suit.”