The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that the October 10 governorship election in Ondo state, will still go on as scheduled, despite the fire incident that occurred on Thursday night, at the state office of the commission. The Ondo State office of the INEC was gutted by fire and some electoral materials, particularly the card reader machines procured for the forthcoming election were destroyed by the inferno. Addressing journalists on the incident at the commission’s headquarters in Alagbaka, Akure, on Friday, the Resident Electoral Commissioner in the state, Ambassador Rufus Akeju, said the schedule of the election remains unchanged despite the ugly development. The INEC official who explained further that the cause of the inferno was yet unknown, however, affirmed that investigation was ongoing to unravel the cause of the incident. Piqued by the fire incident the PDP has said that foul play cannot be ruled out. The party in a statement by its publicity secretary, Mr. Kennedy Peretei, said it received with disappointment, the news that fire gutted the state INEC headquarters Thursday night and consumed a container bearing over 5000 card reader machines. It warned that the people of the state should not be taken for granted by INEC resorting to the use of manual devices, as against the use of electronic card readers on election day. Reacting to the development, the Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organization (EJCO) said, “We cannot rule out a foul play in the mystery fire that completely razed down the state INEC office; now, our fate is in the hands of God. A statement by the Head, Media Research for the organisation, Mr. Samuel Fasua, said, “For a while now, our main rival in this race has been in the eye of the storm over accusation that it was using loan assistance decoy to collect the pin codes in the Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) of drivers, artisans and other professionals across the state. However, the INEC official said, “Up till now, the actual cause of the fire is unknown but relevant security agencies have commenced an investigation and you will be further briefed as events unfold. “Let me use this medium to allay the fears of the electorate, political parties, and our stakeholders and the people of Ondo State that the fire incident will not affect the conduct of the forthcoming election in any form neither will it lead to the postponement of the election. Necessary arrangements have been put in place for the replacement of the damaged materials. “Let me reiterate that our determination to conduct a free, fair, credible, and successful election remains undaunted. We shall not rest on our oars as an Election Management Body(EMB) to always pursue the vision and mission of being an EMB that meets the aspirations of the Nigerian people.”v