Just as global social media and technology giant, Facebook was informing the Federal Government about its decision to open a Nigerian
office in Lagos, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN has restated the
determination of the Buhari administration to keep boosting the
nation’s technology sector and digital economy. According to a statement by his spokesman, Laolu Akande Prof. Osinbajo
stated this on Friday during a fireside chat with Facebook’s Vice
President on Global Affairs and Communications, former UK Deputy Prime
Minister, Sir Nick Clegg. The chat focused on the digital economic
pillar of the Nigerian Economic Sustainability Plan, NESP. Clegg and other Facebook officials, including Ebele Okobi, Facebook’s
Head of Public Policy, Africa, had informed the Vice President about
the decision to open its second African office in Lagos before the end
of the year. It would be recalled that a delegation of the Federal Government led
by the VP including the Communications & Digital Economy Minister,
Dr. Isa Ali Pantami, had visited Silicon Valley in 2018 and one of the
issues on the table then was how such global tech giants like Facebook
could have full representation in the country, including a Nigerian
office. According to the Vice President, during the fireside chat on Friday,
the focus of the Nigerian government on the digital sector is crucial
in various socio-economic aspect of national life, from education,
e-commerce, social investment programmes to the activities of
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of government. Meanwhile, the vice president has said teaching young people that
there are huge rewards from creativity, innovation with a culture of
integrity in business and personal life, coupled with hardwork and
diligence, is the foundation of a good and prosperous society. Vice President Osinbajo, in a statement by his media aide, Laolu
Akande, stated this yesterday while delivering the keynote address at
the 111th Founders’ Day Lecture of King’s College, Lagos. According to Prof. Osinbajo “when people are nurtured in the notion
that rent-seeking or the prebendal capture of wealth or benefit by
access to power is the path to success, then the society will not
prosper. A few will capture all the resources, everyone else will be
poor or on their way there.” He stated that Nigerians are gifted with attributes of confidence,
resilience and mental acuity that is by any standard, exceptional,
adding that this is best demonstrated in how “we excel even in other
countries in sciences, medicine and even politics.”