The Senate Minority Leader, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia South), has revealed that his life has been full of coincidences in the cause of fighting for what is right in the society, hence his decision to join others in speaking to Nigerians on critical National issues. Abaribe spoke on Monday at his National Assembly office when he recieved poets from the University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) on wrote a book on him titled, “Ala Asaala, Silhouette of Abaribe”. The Abia lawmaker said during his travails as the Deputy Governor of Abia State in 2000, the late Oba of Lagos, Adeyinka Oyekan, had invited him to Lagos and conferred on him the title of “Alasela”, meaning a successful hardworking person. Abaribe added that the ‘Alasela’ title was pronounced by his people from the South-East as “Ala Asaala”, which means ‘enlargement of coast’ in Ibo language and it has come to stay till today. “Since then, it has been successful endeavours for me and enlargement of coast politically, having been in the Senate since 2007 till date and even becoming Minority Leader, paving the way for me to speak to Nigerians on critical issues and join other stakeholders in putting things aright,” he said. On the book, which is a collection of poems, he said the literary work used in depicting his little contributions to the Nigerian society by the African Spontanists Movement (ASM) will further spur him to do more for the advancement of his society and humanity at large. “The message you the poets from University of Nigeria Nsukka convey to me through this literary work is far more profound and will serve as a required tonic for me in the service to humanity and God,” Abaribe added. Earlier, the leader of the Movement, Uchechukwu Chigbu, while presenting the book, explained that it was a poetic presentation of Abaribe’s service to humanity over the years. According to Chigbu, the literary work is not a biography which may end up in the archives but a poetry, which will outlive the writers and the person honoured with the work. “The poetry encompasses perspective of service – driven politics, liberation and struggle for just cause in the society which will generate reactions and discussions by generation after generation,” he noted. For her part, the Director of Institute of African Studies at the UNN, Prof. Florence Orabueze, in her Foreword to the book, which was sighted by LEADERSHIP, said, “Ala Asaala is a true art for saying what it says it is. It is epic, awakening, engaging, revealing, vibrating, agonising and infusing of tunes, truths, thoughts and emotions that stay with the reader long after sounds die away.”