By Israel Bulus, Kafanchan The youth wing of the Southern Kaduna People’s Union (SOKAPU), has called on government to rebuild the region, following destruction of lives and property by terrorists. According to the youths, while they continue to mourn the barbaric killings of their beloved brethren by criminal herdsmen militias and battered by the destruction of properties and farm produce worth millions of naira as a result of the carnage across different parts of Southern Kaduna, added that it is incumbent on the government to show concern and resettle the displaced persons. A statement issued by the National Youth leader, Comrade John Isaac Sir Jay, said they are further bittered by the fact that no attempt have been made by both the State and the Federal Government to rehabilitate, reconstruct and reintegrate communities affected by what they described as genocide of their people. “It is against this backdrop that we the southern Kaduna youths believed that any sincere commitment to bringing about peace and promoting peaceful co-existence on the part of government and ameliorating the sufferings of the affected communities will involve the following steps; “Bringing a total end to the killings. Masterminders and culprits identified and brought to book. The implementation of a deliberate action aim at effectively handling the humanitarian crisis, effective reintegration and rebuilding programme as well as the effective reconstruction of social, economic and physical infrastructures across the affected communities,” the group said. According to the youths, there should be an all inclusive peace building initiative with SOKAPU given a platform “Ensuring adequate security and a secured atmosphere for agricultural activities to thrive. Traditional institutions across Southern Kaduna be reversed to its former status quo as it were in 2015. “The SOKAPU Youth Wing therefore calls on the Federal and state government to urgently rebuild ravaged communities and reintegrate families and persons displaced by this acts of terror. Anything short of the above will amount to negligence and complicity in the plight of Southern Kaduna people,” the youth added.