The decision of the Kogi State Government not to impose a lockdown due to the COVID -19 pandemic, raised eyebrows. However, recent events may have vindicated the governor, writes JONATHAN NDA- ISAIAH. Nigeria experienced its first case of COVID-19 in February. And to further stem the spread of the deadly pandemic, the federal government had imposed lockdowns in Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital territory. Some states followed suit by imposing lockdowns. However, Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, had vehemently refused to impose lockdown or admit the state had any case of COVID-19. His actions was widely criticised by some medical personnel, political and economic analysts who questioned his motives. The thinking was that with Kogi sharing borders with about six states and a gateway between the north and south , it would be impossible for the state not to be an epicentre of the pandemic in the north central and the country at large. Some analysts had also predicted harvests of deaths in Kogi, for its refusal to allow COVID -19 tests in the state. But five months down the line, the Kogi Governor may have been vindicated. The famous quote by Maggie Kuhn “Say the truth, even if your voice shakes”” aptly captures the Kogi situation. Recall that Governor Yahaya Bello, it was, who took up the gauntlet and stood up with courage to speak the truth at a time it was a scarce commodity, bravely putting political alliances and economic interests on the line to resist the mass hysteria of the COVID-19 pandemic, which hypnotised all but few of our countrymen, including those in his ruling party at both state and national levels. Time and again, Bello refused to be cowed down even in the face of unrelenting and sometimes coordinated media attack on his person with some actually questioning his intellect. What started as a call to be cautious, and not give in to the rapidly spreading global panic response to the pandemic, of which little was then known – despite claims of advancement in development of vaccines, there are still gaping knowledge gaps in the totality of the coronavirus as we speak – was viciously turned around and turned into political capital to vilify the governor. Yet, he stood his ground and, to borrow the words of Ms Kuhn again, left his personal comfort behind to put his body on the line and stood before the people to speak his truth. At every opportunity he had, he spoke up. He said, to his critics, “I have said over and over again since COVID-19 situation was thrust upon the world, nothing is altogether new under the sun. “Whether the coronavirus is natural or artificial, whether it came from China or elsewhere, whether by happenstance or hostile action, we need an evolving synergy between science and common sense, medicine and governance to beat it. “That is the only way citizens can find peace between the actual and stated cause of death in a great number of cases.” It is instructive to note that the governor had predicted that the lockdown of the economy would have a devastating effect on agriculture and, by extension, food supply. “All across the country, farming is getting difficult because of the lockdown. Our farmers cannot go to their farms any longer. “By the time their savings and the monies that are being distributed by the government (Conditional Cash Transfer) is spent on buying the little food available, we would be forced to open our borders to imported rice. “We would be forced to open our borders to the importation of canned foods. We would be forced to open our borders for junks to be dumped on us again.” A political analyst, Ado Idris in Abuja, in his assertions said what the governor foresaw is our reality today. He said “With a stratospheric rise in the prices of foodstuff, the Federal Government as part of efforts to shore up shortfalls in food production, has been forced to issue a permit to four companies to import maize to “strike a balance between food imports and local production capacities to meet anticipated shortfall,” according to a directive by the Central Bank of Nigeria. “If you ignore the high-falutin prose of the directive, you would discover the only person who anticipated these shortfalls and cried out about it was Yahaya Bello, but all he got was scorn from those who claim to know better even in the face of commonsense and, I daresay, good conscience.” Another social media commentator Olu Dayo said Governor Yahaya Bello has been proven right, but rather than thump his chest in fulfillment that he’s justified, “I’m sure the governor would rather we hadn’t gotten to this sorry position borne out of our fear of a phenomenon we had precious little knowledge about. “And to those who criticised Bello, including alluding to his youthful age as reason for his exuberance, let us conclude that Ms Kuhn advocated that younger people should be taken more seriously and given more responsibility by society. What if we start with Yahaya Bello?” However Rakiya Isah stated that the governor may have just been lucky that the pandemic did not ravage the state. She argued that providence and weather may have played a major role. “ I expected a harvest of deaths in Kogi to be honest, but we have been proved wrong. It may just be a case of luck and providence.” Indeed , we can only conjecture but maybe if we had paid more heed to Governor Yahaya Bello’s outcry, rather than cloak it in garments of politics and intellectual arrogance, who knows if we might have been spared some or all of the terrible hardships Nigerians are currently going through. So far, the pandemic has been blamed for the astronomical increase in price of foods and galloping inflation.