Karl Max probably had Nigerians in mind when he posited that religion is the opium of the people. An average Nigerian politician has perfected the act of using religion and ethnicity to further divide the people. Have you noticed that when politicians are sharing our common patrimony, religion and ethnicity are thrown out of the window, but when they are called to account for their crimes, they start screaming that they are being persecuted because of their religion or ethnicity and they always have a ready pool of jobless youths to protest in their support. Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari assented to the Companies and Allied Matters Bill 2020, which was recently passed by the National Assembly. The President’s action on the document repealed and replaced the extant Companies and Allied Matters Act, 1990, and introduced several corporate legal innovations geared toward enhancing ease of doing business in the country. The story barely generated reactions in the media. However, when the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) raised the alarm that some provisions in the new law are meant to stifle the church, the social media went on an overdrive. Even after the government painstaking explained that it was not meant to gag the church, the explanations fell on deaf ears, the word was already out. The Nigerian government is using the backdoor to Islamise the country . Ironically, even Christians that have not attended a church or opened their Bible in years jumped on the bandwagon that the government wants to stifle the church. Similarly, the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) had invited Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufa’i to speak at its conference but later withdrew the invitation after sections of the association kicked against it in protest against the governor’s handling of the protracted violent crisis in the southern part of his state. Before you knew, the narrative was changed to a Muslim Vs. Christian, North Vs South row. The NBA further exacerbated the situation by asking Muslim lawyers to nominate another Muslim Governor in place of the disinvited El-Rufa’i. This is taking tomfoolery to ridiculous level. Was El- Rufai invited to speak because he is a Muslim in the first place? By doing so, the NBA made it a religious issue. That was how some northern state chapters of NBA and Muslim lawyers threatened to also boycott the event. Whenever President Buhari makes any appointment, the first things people look at these days are the appointee’s religion and tribe, merits and capacity do not matter. We can’t continue like this. Sadly, all our institutions have been affected by the religious bug. Nigeria boast of the biggest churches in the world and even a large population of Muslims and yet we are still rated as one of the most corrupt nations in the world. Every government function starts and ends with prayers, and yet the people will be plotting how to loot in the same meeting. Almost every Government House has a church or mosque, yet even satan gets ashamed when you hear of the massive corruption going on in those offices. Religion is meant to guide man to leave a worthy life, impacting positively on your generation, but here in Nigeria we use religion to steal and political leaders use it to divide and improverish the people. Have you ever wondered why the most developed countries are the least religious countries? There is no correlation whatsoever between religion and development. With all religions in Nigeria, we have over 80million people living in extreme poverty, we have the two of the top five deadliest terrorist groups in the world and it is safe to surmise that corruption lives here. I was happy three years ago when Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo,  said no amount of prayer and fast by Nigerians could move the nation forward without hard work. Osinbajo said as a Pastor himself, he understood the law of sowing and reaping and knew the implication of leaving what was supposed to be done undone. I guess he spoke the mind of a majority of Nigerians, no amount of prayer and fasting can turn Nigeria to Dubai.