A retired federal permanent secretary, Chief Robert Usman Audu, has advocated for gender equality for Nigerian women and girls in the constitution review exercise regarding elective and appointive positions in the country. He advocated for 35 per cent of the positions to be reserved for women. In a memo entitled “Gender Equality for Women and Girls: Practical Application of One Third Participation” sent to the Senate Adhoc Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) dated September 7, 2020 and exclusively obtained by LEADERSHIP Friday, the former senior civil servant said his position was based on his stint as Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs and Youth Development. Chief Audu, who holds the traditional title of ‘Agenyi Atta Igala’, added that his stint at the ministry afforded him a “deep insight into the enormous human resources endowment and expertise that reside in the Nigerian women and the need to tap into it for the benefit of the country.” He noted that the Babangida Administration encouraged women to showcase their potentials, adding that the Obasanjo Government also painstakingly identified key women technocrats and brought them into governance and they made their mark admirably. “Various countries of the world devised schemes to encourage and firm root participation by women and other deprived groups like minorities and the physically challenged in the development process and USA was noted for ‘Affirmative Action’ in the 70s to provide opportunity for women and minority groups. “The United Nations took the ‘bull by the horns’ and what the world is doing now is to confirm and implement development goals to encourage the endangered gender,” Chief Audu added. He pointed out that after the famous Beijing Declaration, the issue of women participation took the centre stage with successive “Beijing Plus” follow-up conferences recording progress in schemes for women. “A major outcome is the agreement of 35 percent participation by women in the affairs of nations and communities. Nigeria must key into this resolve by the world to partner with our women to take our country to greater heights. “Practical application of the 35 per cent should be simplified to mean one-third of any human endeavour or material share without prejudice and create an organic structure for participation of women. “Applying this principle to political representation, for example, chairmanship of local government/councilor, governor or president, Senator or member House of Representatives should be shared in the ratio of 2:1 for male and female gender respectively. “The import of my memorandum is to apply and adopt a ratio of 2:1 or one-third to women in every endeavour without prejudice,” Audu explained. 