Ejike Ejike Abuja The Sub-sahara Peace and Awareness Foundation has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the police bill, noting that the new Act will reposition the Nigeria police force. The foundation, in a statement signed by the organizing secretary, Sub-sahara Peace and Awareness Foundation, Abubakar Isah, said “a careful perusal through the provisions of the Act shows that they allow for a cutting-edge and world-class policing (as required in this age and time). Even more significantly and in keeping with the administration’s signature commitment to transparency and accountability, the Act contains enough checks toward ensuring that resources are managed well through a robust funding and spending framework. “We hereby express our utmost delight and appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for signing into law the Police Bill, 2020. “The singular action is unprecedented, timely and highly commendable. It no doubt underscores the administration’s desire and resolve to re-position the Police Force. “We would like to appeal to fellow compatriots to continue to support and cooperate with our police, be law abiding at all times, and take advantage of the new Act toward making our country safe, peaceful and crime-free.” The statement further added that “it is also quite gratifying that finally community policing has earned a legal backing, while the fundamental issue of citizens’ rights has also received a huge boost, through a number of provisions in the Act. ” Overall and on a scale, we believe that the Act is capable of transforming the police institution and making it more efficient and effective as well as elevating it to the pedestal of a truly professional, modern, 21st Century police force. “As a group that promotes good governance, we join all patriotic citizens in saying “thank you Mr. president.” Kudos also go to our federal legislators for making the Act possible and the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu Abubakar, for his leadership and inspiration.”