By Jonathan Nda- Isaiah, A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governorship candidate in Imo State, Uche Nwosu, has urged the United States to name and ‘shame’ fraudulent politicians affected by the Visa ban to serve as a deterrent to others Nwosu who contested the 2019 governorship election, also called for the inclusion of officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), who aid politicians to manipulate the electoral process in the sanction. The APC Chieftain disclosed that he was a victim of INEC manipulations in the 2019 election, insisting that it is impossible for politicians to rig elections without the connivance of INEC officials. He said “the recent Visa ban slammed on some politicians by the US is a welcomed development. Going by my own experience, I commend the US for the action but it is not just the politicians, the INEC Officials and the University Professors they send to conduct elections, take for example, one Professor, Francis Otunta, who conducted my election in Imo State and saw that the election did meet the requirements but went ahead to announce the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as the winner and asked anybody who is offended should go to Court. “Also take for example some corrupt INEC officials, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Imo State, who supervised the electoral malpractice and his cohorts are still in INEC today, nothing happened to them. I think the US should look into the INEC, they are the major culprit. “Most of the REC are the problem, they collude with the politicians to rig elections, so they should focus their tentacles on the REC and the University Professors that they engage to facilitate the fraud. If they reject the bribe offer by politicians to rig the elections, the electoral process will be credible”. Nwosu added  that to sanitize the electoral process, all the INEC officials that participated in the 2019 general election should be replaced with new officials that have not been compromised. On the Edo State governorship election, Nwosu, enjoined INEC officials, security operatives and other stakeholders to allow the people to elect a governor of their choice, adding that, “election should not be a do or die affair”. He said “The US, the United Nations and others should focus on the Edo election because it is generating serious tension. They should identify and name those people threatening to compromise the election, it is not enough to just say that you have banned them. “The Inspector General of Police, the Military are equal to the task but the people should also protect their votes. At the end of the day what the people need is he candidate of their choice”. 