  By ANTHONY AWUNOR, Lagos Convergence partners’ subsidiary and multi-cloud service provider, inq. has expanded its operations into Nigeria and other African markets. Despite Covid-19, inq. was officially launched into the Nigerian market recently, bringing to fruition, the dream of building a pan African network across African cities to re-imagine a better future through digital solutions. Formerly Synergy Communications and with headquarters in Mauritius, inq. has equally extended its reach via the 100% acquisition of Vodacom Business Africa’s operations in Nigeria, Zambia and Cote d’Ivoire with a further planned acquisition in Cameroon pending regulatory approvals. This landmark transaction grows inq.’s regional footprint as a leading enterprise solutions provider to 12 cities in 7 countries across Africa including its existing operations in Botswana, Malawi and South Africa with an additional investment in Mozambique. Under the inq. banner the company will embark on the next phase of building a unified Pan-African cloud and digital service provider, bringing to market a very relevant suite of next generation technology solutions in the fields of Edge AI, SD-WAN/NFV and Cloud. Currently operating in 12 African cities: Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano, Gaborone, Lusaka, Ndola, Blantyre, Lilongwe, Mzuzu, Abidjan and Johannesburg. The inq. team prides itself on global best practice methodologies customized to local customs in each of the 16 cities, covering different sectors including banking, oil & gas, FMCG, mining, health, real estate, IT, public sector and logistics. According to the managing director of inq. Nigeria, Valentine Chime “Covid-19 has accelerated digital transformation, and inq. is perfectly positioned to deliver intelligent connectivity through seamless delivery of cloud and digital services and technologies to our clients. We are about simpler, seamless solutions”. inq. Holdings Limited is a subsidiary of the Convergence Partners Communications Infrastructure Fund, a fund dedicated solely to communications infrastructure and related services and technologies across sub-Saharan Africa.