Bakare Owolabi Ibrahim who is better known as MoneymakerDMW is a member of the famous DMW gang, the close-knit group made up of a large number of talented showbiz personalities who are either associated with or signed unto Davido Music Worldwide (DMW) record. For him, working with Afropop superstar Davido is indeed dream come true.
He gives an insight into what it is like being in the midst of one of the famous Nigerian musicians of the day and the thrill that comes with belonging to the ‘30 Billion gang.’ “Working with Davido is like a dream comes true for me,” he stated. “I have met a lot of influential people through him and I have travelled to a lot of places. I am living the kind of life I prayed for.”
According to him, he has had a lot of memorable moments with the “Fall” hitmaker. “My most memorable moment with Davido is uncountable; we have been together on different occasions and travelled to far countries of the world together. Every moment we spend together is a good memory,” he said.
MoneymakerDMW also considered members of the group his role models. “I consider Davido my role model; so also Tobechukwu Victor Okoh, a.k.a. Peruzzi and Adewale Mayowa Emmanuel, alias Mayorkun,” he averred. When asked to describe the personality of the Risky hitmaker, MoneymakerDMW said:“Davido has a great personality, he is ever humble and very talented; he also has a heart of gold. He wants the best for everyone in his team and has no ill feeling against anyone.” MoneymakerDMW, an alumnus of Federal College of Education, Akoka, Lagos, went down memory lane to recount his tribulation during the trying period of his life. “I faced a lot of challenges in my early years due to the fact that I left home and my family at an early age. I passed through an especially difficult period when I was a student at the Federal College of Education. Paying my school fees was such a big problem because there was no one to support me financially. As a result, I had to work from street to street in order to earn money to pay my tuition fees,” he narrated. He added: “Despite the hardship, it never occurred to me to abandon my education because I believe being an educated person is important to my future as it will enable me to connect with the right people.”