A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Eze Chukwuemeka Eze has applauded the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari, to stick to honour and transparency in the just-concluded governorship election in Edo State.
He, however said that the unpleasant carriage and incoherent disposition of the former APC national chairman, Com-rade Adams  Oshiomole, singly led to the defeat of the governorship candidate of  the party, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu by the incumbent and governorship  candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Godwin Obaseki.
Eze, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt  yesterday, called on Nigerians to commend Buhari for allowing a  transparent process, describing him as a true statesman and democrat.
While appealing to Obaseki to find a place in his heart to forgive Oshiomhole and all those who helped him cause hav-oc in the APC, the party stalwart urged the re-elected governor to begin the process of taking back his position in the progressives’ family which he described as his natural habitat.
Eze said, “I join President Mohammadu Buhari in commending INEC and security agencies for displaying a high degree of competence and professionalism which translated into a peaceful and very successful electoral outing.”
“I wish to call on Nigerians to commend the President for allowing a  transparent process. He is a true statesman and democrat. With this  record, President Buhari has equalled the democratic feat of Dr.  Goodluck Jonathan, who al-lowed the votes of Edo people to count in  2012 when Adams Oshiomhole was reelected as Edo Governor against all  odds”. “It is heart-rending to learn that Edo State has been added to the
league of states like Zamafara, Rivers, Bauchi, Bayelsa, Benue,
Sokoto, Adamawa, and Oyo States where sheer administrative
incompetence and gross leadership malady occasioned by the self-styled
and kooky steering model of Adams Oshiomole scuttled the electoral
chances of the All Progressives Congress and deprived the majority
from having their way. “With the development in Edo, it is only fair to settle that
Oshiomhole’s membership of the APC is a curse which has brought brutal
misfortune and severe affliction on the party. However, I am appealing to Obaseki to find a place in his heart to
forgive Oshiomhole and all those who helped him cause havoc in the
APC. “The Edo State Governor to begin the process of taking back his
position in the progressives family which is his natural habitat
considering his numerous sacrifices and contributions in the formation
of the party, assuring that his place in the APC is still very much
reserved and intact.”