The Nigeria Tobacco Control Alliance (NTCA) yesterday paid a courtesy visit to the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) in Abuja with a call on the host for the enforcement of the total prohibition of Tobacco Advertising Promotion and Sponsorship (TAPS) in Nigeria. The NTCA team led by programme manager, Olu’Seun Esan congratulated Dr. Olalekan Fadolapo, the newly appointed chief executive officer (CEO) and registrar of the Council, and commended APCON for its longstanding commitment to public health and tobacco control in Nigeria. Esan said that Fadolapo’s appointment was coming at a crucial time that Nigeria needs her best. He noted that the new helmsman of the organisation was bringing on board his wealth of experience in advertising practice. He wished him good health and a fruitful tenure in the Council. Esan highlighted the dangers of tobacco in all its forms to public health and safety and emphasized why all stakeholders must not be deterred. He added that tobacco is the leading cause of non-communicable diseases and death worldwide, noting that about 16,100 lives are lost to tobacco every year in Nigeria beside the economic loss due to tobacco-induced morbidity and diseases in the country. He said that the tobacco industry goes all out to target the youths and children as replacement smokers for its customers most of whom would eventually have tobacco-induced diseases or die, adding that they do this through subtle advertisements and product placements specifically targeting the youths and children. Mr. Michael Olaniyan, the Technical Resource Person for West Africa, Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids (CTFK) who was also part of the NTCA delegation stated that, “the National Tobacco Control Act 2015 and its Regulations of 2019 is aimed at protecting the present and future generations of Nigerians and residents of Nigeria from the devastating health, social, economic and environmental consequences of use and exposure to tobacco and tobacco products.” He emphasized that, “The policies also seek to promote and protect Nigerians and residents’ right to health, life, physical integrity, safe and healthy workplace and other rights adversely impacted by tobacco and its products.” In the same light, Mr Olaniyan explained that, “The law prohibits all forms of tobacco advertising promotion and sponsorship as clearly stated in  Sections 12-14 of the Act“.” He said it is therefore, “important that APCON enforce the prohibition in the creative and advertising industry”. The delegation used the opportunity to further expatiate on the roles of APCON in implementing the prohibition of TAPS and requested for a stronger partnership with tobacco control advocates and initiatives in the country. In response, Fadolapo reiterated APCON’s commitment in ensuring that tobacco advertisements and promotions do not find their way into the advertising space. He said that APCON was ready to partner with NTCA and other stakeholders in furthering tobacco control, even as he urged the alliance to continue to amplify its activities in the media to reach the entire populace. 