RICHARD NDOMA, Calabar The Minister of state Mines, Steel Development, Dr. Ugochukwu Sampson Ugah has called for increased partnership and Collaboration between the federal and Cross River State Government in the development of the state’s abundant/ huge solid minerals potentials. The minister made the call in Calabar while speaking at the Executive Chambers of Cross State Governor’s Office during a courtesy visit to the Cross River State governor as part of his two day working visit to the state. Ugochukwu stressed that as a state which is blessed with over 33 solid mineral deposits adding that should the state decides to work in one accord with federal state and local communities in harnessing this deposits he is sure that the country stand the chance of shooting up its revenue base within the shortest possible time. In his words, the minister said, “We are here on a two day working visit to share with you the vision and policy of President Buhari in developing the nation’s solid mineral deposits. “We are also here to solicit your administration’s partnership and support in accelerating the development of the huge solid minerals found in Cross River State which is over 33. “The state is blessed with so much potentials and all stakeholders need to be sensitized on the need to conduct mining activities with due process. “The president is keen to revive the solid minerals sector and diversify the economy and strongly believes that the exploitation of our mineral potentials serves as a strong foundation for the diversification of our economy”, the Minister said. In his swift response to the minister’s statement, Gov Ben Ayade of Cross River State lauded the federal government for seeking to collaboration with the state in solid minerals development and pledged his support. Ayade urged the federal government to find a modus operandi to seek the approval of the state governments and their supervision before issuing mining cadastral to investors. Later at the stakeholders meeting with some miners, the Minister stressed that the government is committed to stamping out illegal mining in the country and collaborate with miners to ensure that environmental issues do not subsist. 