Few day after destroying substandard gas cylinders in Lagos, the Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) destroyed another set of substandard cables worth several millions of naira imported into the country through the seaport. The Director, Compliance and Inspectorate, SON, Engr. Obiora Manafa who supervised the destruction, disclosed that the substandard cables were seized when SON operatives raided warehouses across Lagos state. He said the substandard cables would have entered into the Nigerian markets, and used by Nigerians to electrify their homes. His words, “You know we are not in the ports which serves as the points of entry into the country. But, we depend on intelligence network to get our job done.”
“So, when we got information that a warehouse is keeping containers load of substandard cables, we went there and carry out tests on the cables. The text failed and we sealed the warehouse untill we evacuated all the products to our warehouse for further tests and secured court order for destruction.” He reiterated the need for SON officials to return to the seaports to ensure that substandard and dangerous goods do not find their way into the country anymore. “The substandard cables failed all physical tests, and did not meet the safety requirements of Nigeria. They are also not fire resistant even after installation. Mabafa said made-in-Nigeria cables are the best because the manufacturers adhere strictly to the regulations of standards. “Some of the imported cables do not meet standards and are not safe for use but we advise consumers to always visit SON’s website to confirm if such cables meet standards and are registered by the agency before they purchase.” “Today, we are destroying substandard cables that are dangerous for use, cables that can destroy properties if they are used, cables that can do a lot of harm to properties. “We have different kinds of cables seized from warehouses of importers, they are about four trucks altogether. We have other ones that are undergoing court processes and that will be destroyed once we get court orders for them but these ones, we have obtained court order and we are destroying them.” “We should not allow these cables to enter any home, it is our responsibility to protect lives and property. It is also our responsibility to make sure that these cables do not find their ways into the markets there are critical parameters such as conductor and insulator resistance which this cable failed. “They have failed these parameters woefully and we cannot allow the people to use them because these are the cables that when you go out from home and when you return you see your house raised down.