BY JOY YESUFU, Abuja The Nigerian representative of the African Union Economic, Social and Cultural Council (AU-ECOSOCC) Dr Tunji Asaolu has said development has become the guiding principle of the world at large noting that African Union is not lacking behind taking into consideration through AU Agenda 2023. Asaolu stated this in Abuja at the inauguration of the national standing committee of AU-ECOSOCC Nigeria. He said it is disheartening to note that our efforts seem to be falling into stagnation as the gap that separates the rich continent from ours is constantly growing wider. He said “there is a simple reason, development is not purely an economic problem. It implies factors other than money, being based on a much more valuable asset, human capital and this can be developed only through re awaking the spirit of Pan Africanism. In her address, minister of women affairs and social development, Dame Pauline Tallen who was represented by her special assistant, Jumai Idonije said for sustainable development to be guaranteed, gender must also be mainstreamed as development affects women and men differently. She said any meaningful development must be addressed through the women’s issues which are diverse and intrinsically linked to national development. Head, women and gender affairs of the cluster committee of AU-ECOSOCC, Ms Adaora Onyechere was full of gratitude for the commitment of the AU in general towards pushing the narrative on women’s mainstreaming across all sectors and across Africa. She said the February 2020 African Union Summit held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, afforded African women and girls various platforms and opportunities to rally support and advance actions towards the implementation of commitments on gender equality and women’s empowerment (GEWE). “The Women and Gender Affairs Cluster committee is tasked with responsible for leading, guiding, defending and coordinating the AU ECOSOCC efforts on gender equality and development and promoting women’s empowerment by ensuring that African countries comply with the AU Solemn Declaration on Gender Equality” she added. 