Edo State-born billionaire businessman, Capt Hosa Okunbo has said that he supporting the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, for the September 19, 2020 governorship election in the state because he has a better vision for the people by the incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Okunbo, who narrated his needless running battle with Obaseki to journalists in Abuja, yesterday, said that Edo needs a change of guard to move forward. He asserted that Obaseki had failed the people and does not deserve another term in office because he has only huge indebtedness and violence to show for his four years in office. Okunbo stated that he was naturally a peaceful man but lamented that “Obaseki has dragged me from my comfort zone to the market square by attacking my business interest and integrity.” While defending his choice of Ize-Iyamu, Okunbo said that he had sat down with PDP candidate and “he has showed his vision for the state to me and coincidentally he is a farmer, and has vision for farming “And he is passionate about it. Obaseki’s said that he was going to farm, but where is the farm? I believe pastor is a man of God and would deliver. What caught my attention and fancy in him is that he said he would farm, which is in line with my passion. I support Ize-Iyamu with my hard-earned sweat and not stolen money. When I believe in something, I can spend my last kobo for that cause.” Reacting to how he will recoup his money, Okunbo said: “I am not expecting financial return. Edo State is in huge debt, it has been mortgaged. If I dare to ask Ize-Iyamu for a kobo when he is elected, our fight will begin immediately. What I am doing is charity for the future of our children and the state. My ambition is to be able to go back to my people to share what God has blessed me with them. “I want to also protect the Benin Kingdom which has lasted for centuries, money is not my ambition any more, money is an instrument and will remain so to man. if you say I am bankrolling Ize-Iyamu, so be it,” he said. Okunbo further said that if Obaseki was re-elected, he would stay away from Benin for the next four years, adding that “I have never lived in Benin.” According to him, “Ize-Iyamu is known to me for 30 years. He is a testimony that God can turnaround anybody. Since I knew him as a Christian, I have always seen him as a genuine man. Good people should come to our politics, he has a farm where he has been farming and training farmers. I have no reason to doubt him that he means well for the people.” He continued: “I have never fronted for any politician and anybody in my life. The. Police and even the EFCC have never invited me for once for any fraudulent case.” Commenting on his opposition to Obaseki’s second term, Okunbo said: “A governor that clan not manage 24 members of the House of Assembly from the same party does not deserve re-election. From the inception of his administration, he started complaining that they want to impeach him. What did Obaseki’s do that he was afraid of impeachment from the very beginning. What is all these kill them and pepper them.” Asked of the chances of the APC’s candidate, Okunbo declared that “Obaseki is not on ground. What you see and hear is mere propaganda. If there is a free and transparent election even today in Edo, Ize-Iyamu will win.” On whether ego or interest was at stake in the election, Okunbo replied: ” I am a humble person and I have always been, I have no ego but I am concerned about the future of our children and the liberation of Edo State from someone who behaves as an emperor in this modern day.”