By Anayo Onukwugha, Port Harcourt The Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), has appealed to the re-elected Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, to be magnanimous in victory. This is as chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Kingsley Wenenda Wali, has blamed former National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for the party’s Defeat in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State. PANDEF National Chairman, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga (rtd), in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt yesterday, congratulated Obaseki on his victory in last Saturday’s governorship election. It called on all stakeholders in Edo State to accept the outcome of the poll as the decision of the people, and work with the re-elected governor in the interest of the peace, stability and development of the state. While commending the people of Edo State their peaceful conduct during the election, PANDEF lauded the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the security agencies for providing a level playing field, and allowing the will of the people to prevail. The statement reads in part: “PANDEF describes Governor Obaseki’s re-election as Governor of Edo State for another four years, as vote of confidence on him by the people of Edo for his performance in the last four years. “PANDEF further commends the people of Edo State for their peaceful conduct during the election. And the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and the Security agencies for providing a level playing field, and allowing the will of the people to prevail. “PANDEF appeals to Governor Obaseki to be magnanimous in victory while calling on all stakeholders in Edo State to accept the outcome of the poll as the decision of the people, and work with the Governor in the interest of the peace, stability and development of the Edo State. “On our part in PANDEF, we are pleased with Governor Obaseki’s antecedent, and therefore, will continue to identify with him, and the other five governors of the South-South Geo-Political Zone, as well as, all critical Stakeholders, in our efforts to foster unity, peace, and the development of the Region, through Restructuring.” Meanwhile, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Kingsley Wenenda Wali, has blamed former National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for the party’s Defeat in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State. Wali, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt yesterday, said Oshiomhole and his sponsors have ended up creating a fighter in Governor Godwin Obaseki. He said: “It is a case of the proverbial chicken home to roost. Adams (Oshiomhole) and his sponsor created an unnecessary storm to serve their ego. “They have ended up creating a fighter of the victorious governor. It is a strong message to all who act god because they once had the grace of God in their lives. “However, the biggest revelation is that the dooms day most people feared never happened. We are not aware of wide spread violence as speculated and hyped by the agents of neo-colonialism.”