Commercial activities were halted temporarily in the early hours of Wednesday as butchers and traders in Edo State shut down abattoirs, meat markets and shops in the state to show solidarity and rally support for the re-election bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The elated traders, in spite of the Wednesday’s heavy rainfall in Benin City, turned out in their numbers canvassing votes to ensure victory for the governor and his deputy and running mate, Rt. Hon. Comr. Philip Shaibu. President of Association of Edo Practicing Butchers, Comrade Akhere Odigie, commended the Obaseki-led government for creating the enabling environment for business growth and stability and for abolishing illegal levies in the state. Odigie noted: “We, the butchers have agreed in totality that Obaseki is our next governor and he shall continue to occupy the seat of government till 2024 because of his developmental strides and laudable programmes for butchers. “Today, we have shut down our abattoirs and meat shops, along with other meat sellers across the various markets in Edo State to endorse Godwin Obaseki.” According to him, “Since Obaseki assumed duty as Governor of Edo State, butchers in the state have known peace. “We are all here to endorse and reiterate our support for the re-election bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Hon. Philip Shaibu. “We have resolved that come September 19, 2020, we will vote for him en masse and stay back after voting to defend our votes. We support one man, one vote and say no to the godfather.” “We are using this medium to reach out to the entire butchers in the state and our supporters as well as the prospective buyers and meat consumers to mobilise and vote for Governor Godwin Obaseki. A vote for Obaseki will move the meat market in Edo State to greater heights,” he added. Responding, Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Edo State Council, Comrade Roland Osakue, commended the group for their peaceful disposition, noting: “I commend your efforts for coming out to visit us in spite of the rainfall. We are grateful to you. “We have heard what you have said, please be peaceful as you go about your activities. Do not allow miscreants to infiltrate your midst. We owe it a duty as citizens to protect government property which belongs to all of us.” “Tax payers’ money must be used judiciously for the benefit of our people. It is your right to endorse any candidate of your choice because it is your fundamental human right,” Osakue noted. 