By Richard Ndoma, Calabar All is now set by the traditional rulers, Obanlikwu LGA to deal decisively with men who still engage in “money woman marriage” even when the tradition had been abolished by elders in council in their domain. “Money woman” tradition is an age long tradition where parents trade their underage girls to an aged man for marriage for material gains or exchange the under age girls for commodity even when the girl have no affection for the man. Obanlikwu LGA Paramount ruler HRH Emos Uyimula Item disclosed this to journalists while granting an interview with our reporter warning his subjects still holding on to the tradition which described as barbaric to desist forthwith or be sanctioned by council of traditional rulers. The monarch who spoke yesterday in Calabar at the end of a media briefing organized by African Centre for Leadership Strategy and Development (Centre LSD) under the Spotlight Initiative funded by the European union and the United Nations called on his kinsmen to embraced the change rather than putting up resistance. Speaking on the topic “Elimination of Money woman” tradition and other harmful practices” in Obanlikwu LGA, Cross River State, the Paramount described “money woman” tradition as a marriage between adults with under age girls as the greatest evil that can ever happen to mankind, and called for an end to what he described as satanic and barbaric act. He called for formulation of policies /laws from the Council Legislatures in the LGA criminalising “money woman” tradition so that offenders of the law are made to face stiffer penalties. “How can someone betrothed his daughter to a friend just because of a morsel of yam ? Describing money woman marriage and other harmful traditional practices like gender based violent as barbaric and satanic act.
“With money woman tradition, a girl child becomes married even when she is still inside her mother’s womb. “In that circumstance a friend can easily get married to his friend’s daughter because her father borrowed cash from him”, stressing that in circumstances, the girl would be compelled to marry his fathers friend even when she has no love for her fathers friend denying the girl opportunity to academic pursuit. In his remarks, Executive Director, Centre for Leadership, Strategy and Development ( Centre LSD) , Monday Osaseh, stressed that the Male Engagement Program for reduction of Sexual/ Gender Based Violence and Harmful Practices funded by the EU-UN Spotlight Initiative is organized to carry advocacy against underage girls marriage which has caused pain to many girls. He said that following pronouncement by Paramount Ruler of Obanlikwu LGA and clan head of Becheve kingdom in Cross River State, abolishing customs that are inimical to women and girls in the area during a capacity building session this year, the community have agreed to abolished harmful practices. Also speaking, is the chairman Christian Association of Nigeria CAN, Obanlikwu LGA Rev. Akasin Joseph thanked the clergy for contributing their quota towards the success of putting an end to the harmful practice and called on all clergies to sustain fight against the resurgence of the harmful practice of giving out under age girls for marriage instead of sending them to school.
The CAN chairman advocates for stiffer penalty for parents who make attempt to reverse the trend.