By Anthony Ada Abraham, The evening featured ROG Music Africa’s Executive A&R, Motolani Awokoya famously called Moti Cakes as he laid forth his vision for what he now calls “the future of Radio,” at an event themed “Music Week Nigeria”. Moti Cakes sits on board of directors and serves as Head, A&R at the streaming company as well as CEO of ROG Radio Africa. Moti Cakes started his career working with Chocolate City Record Label as an intern after Graduating from the University of Miami business programme. He subsequently became a producer/Music A&R during the process of producing and featuring on M I Abaga’s 3rd Studio album. According to him, “I felt like after working on such a creative masterpiece, I needed to do more to make sure everyone heard it, people overseas, people stuck in traffic needed to hear this music, that’s when I decided I wanted to become a Radio producer”. After a successful chart topping  run on MI Abaga’s lead single “Bad Belle feat Moti Cakes”,  Motolani Awokoya launched the online radio platform called ROG Music Africa to further promote the critically acclaimed album and other projects he was working on the time.  During this process he landed a lucrative radio producer contract at media powerhouse Sound City radio. DJ Moti Cakes currently hosts the biggest daily mix show in West Africa with  syndicated shows on the Sound City radio Network broadcasting in 5 different states across Nigeria. Cakes opined that because “the new normal is social distancing” music lovers are being redirected to streaming services now more than ever for all their daily consumption of media and radio programming. “Online radio cuts through a lot of common setbacks of terrestrial radio” and with the world now getting used to ordering food and shopping online due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Online streaming and programming will continue to increase in popularity and engagement” Moti Cakes added. Experts have concluded that online programming is building momentum providing new ways of accessing information and entertainment content. Unlike broadcast radio which is traditionally audio only, online programming can be interactive , include video content as well as provide detailed demographic data about the listeners visiting the platform. “Evolution doesn’t come without setbacks and restraint”, as he refers to some  of the bigger issues slowing down the progress of online programming, including the fact that you might have to pay for your data consumption to access the internet on-the-move. This  makes online streaming less attractive in general, to this Moti Cakes opined that “for this potential to be realized, telecoms need to step up and re invest in the right services, whether the big telecoms are aware or not, the modernized world is moving towards free data for all, with future revenues coming from online advertising”. Internet radio allows stations to generate revenue through graphic advertising banners and pop-up ads as well. The “banner ad” is an easy and effective way to display advertising on a station’s website. Stations charge different amounts, depending on banner size, placement, and duration on a page. Moti Cakes believe in the future African labels will eventually sign agreements that make their content available on-demand, “free data will lead to even more record breaking profits for telecom companies and other segments of the economy including online retailing and more lucrative music streaming profits”. 