The federal government has opened all airports in the country but placed a six months travel ban on Nigerian passengers, who arrived the country and dodge the mandatory second COVID-19 test. The PTF coordinator, Dr Sani Aliyu, while speaking at the daily briefing on COVID-19, also revealed that foreigners, who failed to carryout the second COVID-19 test, would have their visas revoked while leaving the country. The coordinator also stated that over 9000 passengers have registered with the new hub, while over 5,000 have actually made payments through the hub, which is an indication that the hub is working well. He also explained that young children would be excluded from COVID-19 test, even as he noted that those with diplomatic passports would also be excluded. This is even as the PTF revealed that all government-operated airports in the country are now open for operations. The minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika while speaking at the briefing, explained that other private operated airports are to reopen after  meeting the required measures against COVID-19 and clearance from Nigeria Civil Aviation Agency, NCAA. The minister also stated that talks are going on to reopen Nigeria airspace to some of the banned airlines and countries. Also, the secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha, disclosed that Africa is flattening the curve of the COVID -19 pandemic. Mustapha disclosed this yesterday during the briefing of the Presidential Task Force on Covid -19 in Abuja. According to him , “A careful study of the numbers coming out of  Africa will reveal that there is a flattening of the curve in the  African region. There has been a weekly decline in the number of new  COVID-19 cases reported since the 20th July. Fatalities are also on a downward trend.  More than one million people  have recovered. While this is a welcome development, as we’ve seen  from other regions of the world that cases can decline only to start rising again. “A rapid survey by WHO revealed that 41 countries in sub-Saharan  Africa have reported disruptions to such services. It is of great concern to find that just when people with hypertension  and other chronic conditions need support the most, many are being  left out in the cold. “The PTF therefore urges the various medical facilities not to neglect patients with other conditions on account of COVID-19,” he said.