The former lady captain of the prestigious Ibadan Golf Club (IGC), Dr Temitope Farombi has highlighted the many benefits derived by sports men and women especially golfers from a new mobile application tagged ‘Ohealth’. The neurologist, who is a consultant with University College Hospital (UCH) clarified this while engaging golfers during a health talk as part of the programmes designed to mark the farewell of the immediate past Captain of IGC, Col Ade Sunmonu over the weekend. Farombi, who said she cannot do without playing golf despite the cumbersome nature of her job, urged fellow golfers to embrace the new normal after the pandemic outbreak and tap into big opportunities abound in Information technology. The medical practitioner claimed to indulge in golfing whenever she is under intense pressure, as it relaxes her mind, saying one cannot think of any other thing but the game while playing.
“It isn’t just playing the game that can reduce stress and anxiety, but simply walking across a beautiful golf course can alleviate negative thoughts and feelings,” she said. She reiterated that Ohealth, which is her brainchild, is an online application that bridges the gap between doctors and patients after discovering that people having difficulties in contacting their physicians and health is becoming more expensive. “The essence is to bridge this gap between the doctor and the patient such that if you need instant medical advice or consultation, you can do it at the comfort of your home or anywhere which includes a golf course for a token on your phone.” “The pandemic actually widened the need for this because lots of people find it difficult going out to see doctors due to restrictions, so with this kind of facilities, they can easily reach their physician. We even have surgeons readily available on the app and they can book to see them without going out.” While explaining why the mobile app is important for golfers, she added. “Let’s assume a golfer is playing and something happened on the course, you can instantly reach a doctor right on the course via your phone to give you a first aid before going to the hospital.”