The over 10 years war against terrorism and insurgency may be coming to an end. This is cheery news following the Military’s declaration that it is carrying out a final offensive to rout Boko Haram terrorists once and for all. The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, recently charged the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD) to go all out on final showdown with the Boko Haram terrorists. Buratai gave the charge in his message to the officers and men of OPLD on the Final Clearance of Boko Haram and ISWAP terrorists recently in Ngamdu, Borno. According to him, “we are right here right now to carry out our solemn and righteous constitutional duties. We are here to flush out these criminals who have been terrorizing and killing innocent and law abiding Nigerians! “Officers and men of the Nigerian Army owe it a duty to save our country from the menace of terrorists, bandits and all forms of criminalities. We owe it a duty to the Nigerian people and to President Muhammadu Buhari, for the confidence he has reposed in us to achieve the mandate the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria has given us. It is also instructive to note that Buratai, and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, had since relocated to the North -east in the final push against Boko Haram . On his part, Buratai has vowed to remain in the North-east to coordinate the war and has also promised to capture the leader of Boko Haram, Abubakar Shekau. The renewed optimism to obliterate the insurgent group once and for all was premised on the renewed onslaught earlier against the group by Chadian soldiers .To be sure, the offensive by  the Chadian military operation codenamed “Operation Wrath of Bomo,” came after Boko Haram had killed over 90 soldiers. The onslaught, according to reports took place at Kelkoua bank and Magumeri where the army destroyed several Boko Haram bunkers, recovered cache of arms and arrested a top Boko Haram commander. Five days later, April 4, Chadian President, Idriss Derby announced that Boko Haram had been completely removed from Chadian territory. Derby disclosed that Shekau, had narrowly escaped in the town of Dikoa. He goes on to advise Shekau to surrender or be killed inside his Dikoa hideout. In the opinion of this Newspaper, it’s time to decimate Boko Haram insurgents completely without looking back in view of the havoc they have wrecked on Nigeria. According to reports, Boko Haram fighters usually flee to Chad or Niger after being bombarded by the gallant Nigerian armed forces. Now that they have nowhere to run to, it’s time to make Boko Haram history. We note that since Boko Haram started their orgy of violence and killings in 2009, the North East in particular and Nigeria in general have not known peace. According to reports, in the last 10 years since the group chose the path of bloodbath, over 100,000 Nigerians have been killed while over 2.5 million have been displaced. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has also disclosed that the number of displaced children in the Boko Haram ravaged North -east region is 1.4 million. Also, the Federal Government, United Nations, European Union and World Bank are in agreement that an estimated $9 billion would be required for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged infrastructure in the six North-East states of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Taraba and Yobe. Regrettably the nefarious group in 2015, pledged its allegiance to the Islamic State and to its leader, Abu Baker al-Baghdadi. The consequence is that Boko Haram had continued to draw inspiration and other forms of encouragements from the globally acclaimed vicious terrorist organisation. This Newspaper was delighted with reports that the Nigerian Army said it killed no fewer than 105 insurgents in last Saturday’s confrontation at Buni Gari village in Gujba Local Government Area of Yobe State. Accordingly, we stand with our brave armed forces as they carry out this national assignment. We also posit that the insurgents are no match to a combined Army and Air Force operations. The battle against Boko Haram is winnable. Never should a small group of people hold the whole country to ransom again. We call on the military not to retreat or surrender in this latest onslaught till Shekau is captured and Boko Haram is finally decimated and confined to the dustbin of history.