….Says we’ll hand them over to private firm on contract The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said that it will no longer be involved in the management of the nation’s refineries after their rehabilitation. This was announced yesterday by the NNPC’s group managing director, Mallam Mele Kyari, during an interview on Arise TV breakfast programme, The Morning Show. Kyari said that upon completion of the ongoing rehabilitation of the refineries, the services of a company world be procured to manage them on an “Operation and Maintenance (O&M) basis.” “We are going to get an O&M contract, NNPC won’t run them. We are going to get a firm that will guarantee that these plants would run for some time. We want to try a different model of getting these refineries to run. And we are going to apply this process for the running of the refineries,” he stated. He explained that the plan, ultimately, is to get private partners to invest in the refineries and get them to run on the NLNG model where the shareholders would be free to decide the fate of the refineries going forward. Kyari stated that this model, which is totally different from previous approach, would guarantee the desired outcome for the refineries. While also featuring yesterday on a Channels TV breakfast talkshow, Sunrise Daily, the NNPC’s boss said that the decision to end the fuel subsidy regime is in the interest of ordinary Nigerians as it will free up funds for the various tiers of government to develop basic infrastructure in the education, health, transport, and other sectors for their benefit. He said: “Subsidy is elitist because it is the elite that benefit from it. They are the ones that have SUVs, four, five cars in their garages. The masses should be the ones to benefit. There are many things wrong with under-recovery because it makes us to supply more than is needed. This makes the under-recovery to be bloated because we unwittingly subsidise fuel for the whole of West Africa. That has to stop,” Kyari stated. He further explained that the removal of subsidy would automatically correct the distortions it created in the market such as product arbitrage and smuggling, stressing that it would also provide the impetus for the NNPC to establish retail outlets in neighbouring countries. On agitations in some quarters for a reduction in the price of kerosene, Kyari said that the corporation’s focus was rather on how to migrate all those who were still using kerosene for domestic cooking to the use of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), which is popularly referred to as cooking gas. According to him, apart from LPG being a cheaper fuel than kerosene, it is also safer and more environment-friendly. He said that the minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, was championing policies to deepen the adoption of LPG for domestic consumption, adding that widespread adoption of LPG usage was the best solution to kerosene supply challenges in the long-term. On the situation with global crude oil price and supply, the NNPC GMD said things were shaping up. Kyari said: “Crude oil price is improving by the day. Last week, it was $15 per barrel. Today, it is $32.79 per barrel. We believe the ongoing engagements between global oil producers will bring back demand and once that happens, the market will balance and fully recover by year-end.” On the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, Kyari, who put the current total donations by players in the oil and gas Industry at N21 billion, said that the sector was obliged to support the federal government in its efforts to bring relief to Nigerians. He maintained that the donations were in kind and were designed to address three key areas: provision of hospital consumables (face masks, test kits, etc.); provision of support services and facilities for patients (beds, ventilators); and provision and upgrade of health infrastructure that will outlive the COVID-19 pandemic.