Residents of Maiduguri, the Borno State capital were yesterday  thrown into confusion and panic as a nurse working with the Medicine Sans Frontiers (MSF) reportedly died of coronavirus. The deceased identified as Babangida Buba Gombe, a retired anaesthetic nurse with the Borno State Hospital Management Board (HMB), who later joined MSF Pulka, allegedly died at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) on Saturday. A report on his death from the UMTH said: “There was a confirmed case of COVID-19 at UMTH. A retired anaesthetic nurse working with MSF in Pulka town of Gwoza local government area. The bad thing is that he has had contact with several health workers both within and outside UMTH (being a health worker). He was brought from Pulka to UMTH by two nurses who are also now at risk (together with their families). “This evening after his demise, family friends, relatives and other mourners gathered in his house leading to having contact with his family who have been having direct contact with him since he was brought from Pulka (during his two days’ admission). “And the worst of all is that he is staying in Umaru Shehu Modern Hospital (USUMH) staff quarters, which is within the hospital premises thereby exposing more health workers and patients as well. “Please be careful of social gatherings within Maiduguri at the moment,” the report reads. Another source from the MSF on the condition of anonymity,  said the late nurse was managed as a case of pneumonia, with history of having had  similar illness some years ago and even admitted then in ICU for respiratory difficulties. “So because of that I guess they were not on high alert, especially with no travel history and contact with infected persons, and coming from a rural area”, the source said. Also, one of the nurses on duty at the UMTH when the  deceased nurse was admitted said their exposure to the patient who is  now suspected of passing on as a result of coronavirus virus is now a source of worry. The nurse who spoke on the condition of anonymity said when they reported to duty the following day, the hospital management asked them to wait and drop their test before leaving. Meanwhile, reacting to the reported case of COVID-19 in the state, the chairman, Borno State COVID-19 Response Team and the deputy governor of Borno State, Alhaji Usman Kadafur, said the sample of the deceased has been taken and the result communicated to the National Centre For Disease Control (NCDC) who would announce the result.  “You know the NCDC are the people mandated to make a statement on that. As a committee, we are still working and reviewing things in the town.  So for now, I assure you, if there is any outcome of the NCDC report, we will make it public as soon as possible. We have a patient who has passed away.  That patient has been tested, but the result is with NCDC so that they will now come out with official statement.”  