The Edo State Government has appealed to residents to support the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration’s efforts at curtailing the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) by complying with all guidelines of the government including the stay-at-home and social distancing directives. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who made the plea while speaking to journalists in Benin City, decried the level of compliance among residents, noting that the neglect was responsible for the new cases recorded in the state. According to him, as the state government steps up efforts to curtail the spread of the virus, residents must complement the efforts of the government by complying with the guidelines and other basic precautionary measures to stop further spread of the infectious disease. The commissioner disclosed that while there are 63 suspected cases, 97 persons of interest (POIs) and over 250 contacts, the state has recorded 11 confirmed cases spread across four Local Government Areas of Edo, including Oredo, Esan West, Egor and Ovia North East. He explained that Oredo LGA has four cases, Esan West with two, while Egor and Ovia North East LGAs have two and one respectively. Okundia said the suspected cases are spread across Oredo (28), Esan West (11), Egor (5), Esan Central (6), Ikpoba-Okha (5), Esan North East (3), Etsako West (2), Ovia North East (2), Owan West (1). According to him, “On behalf of the Edo State Government, I am once again appealing to you all my fellow citizens to support this administration as we combat this common enemy. As a government we are fully ready to handle confirmed cases recorded in our state but we know that the best way to fight this is prevention. “To achieve this, we have set out guidelines to ensure that the people are safe and healthy, including the closure of schools and markets except those trading on food and pharmaceuticals, stay-at-home order for civil servants below grade level 12, strict guidelines to transporters and hoteliers, among others. This is because we know that this virus doesn’t move by itself but is moved by people. We urge you dear good people of Edo State to help us to keep you safe by staying at home.” He added, “If it becomes necessary that you must go out, ensure to observe social distancing guidelines. Wash your hands regularly with soap under running water and use alcohol-based hand sanitisers, cover the mouth and nose properly with a handkerchief or tissue paper when sneezing and/or coughing. Also do well to report anyone with oversea travel history. This has become imperative as we have witnessed recent increase of confirmed cases in quite a short while, which is attributable to the negligence of these orders, especially the stay-at home order.”