…As Flurry Of Petitions Worry Group The Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has warned the people of the Niger Delta region, especially those in Rivers and Bayelsa States, of the activities of scammers offering non-existent agricultural cooperative loans. This is as a non-governmental organization, Citizens Quest For Truth Initiative, has expressed worry over flurry of petitions and allegations of widespread fraud against the interim management committee (IMC) of the NDDC, especially as it concerns the recent N4Billion contract for Lassa Fever and maternal kits, amongst others. The NDDC, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt by the Director of Corporate Affairs, Charles Obi Odili, said the scammers, who claim to be representing officials of the Agriculture and Fisheries Directorate of the Commission, go to the length of demanding signed blank cheques from their victims. The statement reads in part: “The Management of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), is compelled to alert members of the public, especially those in Bayelsa and Rivers states, of the activities of scammers offering non-existent Agricultural Cooperative loans. “We have received several reports from some victims in Bayelsa State who were deceived into believing that the NDDC was currently running an Agricultural Loan Scheme for which they are being asked to pay six thousand naira as processing fees for the loans. “These criminals, who claim to be representing officials of the Agriculture and Fisheries Directorate of the NDDC, go to the length of demanding signed blank cheques from their victims. “The scammers must have taken advantage of the promise made by the NDDC Acting Managing Director, Professor Kemebradikumo Pondei, to promote agriculture in the Niger Delta region. While the NDDC is still working out the details of the agricultural programme, scammers have gone to town to dupe some members of the public. “We advise those who have genuine businesses with the NDDC to always cross-check their information at the Commission’s official website and other social media handles.” Meanwhile, a non-governmental organization, Citizens Quest For Truth Initiative, has expressed concern over the alleged alleged N4Billion contract for Covid-19 personal protective equipments (PPEs), which the NDDC had already disowned. The group, in a statement signed by Chief Oby Christie Ndukwe and Francis Ndimkoha, National President and
National Publicity Secretary, respectively, said it is determined to verify the veracity of the spurious claims, allegations and counter allegations rocking the Commission. The statement reads in part: “The attention of Citizens Quest For Truth Initiative has been drawn to what is almost becoming a constant in the Niger Delta Development Commission which includes a flurry of petitions and allegations of widespread fraud especially as it concerns the recent N4Bn (Four Billion Naira) contract for Lassa Fever and maternal kits amongst others. “Again, Citizens Quest is concerned about the alleged N5Bn (Five Billion Naira) contract for Covid-19 Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs), which the Commission had disowned in a Press Release of 25th April, 2020 where the Head of Corporate Affairs, Charles Odili stated that no such contract has been awarded. “As a Non Governmental Organization which has been in the forefront of the campaign for good governance as well as accurate reportage of issues, we are determined to verify the veracity of the spurious claims, allegations and counter allegations rocking the Commission for a long time now. “We are not bound to believe these petitions by unregulated and unregistered bodies neither are we interested in slanting the truth to suit anybody’s whims and caprice.”