The death of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Chief of Staff, Malam Abba Kyari, has thrown illumination into the power corridors and how the man with the red cap was friend to many people across political and ethnic divide. Against popular belief that is often erroneous, many Nigerians are becoming increasingly aware that in the face of negative traits that were often associated with the man whom many believed was the alter ego of a reclusive president, Malam Abba was “most sinned against than sinning.” Since the demise of Kyari, many Nigerians have taken the pains to recall their moments and times with the Chief of Staff. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema, recently jolted many Nigerians when he disclosed that Kyari was his best man during his wedding in the 1970s. For those whose paths never crossed with the top presidency aide, Kyari was most portrayed as hater of Christians who was responsible for the failures of the Buhari’s government. If there was any tribute that shook the tables and attracted ripples across the land, it was the requiem by Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, former Minister of Aviation and acerbic critic of the Buhari’s administration. In his tribute on the man he calls his friend and brother, the man whose criticisms against the present government has turned him into a symbol of opposition, revealed how closed he was to Kyari for over 40 years. Despite differences in politics and religion, the relationship between the duo remained cordial. For many, contemplating a sizzling warm rapport between Fani-Kayode and Kyari was simply a wishful thinking. When the former minister finally came out to confirm of a warm relationship, all hell was let loose. Dr Bolaji Akinyemi, writing on the title, ‘Femi Fani-Kayode: The Spy Who Fooled Us’, unleashed his venom on Fani-Kayode over his requiem on Kyari who was seen by faultfinders as the public enemy of the Nigerian people. Reading through the piece, it was obvious that Akinyemi could have seized an opportunity to hold on the jugular of the former minister to settle some scores. In inference, Bolaji expected Fani-Kayode, going by his regular criticisms against the administration of President Buhari not to have anything to do with anyone serving in the present administration. For daring to do that, Bolaji accused Fani-Kayode of not only being a spy enjoying the best of two worlds, but a double agent who hunted with the hound and ran with the hare. More despicable and without any proof or any shred of any evidence, Bolaji alleged that FFK was not only a beneficiary of Kyari’s benevolence, but was only engaged in mouthing against Islamisation agenda to justify a double-faced disposition for pecuniary interest. Reacting to criticism on FFK’s tribute, Rev Emmanuel Olorunmagba dismissed Akinyemi’s diatribes, and further alleged that FFK’s accuser “must be seriously working for some paymasters who want to provoke FFK to become silence like others. A man that has done so much for Nigerians, especially the people from the south and an unknown miscreant suddenly rose up to turn start attacking and some people join his to repay FFK, evil for his good.” From the attack on Fani-Kayode and the reaction of Rev Olorunmagba, the intense animosity over the Kyari’s requiem may not find a quick resolution. If FFK’s bitter criticisms have assisted in checkmating the excesses of government in a democracy, could any relationship between the critic and Kyari be seen as an act of betrayal? If indeed, FFK was benefitting from his relationship with the late Chief of Staff, why was it possible for Fani-Kayode to continue his caustic criticisms against the government without let or hindrance? It becomes unrealistic for FFK to feed fat from a man whose duty was to protect the Buhari Presidency and at the same time be engaged in fighting the fingers that fed him. I have known Fani-Kayode for nearly two decades and was never shocked when he disclosed his closeness with Kyari. But for those who have never known the other side of FFK who is the undisputed chief bashing officer of the demonstrated failures of the Buhari’s administration, his tribute on Kyari is consistent with his trait and character as a true Nigerian. For those who lampooned the fearless FFK for identifying with Kyari, they have been oblivious of what he stands for: He is one Nigerian whose heart is always open for those genuinely concerned with issues that engender equity and justice for all Nigerian citizens. Having enjoyed the peace and brotherhood of the indomitable Nigerian spirit and her its potential greatness. His advocacy for an egalitarian society cuts across ethnicity and religion. Despite his constant accusation against the government’s ploy to Islamise Nigeria, Fani-Kayode’s love is first for the country and then the people. When he rails against the injustice directed against the people; he invariably sounds a wake-up call on the leadership of the nation to beware of the stumbling blocks ahead. Despite denials issues raised by FFK, present status in federal appointments clearly shows that Christians are not only denied their fair share, killings in Christian dominated areas and neglect are troubling signs for believers of the Bible. Considering the indelible footprints FFK has left on the sands of advocacy for a better Nigeria, the accusation leveled against him of playing a double-face cannot stand. If indeed it is true that he was feeding fat on Kyari whom we now know was the sacrificial lamb for Buhari’s missteps, the fire of his criticisms against the government would have turned into ashes by now.  If indeed FFK had played Judas while romancing with the enemy, his many enemies in the corridors of power would have waited too long to expose him as a caricature in wolves’ clothing. For those who assume that FFK should cut off his relationship with a friend of over 40 years because they belong to opposing sides in the political divide are really unfair to him. Such an advice is pure foolishness. As Fani-Kayode noted in that inspiring tribute, his relationship with Kyari was akin to that of Jonathan and David.  Haters of Fani-Kayode should by now understand his constant attacks on Buhari and the government is not out of hatred but to draw the attention of government to do the needful. Inspite of the failings of governments, there are patriots working inside and helping to shape opinions and taming the hawks whose major purpose is to crush the opposition. Without further persuasion, I am convinced that Akinyemi’s intention is to disrepute the character of FFK and portray him as a critic who screams in the day and grovel before powers in the night for favours. That is not the FFK that I have known for nearly 20 years.  As someone whom I have known for such length of time, I can testify that Fani-Kayode is not a cheap character that can betray the cause he has been noted for. Besides demonstrating an unprecedented faith for the dawn of a new Nigeria, he believes that only a unity of purpose founded on justice can avert the incoming doom staring at our nation. More than anything, we need more people like Fani-Kayode who can criticise government and at the same time relate with those in corridors of power to understand the dynamics of power and work towards a common ground in a nation enmeshed in negative partisanship. Those who hate and disparage FFK only do that because they are carrying a job. Attempting to silence FFK and creating a rippling incredulity on what he stands can never reduce his patriotic worth..