Lafarge Africa Plc, has announced donations to support Nigeria’s capacity to combat the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Lafarge Africa is providing the use of three of its facilities in its host states for use as isolation centres during the pandemic.  In addition, the company is donating equipment for facilities, product donations for infrastructural support including generators, ambulances and critical personal protection equipment (PPE) for professionals at the forefront of the battle against the Coronavirus pandemic. In addition, interventions that support water sanitation and hygiene (WASH) initiatives have been enabled for the host communities. Furthermore, the company’s host community engagements and sensitization programmes on COVID-19 have so far directly impacted thousands of people at the grass roots level. The CCEO of Lafarge Africa, Mr Khaled El Dokani said, “Our intervention will be used to support healthcare facilities in Lagos and in our host communities. Infrastructure and kits to protect the healthcare personnel and support staff who take care of patients are very important to ensure that our compatriots fighting to help contain COVID-19 do the job professionally and safely. “The personal protection equipment we are providing will also play an important role in containing the spread of COVID-19. Our communities have been standing by us over the years in making building materials for the development of Nigeria. We are committed to standing by them and with the Nigerian Government and people in defeating COVID-19.” Lafarge Africa has built and equipped health centres across its host communities and operates a modern healthcare facility in Ashakacem, Gombe State which is fully accessible to community members. Staff at the facility have undergone training in identifying and reporting the symptoms of Covid-19, while the Covid-19 pandemic is an unforeseen emergency, the longstanding commitment to high standards of safety and welfare of staff and stakeholders has enabled the company to quickly rise to the challenge of curtailing the spread of the virus. El-Dokani further stated, “Beyond the strict safety measures we have put in place across our offices and plants, including adopting remote working, and the donation of personal protection equipment, we have also supported the fight against Covid-19 through public communications on preventive measures. “Lafarge Africa will continue to be a leading voice in advocating safe practices in our host communities and the nation at large. We are all working together to defeat this pandemic.” Director of Communications, Public Affairs and Sustainable Development of the Company, Folashade Ambrose-Medebem, stated that “Lafarge Africa’s intervention to support the containment of Covid-19 in Nigeria is in line with the Lafarge Holdings Group’s core values which guide its operations in over 90 countries.