The secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha has explained reasons why Covid-19 cases are increasing in Nigeria. He stated this during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) in Abuja . He attributed the increase to the expansion of the testing capacity and activities as well as evidence that community spread is taking place. He stated”  as we are gradually moving towards the end of week four of the lockdown for the Lagos, Ogun as well as FCT, the PTF has intensified it’s all round assessment of the impact on the stated objectives, the state of readiness and next steps to take.  As we speak, the DG, NCDC and WHO representative are expected back in Abuja later today with their reports. “The PTF notes that the number of cases has risen generally. This is attributable to expansion of our testing capacity and activities as well as evidence that community spread is taking place. “Considering the dynamic nature of the response plan, the strategy for testing has been modified and door-to-door testing is now taking place in some communities in Lagos and Abuja. Testing, detection, isolation, care and case management remain central to our success in this fight. The SGF also expressed concern over the rising cases of the pandemic in Kano. “The situation in Kano continues to be of concern, and the PTF is working in close contact with the State Government to arrest the situation. The PTF will update you as soon as there are new developments,” he added. He also reminded Nigerians that this pandemic is real and its spreading like wide fire. “We must all arise to fight this potent and invisible common enemy by adhering to the guidelines and protocols for COVID-19, which includes personal hygiene, social distancing, wear of masks in public places, obeying the stay-at-home order and reporting unusual illness to the authorities for investigation. On the upcoming Ramadan, he said “It is anticipated that by Friday 24th, the Ramadan shall commence. I want to use this medium to thank His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto and President General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs for endorsing the recommendations of the Emergency Fatwah Committee by issuing a statement guiding the conduct of the Ummah during the Ramadan. “The statement has directed the Ummah on the suspension of obligatory religious activities such as Jumaat, congregational and other sessions during the month of Ramadan to prevent the spread of COVID 19. “It similarly encouraged scholars and organisations to use all other means of communication and broadcast to disseminate information and conduct programmes. “Our Prayer is that the Almighty shall accept our collective supplication and show mercy. He also commended the application of these directives in the states and implore all state Governors to please consider these directives before taking further decisions. “I am pleased to inform you that as a show of magnanimity and concern for all categories of employees, Mr. President has approved the immediate payment of the withheld February and March 2020 salaries of lecturers not registered on the IPPIS platform. He said the payment is to cushion the deleterious effects of the COVID-19 period on the lecturers and members of their families. He , However, said  all Vice Chancellors are to revalidate the BVN of the affected lecturers before the Accountant General of the Federation can carry out the payments. “The PTF remains committed to leading the fight against COVID-19 and crave your support, understanding and cooperation,” he added.