Imo State Ministry of Transport says it is weighing the option of institutionalizing a one-shop  automated system for motor administration and documentation in the state. The Commissioner for Transport, Barr. Rex Anunobi, who dropped the hint in a meeting with the management of Oliswarren Group in his office, said his ministry will not hesitate to entrench an administrative framework that will drive the Shared Prosperity vision of Senator Hope Uzodinma in the transport sector. The Commissioner explained that such modern initiative has become expedient considering the need to ease motor administration and licensing under an integrated database and documentation, which he added will drive the ministry’s planning and revenue projections for an enhanced revenue and security. Barr. Anunobi maintained that the current system is not helping the state government maximize its revenue potentials in the transport sector as it currently delivers about 25% compliance, which he described as a far cry from what the State ought to generate if the system is sanitized, automated and run on a cashless order. The Commissioner further explained that the ministry of Transport under his watch will review and develop an integrated and automated frameworks that will drive some of its revenue sub-heads to enable the State government generate Internally Generated Revenue from the transport sector amid the dwindling allocation accruing from the federation account. Earlier in his presentation, the Managing Director of Oliswarren Group, Mr. Olisa Aniunoh, expressed the willingness of his company to partner with the Ministry of Transport towards institutionalizing a system that will automate and sanitize motor administration and documentation in the state. According to him, the ‘Imo State Integrated Automated Central System of Motor Administration and Documentation’ proposed to be domiciled in the Ministry of Transport will not attract any cost from the state government hence it will run on Public Private Partnership (PPP). He explained that the automated system which is presently replicated in some states will create an accurate database, deliver infrastructural development, help government plan adequately in security and most importantly deliver about N350m monthly to government as a revenue. Those present at the meeting include the Permanent Secretary, Mrs Ngozi Izunobi, and Directors in the ministry, Nze Franklin Iwunze(Ogbuagu Nkwerre), SA Monitoring, Implementation and Enforcement, Hon. Steve Agbarakwe,  SA Technical and Mr. Ebere Uzoukwa, SA Media/Special Projects to the Honourable Commissioner of Transport.