There was a mild drama Sunday at Amike-Abba in Ebonyi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State as the Pastor in charge of a Pentecostal church located inside a school building and its members took to their heels on sighting members of the COVID-19 taskforce team. The taskforce team had stormed the church on a tip off that the Pastor was holding Sunday Church Service against the ban by the State government to prevent the spread of coronavirus in the state. LEADERSHIP observed that immediately the Taskforce team stormed the venue and gained access into the school premises where the church was being held, both the Pastor, the wife and other members of the church numbering over 30 took to their heels to escaped arrest. The Taskforce team having ensured that no member of the church was still present locked the premises and directed that such Sunday Church Service must not be held in the church again until a further directive lifting the ban. Similar, the COVID-19 Taskforce on ban of Religious activities, Burial, weddings and other social gathering in Afikpo North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State has arrested the Pastor of Dynamic Faith Church for allegedly conducting church services in deviance to the Ebonyi State Government order. The Taskforce led by the Technical Assistant to the State Governor, Hon Otu Unyanma said that though almost all the churches in the local government area was under lock and key when the Taskforce visited to monitor the level of compliance,  only the Pastor of Dynamic Faith Church violated the order. In a statement signed by the Technical Assistant to the Governor, Ho Unyanma and made available to LEADERSHIP said today the 26th of April 2020, the taskforce of Sunday worship, burials carried out the directive of the state governor on worship centers”. “Though all the churches in Afikpo North complied with the directive, it was only the Dynamic Faith church that disobeyed the directive. But the team and the security agent arrested the pastor of the church and ordered the members to vacate the church premises immediately which they complied”.  Confirming the arrest, the Afikpo North Council Chairman, Hon Ogbonnia Oko Enyim expressed disappointment the way and manner some churches in the state disobey government directive aimed at safeguarding the lives of the church members including that of the Pastor. He noted that just few days ago, a stakeholders meeting was convened at the council headquarters and it was unanimously agreed that all churches would still exercise little patient with the state government to ensure that the virus does not spread to the state being the only state in the South East zone that is yet to record any positive index case of COVID 19. According to him, “we have been working round the clock to ensure that Ebonyi does not record any case of the virus, there has been little lapses in some boundary area so we had to summon a stakeholders meeting”. “The meeting became very imperative due to the urgent need to take drastic measures that will deepen the fight against COVID-19 in Afikpo North LGA in particular and Ebonyi State at large since we share boundary with Abia State that just recoded an index case”. “I can tell you authoritatively that the Governor is not happy with the uncooperative attitude of some Ebonyians whose lackadaisical disposition makes our borders/boundary porous thereby frustrating the fight of COVID-19 in the State. Some churches are also not helping matters”. During the meeting we agreed that the ban on Religious activities would still continue but regrettably, the Pastor of Dynamic Faith Church violated the order just few days after the meeting. We are battling to tighten all loopholes by erecting checkpoints at strategic areas and engaging people who will serve as Task force”. “The Task force is to enforce Government directives in their respective Communities. Unfortunately while we are doing that, our effort is being frustrated by those who should be a shining example to others”. Hon Enyim said that he has communicated with the relevant authorities not to detain the Pastor but directed that he be warned to comply with the government’s directive to prevent further spread of coronavirus.