Five states of the federation have complied with the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari to decongest prisons across the country by releasing inmates, deserving national pardon. President Buhari  on Tuesday wrote a letter to the chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, to work with the chief judges of the states to ensure the release of inmates deserving pardon to decongest the prisons as the coronavirus pandemic rages. Consequently, Kebbi, Ondo, Nasarawa, Ekiti and Delta States yesterday freed some inmates that fitted into the federal government’s categories for potential beneficiaries. The Kebbi State government set free 111 of such inmates at Argungu and Birnin Kebbi new and old Correctional Centres. Addressing journalists on the development, the attorney-general and commissioner for justice, Ramatu Adamu Augie, said that their release followed the approval of Governor Abubakar Bagudu in-line with the federal government’s directive to decongest correctional centres nationwide in order to prevent the inmates from contracting coronavirus. The exercise will continue at other correctional centres in Yauri, Zuru, Jega and Bagudo local government areas of the state, she added.. A total of 115 inmates have also benefited from presidential order in Nasarawa State. The attorney-general and commissioner for justice, Dr. Abdulkarim Kana, who represented the governor at the event, urged the beneficiaries to find gainful things to do to contribute to building the country, Kana handed the sum of N5,000 to each of the 115 beneficiaries to enable them transport themselves to their respective homes According to him, ”this is in line with the directive of President Buhari and the presidential pardon granted to many inmates across the correctional centres in Nigeria.” In Ekiti State, Governor Kayode Fayemi ordered the release of 30 prisoners from the Ado-Ekiti Correctional Centre. The state is also considering the use of technology in facilitating the trial of criminal cases. The state attorney-general and commissioner for justice, Olawale Fapohunda, who disclosed this in Ado-Ekiti, said that the move was part of the measures to halt the spread of coronavirus in the state. The Ekiti State Advisory Council on Prerogative of Mercy, according to Fapohunda, had met on Wednesday, April 15, 2020 to consider applications for clemency from 45 prisoners in the Ado-Ekiti Correctional Centre. He said that the council recommended 30 inmates who fell within the category stated in the public notice published by the Ministry of Justice on Monday, 13th April, 2020 after their applications were considered on merit. The Delta State government has also released 25 convicts at the Kwale Custodian Centre to stem the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. The state chief judge, Justice Marshal Umukoro, told newsmen at the centre that the released convicts were those who had less than three years to serve their prison term. He said that the measure was to curtail the spread of COVID-19 into the facility. Justice Umukoro said that he would embark on regular visits to correctional centres later this year to address awaiting trial inmates and explained that those released fell into the category of terminally ill inmates, low risk offenders, some who ought not to be there and those who have less than three years to serve. Also, Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has ordered the release of 29 inmates from the prisons. This announcement was made by the chief press secretary to the governor, Segun Ajiboye. He explained that it was in the exercise of the power conferred on the governor by paragraph (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 212, of the Nigerian Constitution 1999 (as amended). The freed inmates were those who have served portions of their sentences after being duly sentenced to various terms of imprisonment. Akeredolu, according to the statement, believes that decongesting the correctional custodial centre will also help to prevent the spread of the COVID-19, not only amongst inmates but also the officials.  