Apparently wary of the negative effect the lingering lockdown imposed to curtail the spread of coronavirus in the country would have on Nigerians, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and state governors have implored the citizens to consider the restriction order as a sacrifice to defeat the global pandemic the same way Jesus gave his life to save the world. Osinbajo, while preaching during the Aso Villa Chapel Online Resurrection Sunday in commemoration of this year’s Easter, reminded Christians of the solemn sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross and its significance. Osinbajo in a message titled, “Criminals on the Cross’’, said that the account of the crucifixion of Christ was an extraordinary story. Citing Luke 23:32-34, 39-43, the vice president said that Christ paid the price for sins of the entire world, adding that even a condemned criminal made it with Jesus to Paradise. He pointed out that the crucifixion was an inspiring message of redemption, which is a succinct statement of what the good news is all about. The VP stated: “We want to bless the name of the Lord for a very wonderful day; the Lord God Almighty has given us a great opportunity to worship today in this resurrection. “And for all of you who are watching from home, I know that you are going to be specially blessed because this day, wherever you may be, is the most important day in the Christian faith. “It is the day we announce and affirm and reaffirm a very special day in the Christian calendar because it is the month of resurrection. The month that Jesus Christ rose from the dead and we are going to celebrate this day and keep celebrating because it is the evidence of our salvation; the evidence of our redemption”. On his part, Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, assured Christians in the state that the deadly COVID-19 will be defeated. Akeredolu, in his message on the occasion of this year‘s Easter celebration, asked the people to continue to pray without ceasing against the deadly COVID-19 Pandemic. A statement by his chief press secretary, Segun Ajiboye, quoted the governor as urging Christians to see the stay at home order as a sacrifice to contain the spread of the virus the same way Jesus gave his life to save the world. While assuring them that the virus will be defeated while the people sing a song of victory, Akeredolu asked the people to emulate the virtues and preaching of Jesus Christ as they celebrate Easter with moderation. The governor added that the people will bounce back stronger from the pains inflicted by COVID-19 with the resurrection of Christ. He noted that the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ is a strong message to the people that they will come out stronger after the defeat of the virus. Akeredolu enjoined the people of the state to join hands with the rest of the world to pray for health workers and others who are in the frontline of the battle against the Coronavirus. In Borno State, Governor Babagana Umara Zulum warmly felicitated with Christians in the state and beyond, just as he urged them to imbibe selfless sacrifices and renewal of hopes and convictions during the celebrations. In his message released by his spokesman, Malam Isa Gusau, the governor used the season to warn that notwithstanding the global focus on Covid-19 pandemic, Nigeria and the international community must never lose sight of the Boko Haram insurgency, which he said he saw as an older coronavirus he had earlier labelled “Covid-2009”. Zulum stated: „ While wishing all Christians a happy and memorable Easter, I share the pain, that the important Easter is being celebrated at a time Nigeria, like many parts of the world, is battling to contain a pandemic caused by coronavirus disease. „The Covid-19, first identified in December 2019 in Wuhan, the capital of China‘s Hubei province, has so far caused the deaths of nearly 104,000 persons around the world from which Nigeria recorded 7 in mortality. „Borno State government will remain relentless in fighting this dangerous and highly contagious disease through strict preventive and responsive measures. „In the midst of the fight against Covid-19 however, there is the risk of stakeholders in Nigeria and the international community, losing focus on the fight against Boko Haram, which to us in Nigeria, is an older ‘Covid-2009-coronavirus’. „Although the Boko Haram, under its initial identity as Taliban, launched its first attack back in October 2003 around Yobe state, the group gained notoriety in July 2009 and since then, no one knows the exact thousands of persons killed by this dangerous ’Covid-2009’. „The Boko Haram is equally contagious through the spread of violent ideologies and links with terror groups around the world. It is also contagious by creating permanent fear and agonies for millions of people. We cannot afford to be distracted. „We must be simultaneous and consistent in applying and sustaining tough measures against Covid-19 and ‘Covid-2009’. With their proven evil mindset, Boko Haram insurgents would expect us to be carried away with Covid-19, so they can exploit the situation to make Covid-2009 worse than it already is. We must never let this happen”. For his part, Ogun state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, called on residents and citizens of the state to put their hope in God in the face of then coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world. The governor, in his Easter message, also called on them to play their roles as true citizens through love and sacrifice for the general good of the society. He said the lockdown ordered by government to flatten the curve of the coronavirus is one sacrifice the people must make at this period to defeat the deadliest pandemic. The governor said it was only through love and sacrifice toward the good of society that the people could uphold the legacy of Jesus Christ which is encapsulated in His selfless love and sacrifice on behalf of humanity. Abiodun said, “The greatest legacy that Jesus Christ left for us is the legacy of love and sacrifice. I believe the best way we can carry on that legacy is to fulfill our obligations to our society.” The Governor urged all Nigerians to reflect on the measures put in place by government, both at federal and state levels, to contain the spread of the pandemic by avoiding high-density gatherings and by maintaining social distance as prescribed by medical professionals. “Easter”, the Governor further noted, “is a period when we engage in sober recollection of the ultimate and selfless sacrifice of love that Jesus Christ made on our behalf,” adding that society requires more expression of love to improve the quality of life  of the people. He stressed that the period calls for deep reflection on what the people’s roles and obligations should be to make the world a better place for posterity. In Gombe State, Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, while felicitating with the Christian community, called on Christians to use the period to pray for continuous peace, stability and end to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to Yahaya, although this year‘s Easter celebration is coming when the world is going through difficult times occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic, its consequential restrictions and economic downturn, the season provides an opportunity for unity of purpose, reinforcement of bond of brotherhood and dedication in service to God and humanity as exemplified by Jesus Christ. In a statement by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Ismaila Uba Misili, the governor noted that Easter symbolises love, sacrifice, service to God and country as well as triumph of good over evil. Urging the people to always reflect on the lessons and significance of the season and demonstrate same in their lives, Yahaya said, „On this occasion of Easter feast, I want to enjoin our Christian brothers and sisters in Gombe State and the world over to continue to promote peace and good neighbourliness. ”I want to also urge you to remain steadfast in prayers and continue to sacrifice for the good and advancement of our dear state. I also call on you to continue to pray fervently against the Covid -19 pandemic that is threatening humanity and its means of livelihood. „We are indeed in a trying moment but I am optimistic that with collective commitment, sacrifice and by turning to God through prayers we shall overcome the trial and emerge stronger“. On his part, the Oba of Benin, Omo N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Ewuare II, called on Christian leaders across the country to always practice what they preach to their congregations. The monarch, in a statement issued by the Secretary, Benin Traditional Council (BTC), Frank Irabor, also enjoined Christians “irrespective of domination to use this period of Easter to reflect on the teachings of Jesus Christ and endeavour to emulate Christ in their living”. He continued: “The Benin Monarch advises Christian leaders to do what they preach in order not to mislead their congregations. The Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, reminded Christians to extend hands of fellowship to the needy and the less privileged in the society. “While wishing Christians a Happy Easter celebration, His Royal Majesty, Ewuare II calls on Christians to fervently pray to God to forgive the sins of humanity and bring to an end the COVID-19 pandemic that is ravaging the world.” Also, the Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, felicitated with Christians worldwide on the celebration of 2020 Easter, marking the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Oluwo described this year‘s Easter as challenging due to the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus infection threatening the world. He tasked the populace, Christians, Muslims and traditionalists to repent holistically to avert further wrath of the infection. Oba Akanbi said heinous sins characterising human race were the foundation of the deadly virus, urging individual to turn a new leaf and take after examples laid by Jesus Christ. He said a sane world is achievable if majority could be as holy and transparent as Jesus Christ. The monarch further implored Christians to extend generosity to alleviate hardship that might accompany the lockdown order on the populace.  FG Opts For Digitalisation Of Cash Transfer The federal government has insisted on digitalisation of the Conditional Cash Transfer Programme, saying it is one of the top priorities of the ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development since its creation by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. The minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, who disclosed this during her visit to state governors for CCT programme and distribution of relief materials across the country, said digital pilot programme has been carried out in six states so far. “It is important to highlight that since the creation of the ministry, we have piloted digital payment in six states and part of the overhaul of the CCT program is transitioning to digital payments across all participating states. This is a priority and we are actively working to transform the mode of payment across all the states“, she said. The minister explained that the Conditional Cash Transfer program has so far distributed N20,000 each to 110,202 existing beneficiaries on the National Social Register in seven states, adding that payment will commence in 17 additional states. Lagos Discharges More 5 Patients Meanwhile, Lagos State government yesterday discharged five additional coronavirus patients from its isolation facilities at Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba, Lagos. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu,  who confirmed the discharge of the patients in a statement said four females, one male were discharged from the facility bringing the number of patients discharged so far in the state to 55. Sanwo-Olu noted that the patients had been certified cured by medical experts and tested negative twice consecutively for coronavirus. He said, “As we commemorate the sacrifice of Love this Easter, I bring to you more awesome news from our isolation facilities. Today, five more patients; four females, and one male have been discharged to reunite with their families and the society. “The patients were discharged having recovered fully and tested negative twice consecutively to #COVID19. With the newly discharged patients, we now have a total of 55 people that have been successfully managed for #COVID19 at our isolation facilities and discharged to the community. “This news, especially on this auspicious day, gives me joy and happiness and I am sure it does to you too, while we look forward to more great news from our effort to contain the pandemic. “Let‘s all continue to show love and sacrifice for the course of humanity. Stay at home, practice social distancing principle, observe highest possible personal and hand hygiene and report suspicion to appropriate persons.’’ He urged the residents to continue to make the little sacrifices for the greater good of the state.  IBB Cautions Against Blame Game Former military president, General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd), has called for synergy between federal and state governments in the fight against COVID-19, saying there should be no room for blame game. The former Nigerian leader, in a statement made available to Journalists yesterday in Minna, said the experience of worst hit countries like China, Taiwan, among others should afford Nigeria the lessons to tackle the pandemic. He said, „I wish to use this opportunity to commend governments both at states and federal levels on the efforts so far made towards managing the spread of COVID 19 in Nigeria. „Although the numbers keep rising, the situation is still being kept at manageable levels within the limits of our health care system. However, these gains need to be sustained with enforcement of appropriate and consistent social distancing prescription for effective prevention of further spread of the pandemic.“ „It is time for synergy between federal government efforts and that of states where majority of citizens live with attendant implications for flattening the curve, increasing testing capacity and reducing the pains and we have the lesson and experiences of China, Taiwan and other countries to benefit from. „There is no room for blame game now but concerted support by all Nigerians and I commend with due regards to the professional display and wonderful efforts of our frontline medical personnel for their patriotism, resilience, sacrifice and commitment to this fight of eradicating COVID-19.“ While saluting the courage of individuals, groups and corporate entities for supporting governments at various levels, he commended government officials for various palliatives geared towards alleviating the excruciating pains associated with the lockdown. Babangida enjoined Christians to use the holy period of Easter to pray for the country in the COVID-19 pandemic situation, even as he urged Muslims to equally use the month preceding the holy month of Ramadan to pray fervently for Allah’s mercy and reprieve in the pandemic circumstances. He said everybody had roles to play collectively by observing all recommendations of NCDC and adhere strictly to directives of government on basic hygiene The former leader said, „Wash your hands frequently with soap under running water, avoid touching your face & high-contact surfaces and also avoiding gatherings & physical contact thus Practice social distancing  to prevent spread of the COVID 19.“  2 Foreigners Arrested, 269 Vehicles Impounded Over Breach Of Lockdown Order Meanwhile, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) Enforcement Team yesterday confirmed the arrest of a cleric, a Turkish and an Angolan for violating the presidential lockdown directive in the FCT aimed at curtailing the spread of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in Abuja. Ikharo Attah, chairman of the FCTA enforcement team on movement restrictions, in a statement, said that the team also impounded no fewer than 269 vehicles for violating the presidential stay-at-home order. He3 noted: “We got to Area one Roundabout, where a particular man was arrested with four military caps, he put one Army cap in his boot, then another one for Nigeria Air force and two other ones for Nigeria Navy, all in one vehicle. We arrested and handed him over to the FCT Commissioner of Police. “Then we also had another case of a man whose vehicle was taken to VIO office in Area one and immediately, he decided to strip himself naked, removed all his cloths in protest that he must work, that he did not believe in the existence of covid-19,” he said. “We also arrested the Imam of Wuye Jumma’at Mosque because we received several complaints that the Imam had held a congregational prayer on Friday. “But that Friday, we were at Kuje, we could not have come back within five minutes. So we got there today and invited him to come and explain; and we cautioned him at the FCT Police Command, Garki. “We also arrested two expatriates at Glo Junction for violating the President order, going out without permit. We arrested a Turkish man and an man Angolan. They’ve been handed over to the police in taken to the Maitama”. He warned the FCT residents, particularly uniformed personnel and diplomats against violating the lockdown order of President Muhammadu Buhari. (NAN)  NIS Profiles 23 Nigerian Returnees From Togo Meanwhile, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has commenced the profiling of 23 Nigerian returnees who arrived from Lome, Togo at Seme-Krake joint border post yesterday. The comptroller-general of the NIS, Muhammad Babandede, who received the report of the returnees ordered that the control post immediately carryout their proper profiling and documentation. A breakdown of the returnees showed that six are indigenes of Anambra,Ogun-3,Delta-3,Edo-2,Imo-2,Oyo-1,Benue-1,Abia-1,Enugu-1,Ekiti-1. They were said to be screened by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Port Health officials before the NIS profiling, after which they were handed over to the Lagos State ministry of Health officials for onward processing in line with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) health procedures for returning Nigerians. This was contained in a statement issued by NIS spokesman, Sunday James.  Boris Johnson Recovers, Leaves Hospital British Prime Minister, Mr Boris Johnson, has been discharged from hospital after a serious battle with coronavirus that almost took his life. 10 Downing Street confirmed yesterday afternoon that Johnson had been released from St Thomas’s Hospital in central London, after one week on admission. He spent three nights in intensive care receiving oxygen treatment as Britons waited for news of his condition. Johnson, 55, will now head to his official country residence of Chequers in Buckinghamshire to rest. His spokesman said that ‘on the advice of his medical team, the PM will not be immediately returning to work’. As his release was revealed, his pregnant fiancee Carrie Symonds, 32, tweeted her praise for staff at St Thomas’s, adding that “there were times last week that were very dark indeed. “My heart goes out to all those in similar situations, worried sick about their loved ones. ‘I cannot thank our magnificent NHS enough. The staff at St Thomas’ Hospital have been incredible. I will never, ever be able to repay you and I will never stop thanking you”, she added.