Commercial Drivers and operators of entertainment and hospital industry in Akokoland of Ondo State have lamented that the lockdown put in place by the state government to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) and Ramadan have reduced their sales. They noted that the lockdown for the past three weeks, coupled with commencement of Ramadan had crippled transportation, entertainment, and hospitality industries in Akoko area of the state. LEADERSHIP checks revealed that owners and drivers of interstate commercial vehicles plying Akoko to Lagos, Ibadan, Port Harcourt, Onitsha are currently in a state of penury, as many of them could not pay their dues to motor owners and dealers and found it difficult if not impossible to feed their families. Mr. Terin Amubieya who plies Ikare to Onitsha said that many of the inter- state drivers have resorted to borrowing from their motor owners at an exorbitant interest rate even to feed. Amubieya described President Muhammadu Buharii relax on lockdown as a temporary relief to them and the economy. A rental business owner from Agbaluku Arigidi Akoko, Mr Ojo Samuel said Ramadaan period before coronavirus lockdown always proof very dull for patronage in Akoko area due to reasonable number of Muslims observing Ramadan. He noted that many bookings have failed, while their staffs were now idle. “The gradual relaxation as pronounced by President Muhammadu Buhari as from next week might bring succour to the industry. Similarly, lack of patronage has affected food seller in restaurants, eateries and cafeteria in Akoko land as Muslims will not patronize food centres during the day”, he said. A monarch, the Akala of Ikaram Akoko, Oba Andrew Momodu urged people to bear with government in all the steps taken to curb the spread of corona virus in the country. He used the occasion to congratulate Muslim faithful for this year Ramadan, urging them to use the holy month to pray for return of normalcy to the activities which had already been destabilized by the coronavirus pandemic ravaging the globe. 