To ensure business continuity, particularly in the oil and gas sector, the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has rolled out fresh palliatives for the beneficiaries of the $200 million loans under its Nigerian Content Intervention (NCI) Fund. The palliatives include a cut in the interest rate from eight to six per cent per annum and the extension of moratorium and tenor extension. Thee palliatives take effect from April 1, 2020. NCDMB executive secretary, Engr Simbi Wabote, said that these palliatives seek to reinforce the various economic stimulus packages by the federal government to support businesses to overcome the difficulties created by the coronavirus outbreak in Nigeria. He reaffirmed the board’s commitment to continuing to provide impetus for businesses in the oil and gas industry to surmount emerging operating difficulties in line with the federal government’s policy direction. Under the new regime, all running loans with outstanding tenor within three years will be extended by six months, while those with a tenor above three years will get extra 12 months extension. Similarly, there will be moratorium extension on all running loan facilities under manufacturing, asset acquisition and contract finance with outstanding tenor not exceeding three years by six months and by 12 months for all applicable running loan facilities, effective April 1, 2020 The five loan products under the NCI Fund are manufacturing, asset acquisition, contract finance, loan refinancing and community contractor financing. However, there have been no disbursements yet under community contractor financing till date. The board also confirmed that about 91 per cent of the $200 million NCI Fund had been disbursed to 26 beneficiaries and many of the borrowers have started repaying. It indicated that the current success rate of the intervention fund is above 95 per cent. Since the COVID-19 outbreak and lockdown in Nigeria, NCDMB has continued to roll out measures to ensure resilience and business continuity in the oil and gas industry. Just last week, the board offered business advisory to “Project 100” companies and other oil and gas service companies in Nigeria on how to navigate through the precarious times and remain resilient. It also directed Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Company to give priority to the “Project 100” companies with proven capacities in the Train-7 project.