The chairman of the Nigeria Governors; Forum (NGF) and governor of Ekiti State, Dr John Kayode Fayemi, has in his first teleconference meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari,expressed support for the extension of the total lockdown of the states and Abuja. This is even as the governors demanded more Covid-19 testing centres across the country. The outcome of the meeting was contained in a statement issued yesterday by the head of media affairs of NGF, Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, During the interaction, Fayemi told the president that his national broadcast on Monday captured the mood of the nation and showed that his administration is in touch with the plight of the man on the street. Fayemi told the president that the two-week extension of the lockdown in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun states even though tough, was “the right way to go”. He also told the president that the targeted testing strategy adopted by the country had done a lot, he, however, stated that there was need for more testing for the disease. The NGF chairman added that the governors were desirous of having more testing facilities to deepen the gains made by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Fayemi further briefed the president on the distribution of palliatives and urged Buhari to instruct the relevant authorities to use the machineries of the state governments so that the relief materials would penetrate all the nooks and crannies of the country. “Palliatives” the NGF chairman explained, “would be even more meaningful if they were distributed through the state governors.” Fayemi told President Buhari that since the outbreak of the pandemic, the governors had been meeting on a regular basis and met four times over an initial span of 12 days. Fayemi said that governors would be having their next and 5th Teleconference meeting tomorrow (15th April, 2020) to review the strategies so far put in place in their various states and apply peer learning mechanism to share experiences and collectively adopt areas of successes for the good of their citizens. The SGF, Mr Boss Mustapha, the PTF Coordinator, Dr Sani Aliyu would be joining the governors in tomorrow’s meeting, just as the CBN Governor, Aliko Dangote and Herbert Wigwe will all be addressing the governors at the meeting. In previous meetings top government functionaries including the Finance minister, minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Deveolpment, and the minister of Communications and  Digital Economy have all addressed governors at different times. The meeting between the NGF chairman and the President stretched into the economy where the NGF chairman told the President that states are going through rough times and would like to appeal to the president to take certain decisive decisions to ameliorate the sufferings of the Nigerian people. Fayemi thanked the president for the approval of the release of $150million to augment projected FAAC shortfall in June but added that more needs to be done to keep the states properly afloat. “More needs to be done,” he told the president. The NGF chairman alluded to the revenues from the Liquified Natural Gas, LNG, which he said could help in assuaging some issues related to revenue shortfalls and reiterated a point from the 4th NGF teleconference meeting of the governors where they called for the suspension of all deductions by the federal government so that states can address the Covid-19 challenge from a position of economic strength. Fayemi also hinted the president that there was the need to streamline all multi-lateral and bilateral interventions and funding so that states are also integrated and considered because of the difficulties that they are going through. He commended the Presidential Task Force on Covid19 which he said is doing a great job because the challenges that the Coronavirus has thrown at them was huge but added on a lighter mood that “Hunger-vid is equally as lethal”, adding that because it puts governors at the receiving end of the hardships, all governors would be happier if their requests were met. Governor Fayemi commended the president for the manner in which he has always rescued the states. He recalled presidential approvals for bailouts, budget support facility, London Paris Club refund, etc. In his response, President Buhari commended Fayemi for providing decent leadership at the Forum and keeping all governors on course which he said has helped the federal government to find easy access to the subnational level. The president then asked the NGF chairman to formalise all the requests of the governors and forward them to him and promised that they would be promptly addressed.