A group, the Niger Delta Rights Advocates (NDRA) and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) have disagreed over alleged fraud in the award and non-execution of a N5Billion contract by the Commission’s interim management committee (IMC). The group had, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt, called for an investigation into the award and non-execution of the said contract, while the NDDC insisted that there was no fraud in the interventionist agency. The NDRA, in the statement signed by its Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Darlington Nwauju, said: “The NDRA wishes to demand for the immediate investigation of the circumstances leading to the award/non execution of a contract worth over N5billion by the Interim Management Committee (IMC) led by Prof Pondei. “Our group have been circumspect on the bogus claims of probes and forensic audit initiated since Senator Akpabio took over the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs. “It is in our estimation, the perceived agenda of the Honourable Minister to gain total and absolute control of the NDDC that has indeed fuelled his sudden anti-corruption posturing as a later day convert of the anti-corruption fight of the PMB administration.” But, in a swift response, the NDDC said it never awarded any contract of N5.55 billion for the procurement of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and other kits to fight the spread of COVID-19 in the Niger Delta region, as claimed by the NDRA. The Commission, in a statement signed by the Director, Corporate Affairs, Charles Obi Odili, said: “The Niger Delta Development Commission has been inundated with enquiries on many negative reports in online publications alleging acts of impropriety on the part of the commission. “Given the extent of public interest and the determination of the Interim Management Committee to chart a new course for the commission, we feel duty bound to respond as follows: “The online publications are circulating a letter purportedly issued by the Director of Procurement awarding a contract of N5.55 billion for the procurement of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and other kits to fight the spread of COVID-19 in the Niger Delta region. “We wish to unequivocally deny that contract. The document is simply fake or at best unauthorised. The letters for all contracts awarded by the Commission are signed by the Executive Director, Projects on the authority of the Ag Managing Director who is the chief accounting officer of the Commission. “Neither of the officials is aware of the contract letter. It is inconceivable that a contract of such magnitude could be awarded otherwise. The Commission has launched an internal investigation into how such a letter came to be issued and on what authority. “For the purpose of transparency, we wish to confirm that the Commission has just secured presidential approval to intervene by assisting NCDC in the supply of kits and the building of isolation centres in the nine Niger Delta states.”