The federal government has said there are no plans yet to provide two-month free electricity to Nigerians. The Office of the Minister of Power made the clarification on its Twitter handle on Friday. This came barely 24 hours after the distribution companies (DisCos) in a statement issued by their umbrella body, the Association of Electricity Generation Companies (ANED), signed by its spokesman and director, Research and Advocacy, Sunday Oduntan, claimed that the federal government would pay for the two months free electricity being proposed by the National Assembly (NASS). The tweet urged the public to note that no decision had been taken by the federal government to provide Nigerians with free electricity for two months. “If and when that becomes a reality, it shall be announced officially. Be rest assured that FG is exploring ways to mitigate any hardship on Nigerians,” the tweet read. Meanwhile, the management of Ikeja Electric Plc said they are in full support of the ongoing efforts of the National Assembly, in collaboration with the Federal Government on the possibility of providing free electricity for two months as part of Covid-19 palliative for customers. The head of media of the organisation, Mr Felix Ofulue, who stated this in a chat with LEADERSHIP Weekend said since the call for free electricity was still at the planning stage, customers should pay their electricity bill as when due until everything was put in place. “However, it is important to point out that at the moment, it is only a proposal and is still undergoing stakeholder reviews on its feasibility. It has not been approved by the government as a stimulus package or palliative,” he said. Ofulue stated that as the ability of the DisCos to implement this proposed palliative is subject to the stimulus package being passed by the National Assembly and signed into law by Mr. President, Ikeja Discos is awaiting the feasibility from stakeholders. “We urge all our customers to continue to pay their utility bills as usual, while on our part, we shall continue to serve and put our customers first during this difficult period.” 