Nigerian Navy Ship Delta on surveillance patrol destroyed three illegal refining sites and arrested three wooden Boats laden will illegally refined AGO in Delta State. The Coordinator Defence Media Operations Major General John Enenche said following recent discovery that some illegal refineries that were dismantled on Bennett Island in Feb 20 had been reactivated, Nigerian Navy Ship DELTA in conjunction with an Ocean Marine Service (OMS) surveillance crew on 7 April 2020 deployed two swamp buggies to the Island for anti-illegal bunkering/Crude Oil Theft (COT) operations. He said the team commenced swamp buggy operations at the illegal refining sites and deactivated 24 ovens, 35 receivers, 25 surface metal storage tanks and covered one dug out pit. The Coordinator added that on 8 Apr 20, the team located another illegal refining site at Bennett Island with 14 ovens, 20 receivers and 21 surface metal storage tanks and dismantled it. In a similar vein, the combined team of NNS Delta and OMS surveillance crew on 10 April 2020 in continuation of the swamp buggy operation at Bennett Island in Warri South located an illegal refining site and deactivated 4 ovens, 14 surface metal storage tanks and 5 coolers. He said the team also discovered an illegal valve connection along the Trans-Forcados pipeline suspected to have been connected by pipeline vandals.
“The valve and associated fittings were disconnected and recovered to the OMS Houseboat at Yeye,” he added Going further,he disclosed that the Nigerian Navy Ship Pathfinder on 8 Apr 20, while on patrol located an illegal refining site in Alakiri around Okirika general area of Rivers State. He noted that the site had approximately 20,000 litres of illegally refined AGO. “The site and products were impounded while no arrest was made as the operators of the illegal refining site fled on sighting the patrol team,” In a similar vein, the Forward Operating Base ESCRAVOS team on 7 April 2020 intercepted two wooden boats without engines controlled by one fibre boat powered by a 40HP engine along Banga village creek, Opuedebubor, Warri South West LGA, Delta State. Major General Enenche said the wooden boats were laden with about 3,000 litres of product suspected to be illegally refined AGO, packaged in polyethylene bags. Consequently, the boats were towed to a safe place and impounded. He added that on the same day, the team visited a reactivated Illegal Refining Site (IRS) along Opuedebubor Creek behind Banga Village with 14 refining units, 24 metal storage tanks, 15 metal drums and 12 dug out pits. “Cumulatively, the IRS had about 400,000 litres of AGO, 2,201 barrels of crude oil and 25,000 litres of DPK respectively,” He said the site was deactivated while the 40HP outboard engine recovered along Banga Village Creek was taken to the Base. Also in another crude oil theft operation on 9 April 2020, the statement said a patrol team revisited a previously deactivated IRS along Oviloye Creek, Warri South West LGA and observed that it had been reactivated.
He noted that the site had two refining units and 4 metal storage tanks, approximately 5,000litres of illegally refined AGO and 31.4 barrels of stolen crude oil.
During the same operation, the team intercepted two fibre boats laden with about 4,000 litres of illegally refined DPK with 40HP and 60 HP outboard engines. He said the site and petroleum products were impounded and the 40HP and 60HP outboard engines were recovered to the Base. “Cumulatively, the Forward Operating Base ESCRAVOS patrol teams denied oil thieves dealing of about 408,000 litres of illegally refined AGO, 2,232.4 barrels of stolen crude oil and 29,000 litres of DPK,” he said