Displeased with the treatment meted Africans at home and in the diaspora, the movement for zero tolerance for racism, an initiative championed by the Love Africans Organisation UK has said the time has come for Africa to unite and fight mistreatments of Africans because African lives matters. The group said enough is enough of the abuse of Africans in the diaspora and at home under the watch of world leaders warning that Africans are ready to fight for their rights anywhere in the world using all legal instruments. Worried by the recent racial mistreatments of Africans in China by the Chinese authorities in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, Love Africans Organisation rebuked the actions by the Chinese describing it as racism and humiliation of Africans. In a press statement made available to journalists in Abuja yesterday, the president, Love Africans Orgainisation UK, Dr Martins Abhulimhen, said the group is demanding the rights of Africans to be free from all inhumane treatments from any country and challenge African leaders to protect all African citizens all over the world. He said the movement is precipitated on the need to: “Provide care and support to vulnerable Africans around the world and provide economic empowerment, to serve as a world body for the prevention and protection against Africans abuse and neglect and for the promotion, defence, and advocacy of their rights, to sensitise the public in all matters concerning welfare of Africans and neglect through various ways including public lectures, seminars, workshops, conferences, exhibitions, radio and television and through preparation and dissemination of newspapers, books and journals.” Others he said are “To establish Homes and Rehabilitation Projects to Young and Old Africans to enhance Early Child Care for Development basically for abandoned, motherless babies born to chronically ill mothers, and neglected babies, and also make concrete arrangement to reintegrate them with Family members or care givers in the communities.” He lamented that Africans in China are being thrown out of their hotels, houses, denied transportation, access to grocery and are roaming the streets. “In southern Italy, Africans are engaged in slave farms. Africans are being abused in the Middle East and even in the United States. “The reason is that the value of the African lives has been destroyed, diminished part of it of course was during the slave trade and demonisation and colonisation by the European empires. “Our African misrulers have done a good job and continuing doing a job in devaluing African lives, African essence, abuse and massacring Africans and having no respect and regard for African lives. “Are we selective in our outrage, do we wait until they abuse Africans in China is that when we get outraged? If that is the case, think and ask yourself do you really value African lives or are you outrage because they are being abuse by Chinese? He further stressed that nobody in the world will respect Africa and Africans until Africans show they deserve respect. “We can change the narrative by starting to get rid of the misrulers in Africa who massacre Africans and devalue the lives and essence of Africans. That is where we must start from.” The executive director, Worldwide of Love Africans Organisation UK, Prince Ojie Mark Ojie, in the statement decried African leaders who only fight with their lips and no action. “It’s about time they show us respect. We are putting something on the table and therefore equal respect is expected from both sides. “People should not be judged by the colour of their skins but their actions and thoughts. When foreigners come to Africa to take our natural resources they are not humiliated. We are not begging, we are demanding respect for each other’s status,” Ojie said.