The All Progressives Congress (APC) has tasked Nigerians to team up, fight and conquer the global pandemic COVID-19. The party felicitated with Christian faithful on the celebration of Easter, which commemorates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. In a message siigned by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu in Abuja, the APC maintained that with a united front: “we will defeat the Coronavirus pandemic”. The party’s spokesman noted the entire mankind is in dire times, which requires collective efforts at finding inspiration in the time-honoured selfless disposition of Jesus Christ as we strive to eliminate the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. “A devastating public health crisis that has affected and disrupted every sector is upon us, every sector and individual must therefore be involved in the fight against the Coronavirus. So as we commemorate Easter with family and loved ones, we must understand that these are unusual times and our personal and collective responsibility required more than before to stay safe”. To achieve this, the party insisted “we must continue to adhere to directives on social distancing and other public health protocols aimed at containing the pandemic”. As Nigeria complements global efforts to contain further spread of the Coronavirus, the APC reiterated the charge of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus at the March 2020 Extraordinary Summit on COVID-19, that “we must fight the Coronavirus like our lives depend on it” and stressed that “we will only get out of the pandemic together and ignite a global movement to ensure this never happens again”. The ruling party commended the federal and state governments for implementing palliatives for the Nigerian citizenry, particularly those on the margins. It encouraged able individuals and organisations to continue and expand their philanthropic outreach to the elderly, poor and other vulnerable people in our societies. The party was full of praises and prayers for the selfless efforts of our medical, humanitarian, relief, security and other allied personnel in the frontlines of the fight against the coronavirus. It urged Christians to be mindful of the significant of the celebration of Easter, which emphasized, acknowledged and appreciated the redemptive blessings of the ultimate love, sufferings and sacrifices of Jesus Christ for the common good of mankind.