From what I have read about the late Chief of Staff to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, in recent days, it is obvious that Nigerians are now coming to appreciate his hidden qualities and attributes that were hitherto largely misunderstood and grossly misrepresented. It is indeed most fitting that those who associated with the man some of us knew as Ya’Abba are finally speaking up for who he was as distinct from the way he was misrepresented by a section of the media before his passage. Having worked with Ya’Abba in the last five years, I recall many conversations we had, almost on a daily basis on infrastructural developments, cost of living in the country, the security challenges confronting Nigeria as well as the breakthroughs in some of the sectors, especially agriculture. Passionate about Nigeria and its development, this was a routine conversation I had with Ya’Abba every morning. After that, it was coffee time. This latter period was always sobering as we would discuss how the government was faring and the need to expand the frontiers of success. Most times, we would carry the discussions to lunch where other members of the “family” would join. The congregation included, until recently, Ahmed Rufai, Musa Shafi’i, Fola Oyeyinka, Amina Ado, Bode Oyetunde, Yahaya Lawal, Francis Anatogu, Faruk Gumel, Abdulmutallab Muktar, and Mohammed Salisu Adaya. On most occasions, we were also joined by Ya’u Darazo and Garba Shehu. If any dignitaries visited Ya’Abba during the period, he would insist they eat with us. Usually, lunch time provided him the opportunity to tap our brains, share his experience on sustainable development and the way forward for our country. We always looked forward to these engagements. And he would usually apologise if for any reason he delayed coming to table on time. That was vintage Ya’Abba. I was fortunate to meet Ya’Abba in June 2015, following the political change of guards at the Villa. I was among the remnants of the administrative staff left behind by the previous administration and so had the task of welcoming them in. Unassuming as he was till the end, we would meet in the Villa Mosque and on the walk way and exchanged pleasantries. Although he had not been given any appointment at that time, it was clear he would work with the new administration. But he minded his business and once he had met with the president, he would take his leave. With his appointment as Chief of Staff to the President on 29th August, 2015, destiny brought us together. As was standard practice, he had to undertake an overview of his areas of responsibility and undertake a tour of units within his purview, one of which was the office of State House Counsel, which I was privileged to be occupying then. Subsequently, I would be giving him a daily briefing on where we were policy-wise and level of implementation. From the first day he assumed office, he would direct immediate follow ups and where necessary drafts for quick update to Mr. President for appropriate action. I continued on that trajectory even after being elevated me to the position of Permanent Secretary. From that vantage position, I came to respect Ya’Abba as a consummate technocrat who wanted results. He was never bothered by the loads of books and journals in and around his office that can easily qualify same as a library of intellectualism. The other side of this however, is you can never at will borrow or ask him to lend you of any of these treasures except he was sure you would truly read, utilize what you gained therefrom and add value to the discourse. I came to appreciate the style otherwise the “shelves” would have been emptied. Ya’Abba was on the list of first takers of any released publication on Politics, Economics, Philosophy and Social Developments before they are publicly unveiled.  He was truly a books man. Ya’ Abba’s love for this nation was never in doubt. He loved engaging on issues and policies and was pro-people, almost to the point of sometimes being dismissed as a socialist. At all times, he always made it clear to everyone the purpose for which President Buhari entrusted with people’s mandate. The nation and its less privileged, he would argue, came first before the elites. It was not that he had any disdain for the elites of which he was a member (given his own accomplishments in the private sector) but he detested exploitation, unfairness and injustice. He therefore made sure that where necessary, he got aside the bureaucratic processes and procedures to achieve quick results that would translate into the common good. He believed that government policies should be geared towards bettering the lives of the majority so that way he subtly challenged any slow pace of implementing an infrastructural development and socio-economic policies. Dear to his heart as legacy projects for the current administration include the National Council on Food Strategy; Presidential Fertilizer Initiative; Presidential Infrastructure Fund; Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Initiative; Completion of Second Niger Bridge; Initiation for the Funding of 18 Key Road projects across the country; Rehabilitation of Abuja-Kaduna-Kano Road Network; Presidential Power Initiative – Siemens; 10MW Grid Solar Power Project In Kano; Planting of 26 Million Trees to address Desertification; Establishment of 16 Federal Science and Technical Schools in the States; Creation of Special Public Works Program to provide part time employment to 40,000 Nigerian Youths across eight (8) states on a pilot basis; and Federal Government’s Covid-19 palliatives; etc.  Once those heavy structures and projects are completed or attained to satisfactory levels, he believed Nigeria and Nigerians will be the best for it. It was in the quest of achieving his wish to see to the rescue of the Power-sector that he took ill and subsequently died. However, like every mortal, Ya’Abba was not perfect. He was rather reticent and restrained. He was also rather wary or at times suspicious of civil servants. These two traits seemed to have tainted his orientation and outlook; and might have, in some ways, contributed to limiting what he could accomplish. But whatever may have been his imperfections, Nigeria has lost an illustrious son who was detribalized, patriotic and honest. From him, I learnt family virtues and communal relationship and fraternity. I condole with Mr. President, Baba Mamman and most especially, his wonderful family over the irreparable loss, believing that Allah will have mercy on his soul and on ours as well. I now truly believe that “every job is easy when you are not the one doing it”. Allah ya maka Rahama Ya’ Abba, Sai Munzo. – Arabi, is the outgoing Permanent Secretary, State House, Abuja.