The Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri has presented to the State House of Assembly a N242 billion Appropriation Bill for consideration, declaring that the budget will cushion the effect of the economic down turn by working with the federal government and the Central Bank of Nigeria. The bill, christened “Budget of consolidation for prosperity” earmarked the sum of N51.646 billion for personnel costs, N52.327 billion for overhead and N91.478 billion for consolidated revenue fund charges, while N46.736billion is for capital spending. A breakdown of the Appropriation Bill showed that the Ministry of Works and Transport led with the sum of N8.6billion and closely followed by the Ministry of Agriculture with N8billion. Others such as Education got N2.1billion, health N1.75billion, Power and Water Resources, N800million, Housing and Urban Development, N640million, Sports, N580million. Trade, Industry and Investment got the sum of N430.9million. Speaking yesterday during the presentation of the 2020 Appropriation Bill, Governor Douye Diri assured the people of the state that his administration will take proactive measure in the budget to cushion the effect of the economic downturn in the state by engaging vigorously with  the Federal Government, the Central Bank and the multilateral agencies like the World Bank to enable the government drive the budget successfully. Governor Diri assured that his administration will also encourage and mobilize the people to participate in Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) and Agriculture. Diri equally highlighted other programmes to include infrastructure development, housing and urban renewal, human capital development and public sector and financial management reforms. On the current economic outlook, the governor said as a result of the ravaging effect of COVID-19 on the global economy, there was need for prudent management of resources. He said the price of crude oil had nosedived drastically as against the federal government’s benchmark pegged at $55 per barrel thus affecting revenue from statutory allocations from the Federation Account.    