Innovation Festival, (IFest), a pan-African platform, is set to empower Nigerians and create job opportunities by harnessing talents that will address societal problems and challenges in critical sectors of the economy. During a media parley in Lagos, the project director, Olumide Odofin, revealed that, “IFest as a platform would encourage and collate great innovative works from young Africans, especially in key areas that would assist to drive the continent out of poverty. It would create jobs opportunities for millions of Nigerians/Africans through the convergence of all stakeholders- government, venture capitalists, businesses and innovators and implementing some of the great ideas discovered.” She maintained that,” Africans are talented and it is evident in the way and manner African youths have been able to advance the course in other western countries. Young talented Africans and Nigerians are all over without necessary support, exposure and capacity building to unbundle their hidden talent. “We’ve seen that Africa are talented and sat down to review this, we thought that we needed a platform where this people can be celebrated where we can get to reach out to more people doing very creative things and looking for ways to solve problems in Africa”, she said. According to her, “What we have done is to create a space where we bring together a lot of people across various sectors we know that we as Africans, we as Nigerians, we are blessed by God with a lot of ideas, we are problem solvers.” She explained that, “IFest is not just about technology. I understand that once you talk about innovation, the first thing people think about is technology. They think it is a tech event or all about science technology or work on building one mechanical design that is new.” “We have the sense and we know that innovation is much more than tech. Tech is just like a driver or a tool to achieve your innovative ideas. “At IFest, we welcome every innovation ideas, either technology enables or not. What we want to achieve is to address societal issues, we don’t just want to talk about it. We’re going to start from this space of the solution to every challenge into its execution”, she noted. Odofin also noted that, “IFest is going to make sure that each of those challenges are being addressed to meet in the area of agricultural needs in the area of health, within the area of entertainment or lifestyle, science and technology, which is also key, and all other areas that we can think about. “We are looking at bringing about 14 new ideas. And imagine how much 14 ideas will go in creating jobs to this society and also solving societal problems. “So, we know that we’ve been able to identify the issue of unemployment, we also want to address the issue of poverty, too. So basically, we will be able to get at least up to 2000 people off of the streets with our first edition,” Odofin said. She urged people with innovative ideas to online, submit their ideas. Adding that, “We have seven sectors, which you can submit your ideas to. There, you pick your sector, you submit your ideas, and selection and judging with our judges will be reviewed in due course. She noted that a lot is going on in banking/finance sector, so it’s not included. 