The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has stressed the need to urgently address the issue of inadequate gas supply  to thermal generating power plants nationwide to avert serious system disturbance. TCN in a statement said, “The power sector has in the past weeks continued to experience power supply shortage due to serious gas constraints to most of the  nation’s thermal generating stations. “TCN hereby note that there is need to urgently address the issue of gas shortage to thermal generating power plants nationwide to avert serious system disturbance. Recall that the transmission company reported the low gas supply to many power plants few weeks ago. The statement note with regret that the gas shortage has persisted to date. “This has restrained optimal generation into the grid and consequently the quantum of electricity transmitted to distribution load centres,” it said. According to the statement, the thermal power plants most affected by gas supply constraint include; Geregu Gas station now generating 0MW against 435MW, Geregu NIPP generating 81MW with a shortfall of 354MW, Sapele NIPP now generating 0MW against 230MW, Olorunsosgo NIPP generating 0MW against 112MW and Olorunsogo Gas plant generating 70.5MW with a shortfall of 195.5MW while Gbarian plant is generating 0MW against 112MW. Also affected by the gas supply constraint are: Omotosho NIPP generating 110MW with a shortfall of 220MW, meanwhile Egbin power plant, Alaoji NIPP, Delta, Okpai are equally affected by gas shortage. Egbin is currently generating 596MW with a short fall of 264MW. Delta II-IV gas is generating 306.81MW with a shortfall of 128.19MW and Okpai Gas plant is generating 159MW with a shortfall of 291MW. On the other hand, Rivers IPP, AFAM IV-V and Paras Energy are also generating with a shortfall of 40MW, 60MW and 30.2MW respectively. AFAM VI does not have gas supply problem but one of its units is out on fault. Presently, Azura and Odukpani power plants are the only two thermal power generating stations generating at full capacity into the nation’s grid. “With the current situation therefore, a few of the distribution companies that can pick more load are unable to, because what is generated into the grid is what TCN strives to distribute equitably to DisCos nationwide,” the statement noted. 