As part of efforts to curtail the spread of COVID-19 in the country, the Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited Supports has donated over N500 million worth of medical interventions to the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital Gwagwalada, Niger State Isolation Centre Minna, and other states. The funds according to the managing director, MESL, Engr Lamu Audu, in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP Weekend yesterday in Abuja, will be channeled to the provision of medical and personal protective equipment (PPE) to the selected front-line institutions dealing with the pandemic. Audu said that some of the isolation centres the company via its foundation has provided medical supplies to include the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital and the Minna Isolation Centre in Niger state. He noted that the company will also be intervening in other states, as part of its corporate social responsibility. The statement reads in part: ‘’Mainstream is fully aware of the threat that the novel coronavirus has posed to the global healthcare and economic systems including Nigeria and is keen to play its role as a responsible corporate citizen to assist the nation’s response against the global pandemic. ‘’The funds were used to provide some critical equipment for use in the isolation ward of the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital, which includes X-Ray machines, digitizers, personal protective equipment, CT scans, 350Kva generator, furnishing of nine rooms at the newly constructed trauma Centre within the Teaching Hospital to provide accommodation for doctors and nurses who are in the frontline of providing medical services to COVID-19 patients.’’
The managing director also said MESL Foundation also fully equipped a 50-bed isolation centre in Minna, Niger State, which includes medical equipment such as ventilators, ECG machines, hematology analyzers, x-ray machines, and PPE. He further expressed its commitment to continue fulfilling its role as an essential service provider, to generate and deliver safe and reliable electricity for the benefit of Nigerians during this challenging period. Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited (MESL), operators of the Kainji and Jebba Hydropower Plants in Niger State. Mainstream Foundation was established by MESL in 2016, to coordinate its interventions in four key focus areas namely, education, health, community empowerment and environment, primarily within the Niger, Kogi, Kwara and Kebbi states.