Simba Group, distributors of TVS tricycles have donated food, face masks and hand sanitizers to tricycle (keke) riders across the country. The company said the programme, which began at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, has enabled thousands of tricycle riders to continue their means of livelihood, where permitted, and provide a vital and safer mode of public transport in these trying times. The nationwide distribution programme was recently extended to include distribution of food, as many of the riders operate in States where lockdown conditions apply. Officials of the company have embarked on restricted-access handover ceremonies, in line with suggested social distancing practices, to donate the items to the beneficiaries in collaboration with State governments. Recent handover ceremonies have taken place in Maiduguri, Kano, Sokoto and Ibadan with more scheduled to take place across the country, local restrictions permitting.
Group managing director of Simba, Chief Vinay Grover said: “The COVID-19 pandemic has had a massive impact on our lives, and there is no doubt that there will be far reaching consequences for us as a society. Our top priority at the moment is the health and safety of our employees, our customers and those in our wider community. Recognising that riders of motorcycles and tricycles are daily wage earners and often have the primary financial responsibilities for their families, Simba is running a nationwide campaign to sensitize them on health and safety and has made donations towards personal protective equipment and food supplies for them. We endeavor to continue doing this wherever possible in the country.” Photo caption are Member of Network of Civil Society Organisations, Ambassador Usman Ibrahim; senior staff, Simba TVS, Mr Sajid Saifi; Commissioner for Transport, Borno State, Abubakar Tijani and chairman, Network of Civil Society Organisations, Ambassador Ahmed Shehu during the distribution of face masks and sanitisers to Tricycle (Keke) riders by Simba TVS in Maiduguri, Borno State, recently.