Rivers State governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, yesterday, personally effected the arrest of five persons who violated the lockdown orders of the state government in parts of Port Harcourt metropolis. This is as the Rivers State government yesterday profiled and evacuated 150 vagrants to their various states of origin and Niger Republic. Wike made the arrests while monitoring the compliance level of the lockdown order declared during his state-wide broadcast on Monday on Elekahia, including the entire stretch of Rumukalagbor-Elekahia link road; Rumuomasi, including Stadium road; and Rumuobiokani. The governor, who declared that those arrested were not on essential duties, urged Rivers people to cooperate with the state government to ensure that coronavirus is kept at bay, saying that the stringent measures were for the good of the people. He said: “We urge all residents to simply comply with the established directives and protocols on the lockdown and social distancing and save our state from the COVID-19 scourge.” Meanwhile, the Rivers State government yesterday profiled and evacuated 150 vagrants to their various states of origin and Niger Republic. Wike, had during a state-wide broadcast on Monday, directed the State Commissioner for Social Welfare to round up and deport all vagrants to their state of origin. The governor said: “We have also directed the Commissioner of Social Welfare to round-up and deport all vagrants, including the almajiris, to their states of origin to protect our people from the threat they present to the transmission of this pandemic.” The affected states including Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi and states in the Northern part of Nigeria as well as some local government areas in Rivers State. The commissioner for Social Welfare, Mrs. Inime Aguma, led other officials of the ministry to profile the vagrants before they were evacuated to their states and local government areas of origin. Speaking to newsmen, Aguma stated that the evacuation exercise is non-discriminatory programme aimed at protecting Rivers people. She said the exercise was not targeted at any ethnic group, but aimed at removing vagrants who may circulate coronavirus from the streets. The commissioner noted that the right arrangements have been put in place to ensure that the vagrants are transported to their respective locations in dignity.