The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has warned President Muhammadu Buhari against cutting down the budget of health and education sectors in the proposed 2020 revised budget over COVID-19 pandemic.  The union also urged the government not to muddle up funds budgeted for social intervention with money donated for palliatives for the vulnerable members of the society to cope with COVID-19 which has negatively affected their livelihoods.  The University of Ibadan chairman of the union, Prof. Ayo Akinwole said it was now obvious that government had not learnt anything from the COVID-19 pandemic on the precarious state of facilities in Nigeria’s health and education sectors.  ASUU stated that the proposed cut by the Buhari government showed the government as totally lacking in understanding of the precarious state of things in Nigeria’s health and education sectors.  The federal government is proposing a slash of 50.76billion from the 111.78 billion budgeted for UBEC to bring it down to 61.02 billion and a cut of 26.51 billion from the 44.49 billion allocated to basic health care to bring it down to 17.98 billion naira.  Akinwole stated that a serious and progressive government will not allocate funds for any rehabilitation of government buildings or purchase of buses but will face critical sectors like health and education in the face of COVID-19 pandemic which has brought all political, economic,  religious, among other activities to a halt.  On the palliative being distributed, Akinwole lashed out at the government for stopping salaries of lecturers for refusing the quest of the government to break the laws thereby making over 30,000 lecturers and there over 50,000 dependants vulnerable at a time like this.  Akinwole stated that the distribution of the palliatives seem fraudulent as the reactions from Lagos and other states of the nation indicated that government officials are profiteering in palliative distribution.  The ASUU boss advised that vulnerable people in slums, commercial drivers, Okada riders, food vendors, luggage porters among others must be targeted.  According to him, while the stoppage of salaries to lecturers is a sign of lawlessness and tyranny of the government, members of the union will not be cowed in their resolve to fight for the revitalisation of public funded education and the sanctity of the laws of the land.  He advised federal and state governments to include journalists in palliatives being distributed, saying over fifty percent of journalists were not being paid salaries while many are being owed over a year salaries.  “I have not seen this kind of government. A top government official claimed he never knew our health institution is this precarious and the government that has not allocated sufficient funds to that sector is further reducing it!