Governor Ahmadu Fintiri Tuesday said Adamawa state has recorded another case of COVID-19, bringing total number of confirmed cases to two (2) in the state. Fintiri during update press briefing in Yola, said the recent victim is a Medical Doctor in one of the government hospitals in Mubi, has no link with the first index case. He said, “What is striking about this case, is the fact that it is not linked to the index case, who must have had contact with many people in the course of discharging his duties lawfully.” He also lamented that having additional case in the state is truly worrisome. The Governor said, “last week 8 samples were sent to Abuja. 5 were direct contacts of the index case as traced; while 3 were new suspicious cases who were showing symptoms. “In Adamawa State, up till yesterday, the total case confirmed was 1; total case discharge is 0; and total death is 0. Just when we thought we are doing enough to flatten the curve with the tremendous progress our index case is making toward complete recovery, “I received, yet again, another devastating update that out of the 8 samples we have pending at the NCDC Referral Lab in Abuja, 1 turned out positive, 6 are negative an 1 still pending. With this, I regret to announce that we now have 2 COVID-19 Confirmed Cases in Adamawa State. “More disturbing is the fact that the victim is a Medical Doctor in one of our hospitals in Mubi. “This indeed places on our shoulder, a herculean task of contact tracing which is not only tedious but strenuous. “While the contact tracing is no doubt daunting, more scaring is the fact that we may be sliding into the most dangerous phase of the pandemic, which is Community transmission of the virus. “It is on note that our Index Case is a returnee from Kano; and therefore we are certain of how the disease was couriered into the State. “But when the case is a doctor, resident in a public hospital with access to colleagues and countless patients, the level of Community Infection can best be imagined.” He urged citizens to reinforce the need to stay safe and adhere to the pandemic’s prevention and management etiquette. “Stay at home; if you must go out, wear your mouth and nose mask; uphold personal and environmental hygiene; avoid overcrowding; maintain social and physical distancing. “Be vigilant and raise alarm whenever you notice any symptom on a neighbor, a family member or yourself. “This will go a long way in early detection and possible isolation, where necessary. At this point I hereby declare that the wearing of mouth and nose mask is compulsory for all citizens whenever they go out and in all public functions. Our Disease Surveillance Officers are in all the Communities and they are there to serve you. “At this point in time, what is required is care not fear. Hope not despair. COVID-19 is no doubt real but not big enough to defeat us all. “We must collectively, develop a mindset that inspires. Understanding that it is a disease that knows no boundary and protecting any suspicious or confirmed case against stigmatization, marks a fundamental community triumph over the disease. “On this note, I want to bring to you the good news that our index case is in stable condition. The Case Management Team is attending to him with the best of care. “He is recuperating fast and we hope to have him back in our midst with love very soon,” the Governor explained. 