The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has listed Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc and Primero BRT Securitisation SPV Plc bond valued at N28.9 billion on its bond platform. The NSE admitted the N12.5 billion, three-year 10 per cent Series three (Tranche A) Fixed Rate Senior Unsecured Bond due 2023; and the N7.5 billion five-year 11.10 per cent Series 3 (Tranche B) Fixed Rate Senior Unsecured Bond due 2025, issued by Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc under its N70 billion Bond Issuance Programme. Also, N16.5 billion Series one; 17 per cent Fixed Rate Bonds due 2026 under the N100 billion Medium Term Bond Programme of Primero BRT Securitisation SPV Plc bonds was listed on the NSE. Speaking on the listings of both Bonds, the chief executive officer of NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema, congratulated the management of Flour Mills Nigeria and Primero BRT Securitisation SPV and the professional parties to the issue. He reiterated the commitment of the Exchange to support its stakeholders, saying “As an Exchange, we are committed to ensuring that our operations and trading activities continue seamlessly throughout this period. “We have put in place the requisite measures to guarantee that our staff are able to provide requisite support, our stakeholders are able to conduct business digitally, and that all relevant information continues to flow into the market to spur capital market activity during the Covid-19 pandemic.” The group managing director, Flour Mills Nigeria, Mr. Peter Gbededo expressed excitement over the listing of the bond on the NSE. He said, “We are delighted to return to the capital market with such a successful outing, especially with the level of interest shown by investors. The response from the market vindicates our decision to have taken this additional step to diversify our financing options beyond short-term commercial bank debt. Furthermore, we are excited about the role NSE is playing in deepening secondary market liquidity thus aligning our market with international best practices, and we look forward to enjoying the benefits of these efforts in our short and long-term instruments.” Since the activation of its Business Continuity Plan in response to Covod-19 on March 25, 2020, The Exchange has transitioned to digital operations with its employees working remotely and Dealing Member Firms trading remotely. The Exchange has had no disruptions to its operations since the activation of the slowdown efforts by state and federal governments to flatten the COVID19 curve. 