Economic experts have said the federal government would have to come up with homemade measures to prevent the nation’s economy from suffering the pangs of impending global economic recession recently announced by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). According to the experts, the implication of the global economic recession is grave for Nigeria especially because of the weak structure of the country’s economy, which relies largely on a single product – crude oil – for revenue. IMF managing director, Kristalina Georgieva, had said many emerging markets will experience a contraction as necessary COVID-19 containment measures take their toll, and are shocked by reduced global demand for their exports – tourism, commodities, and manufactured goods – that provide critical streams of foreign exchange. But one of the economic experts, Prof Uche Uwaleke, said a major way the Nigerian economy can be insulated from external shocks such as the current one is to have multiple streams of income through diversification of the export base. In this regard, the Professor of Finance and Capital market said the government should pay serious attention to health, education (with emphasis on skills), Agriculture (with emphasis on processing), solid minerals and the enabling infrastructure such as power, transport and ICT. The slowdown in economies of consumer nations such as China and India has reduced considerably the demand for crude oil, leading to a sharp drop in oil price made worse by the price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia on the supply side.  To also help stimulate the economy, Uwaleke who is also a former commissioner for finance in Imo State said state governments should prioritise the payment of salaries and pensions so that demand for goods and services is sustained while small businesses take advantage of the intervention funds rolled out by the CBN to ensure continuity in production. Uwaleke said that the current double digit inflation rate in the country makes difficult a low interest rate environment leading to high cost of funds for small and medium enterprises. Commending the palliatives so far announced by the federal government and the CBN, he noted that the coverage of many of the interventions should be widened to include most people that live below the poverty line, to achieve the objective of cushioning the effect of movement restrictions in many parts of the country. Similarly, another economic analyst, Dr Anthony Aziegbemi said Nigeria must look inwards and start looking at homemade solutions to its problems. Aziegbemi advocated for what he called “targeted sector growth.” The import of his assertion is that government should priority to sectors that have more leverage in reducing unemployment and enhancing the income of households. He identified the sectors to include Agriculture and Manufacturing. “And then, we have to cut our recurrent expenditure by 75% both at the Federal level and the State,” he added. Also, an Economist, Stephen Kanabe, said the coronavirus pandemic offers Nigeria the opportunity to invest and develop the nation’s dilapidated health infrastructure. He urged the government to be serious about the need to diversify the economy and drastically reduce her over dependence on crude oil.  To avert the impending economic catastrophe, Kanabe said government must urgently look inwards as it plans to reflate the economy. According to him, the funds can be generated through bonds with wealthy individuals and corporate bodies encouraged (with high yields and other incentives) invest in same to enable the government fund critical public goods. “The government should adopt a broad approach in tackling the economic issues occasioned by the pandemic,” he said, adding that “in terms of fiscal policies, the government needs to inject funds to support the vulnerable population and small business as well as to provide essential infrastructure in order to reflate the economy.” Kanabe also agreed with Aziegbemi that government must be transparent and significantly slash recurrent expenditure (salaries of political office holders and overheads). On the monetary side, Kanabe called for reduction in the CBN regulated Monetary Policy Rate from the current 13.5%. “This will further reduce interest rates and further reduce cost of doing business,” he said. Already, the Covid-19 disease is affecting the Nigerian economy. On the fiscal side, lower revenue is compelling the government to adjust downwards the 2020 budget by as much as N1.5 trillion. Some critical capital projects will no doubt be affected slowing down overall development. There is a believe that the government is rising up to the public health challenge through some of the measures it has already taken including the release of funds to the NCDC and the lockdown of cities most affected.  