Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has stated that the problem of power supply in the country is largely a function of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)’s lack of capacity, insisting the transmission subsector remains the weakest link in power sector value chain for lack of technical expertise. TCN had claimed that “As at 19:00 hours on April 25, 2020, due to rainfall, AEDC dropped load and was off taking only 0.5MW and l6MW from TCN’s 330kV substations in Katampe and Gwagwalada respectively. “All AEDC 33kV feeders were out due to poor distribution network. This will certainly create high voltage that may damage TCN terminal equipment”, advocating immediate capitalisation of DisCos to save power sector from imminent collapse. Making this known in a statement, AEDC however admitted that some of its 33kv feeders tripped on Saturday evening during to the stormy rain, resulting in blackouts in most areas, but insisted that one principal factor that aids the tripping of feeder at any voltage level is the relay setting of such feeders, coordination of which TCN has refused to do to give room for professionally determined tolerance level. “For a very long time, TCN has resisted a coordination of the setting of their relays in such a way that it will allow for professionally determined tolerance level.Thus we ask if it is a case of funds or expertise. “The weakest link in the value chain today is TCN and this is manifest in the poor protection of its equipment,” the statement read. AEDC said on the 23rd of April, 2020, four of TCN interface points suffered system disturbances within AEDC franchise Area, whicha affected some communities. According to the statement, the affected  include 2x60MVA, 132/33kV Kubwa TS, which was off supply from early morning to late evening hours, affecting power supply to Bwari, Dawaki, part of Gwarinpa, Kubwa and Dei-Dei; Wire cut on 132kV Karu – Keffi line, affecting power supply to the entire Nasarawa state for several hours;1x60MVA , 132/33kV transformer at Okene TS which lasted for several hours affecting power supply to Okene, Kabba, Ososo and environs; and one of the 2x60MVA, 132/33kV transformers at Katampe 2 which was also out for hours, affecting power supply to Wuse 2, Mabushi, Jahi and environs. The distribution company (DisCo) lamented that despite several letters and verbal communication, this has not been resolved, adding that as a result of this fault, AEDC was forced to embark on massive load shedding of customers in the affected areas, which include Central Area, Maitama, Garki, Jabi and environs.  