The abductors of Olori Funbi, wife of Oba Olusanjo Ojo, Baba-Aso of Igbole in Igboora, headquarters of Ibirapa Central local government area of Oyo State and daughter have regained freedom after payment of N2.5 million ransom. Our correspondent gathered that the duo was released on Wednesday evening by their abductors in a forest along IgbooraAbeokuta road. The abducted wife of the monarch is the Matron of Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology (OYSCATECH) health centre. It would be recalled that the monarch’s wife alongside her daughter were kidnapped on Monday evening while returning from the college where she worked. The kidnappers had on Tuesday evening via phone call demanded N4million ransom for the duo to be released. Family source told newsmen on Thursday via telephone that the duo regained freedom after payment of N2.5 million ransom. The source said the ransom was delivered to the kidnappers in a bush along Igboora-Abeokuta road. “Olori and her daughter have been released yesterday night after the payment of N2.5 million. We took the money to the abductors yesterday night to get them back. “We delivered the money in a bush surrounded by about 12 armed Fulani herdsmen. They told us that not even policemen can stop them. It is a pity that security in this country has become a great mess. “It has gotten to the extent that these people now operates undisturbed. I think our people should evolve measures to stop this mess if police can’t stop them from this dastardly act,” he said. It would be recalled that the incident was one of several of such experienced in Ibarapa area of the state and its vicinity. No fewer than ten of such kidnap cases had occurred in the Igboora within the last two years. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Oyo Police Command, Gbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police   confirmed that the monarch’s wife and daughter have regained freedom. “I can confirm to you that the abducted wife of the monarch and her daughter have been released unhurt,” he said.