Governor of Zamfara State,  Bello Mohammed Matawalle has approved a two-week extension of boundary closure and stay-at-home order occasioned by the outbreak of coronavirus in some states of the federation. This was contained in a statement signed by the secretary to the state government (SSG),  Bala Bello. He said the extension was as a result of the spread of the coronavirus pandemic to some neighbouring states. “The coronavirus spread was reported in some of our neighbouring states such as Kaduna and Katsina, looking at the situation, when His Excellency ordered the closure on the 28th of March, 2020, only 98 cases were confirmed in Nigeria and 571,659 cases were confirmed globally. But as at yesterday, 9th April, 288 cases were confirmed in Nigeria while 1,436,198 cases were confirmed globally with 85,522 deaths”, he added. According to him, the state government was aware of the difficulties people were going through, and is making effort to provide succour to the entire people of the state in this trying period. “Although no single case was so far recorded in the state, His Excellency has put on proactive measures to prevent, mitigate and control the pandemic in the state”, he added. The measures taken so far, include constitution of Prevention and Control, Security and Border Closure and Impact and Relief Committees. He stressed that these Committees have achieved so much in providing various services that include provision of hand sanitizers, face masks, fumigation, sensitization campaigns and programmes, establishment of isolation centres, recruitment of adequate personnel, fund raising, provision of relief packages, provision of vehicles for essential services as well as monitoring and evaluation of compliance with COVID-19 regulations issued by the state government and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The state government expressed appreciation to the committees in delivering on their mandate. He lauded the support and cooperation of the general public and security agencies, traditional rulers, religious leaders, health workers, journalists, social media forums and the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) who have tirelessly contributed towards ensuring the success of the state government’s effort in ensuring voluntary compliance with government instructions .