The Shehu of Bama, Kyari Ibn Umar El-Kanemi, has passed on at the age of 65. He died yesterday afternoon at the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) of a yet-to-be disclosed ailment. El-Kanemi’s passage was announced by the Borno State commissioner for Home Affairs, Information and Culture, Babakura Abba Jato. The commissioner took advantage of the daily media briefing held by the state’s High-powered Response Committee on Prevention and Control of COVID-19 to confirm the eminent monarch’s death to journalists. Jato said that the deceased was known to have been battling with protracted illness as many people of his age, often deal with. He explained that the Shehu’s Palace would announce the funeral arrangements which would be communicated to members of the public. Jato said that the state government “stands with the royal family and the people of Bama, the state’s council of chiefs and the entire people of the state in this grieving period. “Official statement over the cause of his death will be issued in due course after the body might have left the UMTH,” the commissioner added. LEADERSHIP recalls that Bama was the target of boko haram terrorists in the past where they forced the natives and other inhabitants to flee their homes. The traditional ruler wasn’t spared as his wife and daughter were abducted in 2014 and released two years after. The late Shehu of Bama had been shuttling between Maiduguri and Bama since 2014 when he fled the town to administer his emirate. Since the creation of the old Dikwa Emirate, the deceased was the 7th Shehu of Bama. In 2010, the former governor of Borno State, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff,  split the old Dikwa Emirate into Dikwa Emirate and Bama Emirate. The old Dikwa Emirate comprised four local government areas of Dikwa, Ngala, Kalabalge and Bama while a new emir, Alhaji Mohammed Abba Masta (11) took over as the Shehu of Dikwa administering Dikwa, Ngala and Kalabalge. However, the late El-Kanemi concentrated on ruling Bama Emirate, which has only one local government area.  …PMB Mourns Monarch Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the passing of El-Kanemi, describing him as “a humble and unassuming traditional ruler.” “The demise of Kyari El-Kanemi is not only a loss to Borno State, but to the country at large,” President Buhari said in a condolence statement issued by his media aide, Garba Shehu. According to the president “the Emir was a champion of unity and peaceful coexistence, and the country will remember him for this commitment to its unity.” Buhari added that “the late Emir of Bama had played his role well by identifying with the interest of his people at all times by being their voice.” While extending his condolences to the Shehu of Borno and the state government over the death, the president prayed Allah to forgive the deceased and grant him eternal peace in paradise for his good deeds.  