The Presidency has enjoined Nigerians to trust information coming from scientists and medical specialists as regard issues concerning virus diseases, instead of listening to Professors of Literary writings. Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, gave the advice while reacting to comments made by Prof. Wole Soyinka, on the legal status of the 14-day lockdown announced by President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday. Shehu said Professor Soyinka is not a medical professor, stressing that his qualifications are in English literature, and his prizes are for writing books as well as plays for theatres. The Presidential spokesman said, “He is of course entitled to his opinions – but that is exactly all they are: semantics, not science. They cannot – and should not – therefore be judged as professional expertise in this matter in any shape or form. “Across the world – from parts of the United States and China, to countries including the United Kingdom and France, government – mandated lockdowns are in place to slow and defeat the spread of coronavirus. All have been declared, and all have been made necessary, based on medical and scientific evidence. The guidance of the Nigerian Government’s medical specialists is to advise the same. “Professor Soyinka has also declared, doubtless based on his specialism as a playwright, that:  “We are not in a war emergency’’. As for the legality of the lock down, Shehu said  the Government of Nigeria’s primary duty in law and action is the defence of the people of Nigeria. “ We face a global pandemic. Nigeria is now affected. The scientific and medical guidance the world over is clear: the way to defeat the virus is to halt its spread through limitation of movement of people’.  “Perhaps Wole Soyinka may write a play on the coronavirus pandemic, after this emergency is over. In the meantime, we ask the people of Nigeria to trust the words of our doctors and scientists – and not fiction writers – at this time of national crisis.’’  