…seeks support from corporate bodies, others In the wake of the economic fallouts of the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak in the state, the Edo Development and Property Agency (EDPA) has commenced the distribution of food and other household items to elderly and vulnerable persons in the state, to ameliorate the economic effects of the pandemic. Executive Chairman of EDPA, Isoken Omo, led other members of the agency to distribute the items in Oredo and Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Areas, assuring that the gesture will be extended to other parts of the state. Over 1000 packs, tagged, ‘COVID-19 Survival Pack’ were distributed in each of the LGAs. Some of the items in each pack include vegetable oil, rice, beans, garri, detergent, spaghetti, salt, sugar, noodles, tin tomatoes, paracetamol, seasonings, beverages, detergent, dishwashing liquid and disinfectant, among others. Omo said the distribution of the items has become necessary as most vulnerable persons can no longer afford to feed themselves, adding, “The Government can’t do it alone in these trying times without the support of citizens, corporate and private citizens as well as non-governmental organizations. We plead with public-spirited Nigerians and other Edo citizens to make the stay at home period better for the vulnerable in the society.” She added, “Our focus is on the vulnerable citizens who are struggling and can’t afford to feed themselves during this period. We have them at heart and have embarked on the distribution of this relief materials to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic.” The packs were distributed to vulnerable persons at Isibor and Omomo Streets off Stadium Road. Other areas the team visited include Igbesamwan and Aruosa streets off Sopkonba Road; African Church Street; Ogbelaka Street; Ekhator Street; Nomayo Street and Oka Market. Some of the beneficiaries include a 90-year- old man, Mr. John Uwadia, while others include Joseph Igehon, Mrs. Taiwo Igiebor and Mrs. Rose Ehigietor, who thanked the EDPA and Governor Obaseki for the kind gesture. They said the items will go a long way to cushion the effect of COVID-19 pandemic in the State. They, however, reassured the governor that the people will continue to support his administration in its efforts at transforming the state and improving livelihoods. The EDPA team also visited the Edo State Government Children’s Correctional Center at Ugbekun, off Upper Sokponba Road in Benin City, where sanitizers, cooked food and packs were distributed to the children.