The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has configured its C-130H aircraft for aeromedical evacuation missions to support the national response to the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The chief of air staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, disclosed this during the closing ceremony of C-130 COVID-19 Simulation Exercise in Abuja, yesterday. He said that the effort was to enhance the capabilities of medical personnel and ensure the safety of patients who are critically ill and require movement, using NAF aircraft to treatment centres in other parts of the country, where facilities for better treatment are available. He said: “This effort is to enhance the knowledge of medical personnel in Flight Aeromedical Evacuation Systems as well as Aircraft Security and Aviation Safety to enable them to carry out envisaged airlift tasks in relation to the current health emergency more effectively and efficiently.” Abubakar noted that in the past, patients were evacuated using the C-130 aircraft without life-saving equipment, stressing that with the current efforts, patients can now be transported to any state of the federation while being attended to by NAF medical personnel. According to him, “This knowledge is very apt as patients can be attended to with life-saving equipment. “The C-130 aircraft can now be used to transport patients with minimal risk while they are airborne. Meanwhile, NAF has distributed food items and other palliatives to members of host communities in Bauchi State to cushion the effects of the coronavirus as part of the celebration of its 56th anniversary. The Force distributed 100 packages of food items at Gwallaga and another 100 at Durum which are its host communities in Bauchi. Air Vice Marshal Charles Ohwoo, Air Officer Commanding Special Operations, Bauchi, who represented Abubakar at the event, said that the distribution of the food items was part of the efforts by the military to mitigate the pains of the novel coronavirus by encouraging people to stay at home. Responding on behalf of the host communities, the ward head of Gwallaga, Alhaji Dandada Ahmadu, described the intervention as timely. NAF also distributed food items to 240 families in four of their host communities in Benue State. The items included bags of rice, oil, detergents, yams and other condiments. The exercise, according to the Air Officer Commanding (AOC), Tactical Air Command (TAC), AVM Olusegun Philips, was carried out in conjunction with the Nigerian Air Force Officers Wives Association (NAFOWA), to cushion the effect of COVID-19 lockdown directives of the Federal and State Government. Earlier, the chairperson of NAFOWA, Antonia Philips, told the beneficiaries of the desire of the wife of CAS, Hajia Hafsat Abubakar to reach out to those in need, especially widows and single mothers in all the host communities of NAF to help alleviate their plight. On behalf of the communities, the Ter Makurdi, Chief Sule Abenga and the district head of Abinsi, Chief Christopher Apaki, thanked NAF for considering their communities at this critical time, saying they have written their names in the sands of time.  