For the second day running, the price of Brent crude oil, Nigeria’s equivalent of Bonny Light plunged from $26 per barrel to $18 last night. Earlier in the day, Brent Crude lost 8.9 per cent from the previous day’s closing price of $26.46 to $25.57 per barrel. At 8pm last night, the price fell to $18 per barrel, with fears that it could still drop to a lower rate. Data from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis showed that Brent declined 8.9 per cent to $25.57 a barrel, noting that it’s far below the lowest level previously seen in the monthly data charts since 1946, just after World War II. The early day price was about $5 short of Nigeria’s latest benchmark of $30 per barrel, thus further complicating the prospect of the country’s ability to meet its budgetary obligations for the year. Earlier report had indicated that there was panic in the market as Brent crude oil prices plummeted by over 20 percent into the $18 range in early morning trading, after Monday’s historic crash which left the West Texas Intermediate US benchmark settling at $12.05. Analysts expressed worries over the situation, stressing that the drop, sparked by a perfect storm of COVID-19 fuelled demand destruction and global crude storage facilities reaching their limits, is unlike anything markets had ever seen. They added that the development had left everyone including veteran industry players scratching their heads. Atiku, PDP Urge Reserve Build-up, N70 Per Litre Meanwhile, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has canvassed the setting up of a strategic crude oil reserve, with massive storage capacity that can hold at least a month’s worth of OPEC production capacity. Atiku made the appeal yesterday when he reacted to the fall in price of global oil market due to sudden, massive and unexpected drop in worldwide demand for crude oil because of the corona virus pandemic. Atiku, who was presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 election, said that it was time for Nigeria to protect her economy from being tossed to and fro by circumstances beyond her control. He said that Nigeria must assert her sovereignty by exerting more influence over the global trade in crude oil and other features. He said: ”I believe that the time is right for Nigeria to build a strategic crude oil reserve, with massive storage capacity that can hold at least a month’s worth of our OPEC production capacity. “If we build such an infrastructure, we will not have to sell our crude at a production loss. We will be in a position to stockpile the product in our reserve until such a time as prices improve. “Indeed, other nations take such measures to protect their economy. North American and European nations have such internal controls to protect almost every sector of their economy – from agriculture, automobile, and even intellectual property. Nigeria cannot be left behind. We must be in business for the best interest of our economy,” he said. On its part, the PDP maintained that there was no justifiable reason to continue to retain the pump price of fuel at N125 per litre despite the drastic crash in the international price of crude oil. While restating its call on the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its federal government to slash the pump price of fuel to reflect the prevalent slump in the cost of crude oil and petroleum products in the international market, the opposition party noted in a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, that given the prevalent international price, the appropriate price template for domestic pump price of fuel in Nigeria ought to be between N60 and N70 per litre, in response to the variables of international market forces. The PDP stressed that the APC government ought to have reduced the pump price, earlier in the year, to N90 per liter when crude oil price slumped to about $30 per barrel. The party, therefore “wonders why this administration had continued with N125 per liter, even with the further fall in the price of crude oil price.”