The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has approved Nigeria’s request for emergency financial assistance of $3.4 billion, 100 per cent of quota under the Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI) to meet the urgent balance of payment needs stemming from the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The IMF approved the emergency fund to support the federal government’s efforts in addressing the severe economic impact of the COVID-19 shock and the sharp fall in oil prices. The approval was contained in the details that emerged from the board meeting yesterday. The grant to Nigeria is reportedly the highest IMF has ever given to any member-country. Nigeria had applied for a total drawdown of its $3.4 billion contribution tagged Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI) with the IMF. The money is meant to combat the impact of coronavirus. A day before the meeting, LEADERSHIP had reported that the IMF Board would approve the request yesterday. The Fund said that the near-term economic impact of COVID-19 is expected to be severe, while already high downside risks have increased.  Even before the COVID-19 outbreak, Nigeria’s economy was facing headwinds/from rising external vulnerabilities and falling per capita GDP levels. The pandemic- along with the sharp fall in oil prices- has magnified the vulnerabilities, leading to a historic decline in growth and large financing needs. The IMF financial support will help limit the decline in international reserves and provide financing to the budget for targeted and temporary spending increases aimed at containing and mitigating the economic impact of the pandemic and of the sharp fall in international oil prices. The IMF said that it remains closely engaged with the Nigerian authorities and stands ready to provide policy advice and further support, as needed. Following the Executive Board’s discussion of Nigeria request, the deputy managing director and acting chair, Mr. Mitsuhiro Furusawa, said that “the COVID-19 outbreak – magnified by the sharp fall in international oil prices and reduced global demand for oil products -is severely impacting economic activity in Nigeria.” He noted that the shocks had created large external and financing needs for 2020,noting that additional declines in oil prices and more protracted containment measures would seriously affect the real and financial sectors and strain the country’s financing. “The authorities’ immediate actions to respond to the crisis are welcome. The short-term focus on fiscal accommodation would allow for higher health spending and help alleviate the impact of the crisis on households and businesses. Steps taken toward a more unified and flexible exchange rate, are also important and unification of the exchange rate should be expedited. “Once the COVID-19 crisis passes, the focus should remain on medium-term macroeconomic stability, with revenue-based fiscal consolidation essential to keep Nigeria’s debt sustainable and create fiscal space for priority spending. Implementation of the reform priorities under the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, particularly on power and governance, remains crucial to boosting growth over the medium -term. “The emergency financing under the RFI will provide much needed liquidity support to respond to the urgent BOP needs. Additional assistance from development partners will be required to support the government’s efforts and close the large financing gap,” IMF stated. It stressed that the implementation of proper governance arrangements- including through the publication and independent audit of crisis-mitigating spending and procurement processes – is crucial to ensure emergency funds are used for their intended purposes. Germany Gives Nigeria €22.4m Debt Relief Meanwhile, the Republic of Germany has granted Nigeria a debt relief of €22.4 million (N8.9 billion). The offer was prompted by the outbreak of the coronavirus disease. This was disclosed by German government yesterday, which said that it had successfully campaigned in the G-20 Group of countries and the Paris Club group of creditor countries in favour of a debt moratorium for nations heavily affected by the economic impact of COVID-19. In a statement it issued on the debt relief, the German government said: “In 2020, the German treasury relieves Nigeria of debt repayments amounting to €22.4 million (N8.9billion). This comes in addition to Germany’s support to the COVID-19 response on a global level and the support provided by the European Union (EU) to partner countries in Africa worth €3.25 billion (N1.3 trillion). “On April 27, Germany pledged €300 million (N120billion) to the global humanitarian response plan launched by the United Nations (UN) to fight COVID-19,” the statement read. Germany also pledged €12 million (N4.8billion) in additional support for the West Africa Health Organisation, the regional health institution of the Economic Community of west African States (ECOWAS).   