… We’ll Never Serve In Wike’s Govt -APC Chieftains Immediate-past senator representing Rivers South-East district in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, has advised Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, to explore back lines of communication to settle political scores with the Federal Government of Nigeria instead of being confrontational. This is as two chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chris Finebone and Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, have described the Wike-led administration in Rivers State as leprous, with a vow not to serve the government. Abe, who spoke in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt, said now is not the time to settle issues of supremacy between elected and unelected functionaries of government. He said: “I want to use this opportunity to publicly appeal to the Rivers State government to immediately seek and secure back channel lines of communication, and resolve any outstanding issues with the federal government through dialogue. “Wisdom is not weakness, it is one thing to have a political dispute with an individual whose attitude and conduct a lot of people may not approve of, but it is a different matter for sub national entity like Rivers state to challenge the sovereignty of Nigeria at this time when we should all be working together to combat an unseen but deadly enemy.
“I had earlier stated my determination not to be party to any action that will politicize our ability to confront the corona virus pandemic as a people and I maintain that position.” Meanwhile, two APC chieftains, Chris Finebone and Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, have said they will never accept anything under the Wike-led administration in the state. The duo, in a statement signed by Finebone, said: “However, I feel sad that the governor climbed down from the high office of governor to engage in name-calling and insult. “The governor did not need to have taken it personal with me and Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze by referring to Chief Eze as that ‘Ibo boy’. In Africa, respect is given to age and I am sure that Chief Eze is years older than the governor. “In any case, I and Chief Eze never, directly or indirectly under any circumstances, canvassed, solicited or ever will accept anything under the leprous Wike government or his party in Rivers State.”