Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has ordered that, Alhaji Musa Bashar (Rahamaniyya) be stopped from entering the state for fear of covid-19 suspect in the family. Prior to the development, one of  Alhaji Bashar’s sons’, Abubakar that recently returned from Dubai had tested positive to covid-19. The governor took the action on realizing that Alhaji Bashar and his family were heading to Sokoto for the Ramadan fast yesterday  after being asked to postpone his coming into the state by Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal twice. Reacting to the development, Tambuwal directed all security formations in the state to ensure that Alhaji Bashar whose son has been diagnosed positive for COVID-19 not to be allowed to enter the state. Tambuwal who spoke after receiving the report of the advisory committee on the state-sponsored Ramadan Feeding Programme (RFP) at Government House added that, he spoke with Bashar twice. “When I received a report that Alhaji Musa Bashar (aka Rahmaniyya), whose son Abubakar had just returned from Dubai, United Arab Emirate (UAE), and was infected by the deadly virus, I advised him not to come to Sokoto. “I spoke with him on telephone twice pleading that he should not come to the state. But he told me that he has a pass to come. I have therefore directed the security operatives to be vigilant. They should arrest him and return him to Abuja immediately,” Tambuwal directed. Visibly worried by the insistence of the affected indigene seeking to breach the closure of the state border, Tambuwal appealed to all Islamic scholars in the state and other stakeholders to  prevail on Alhaji Musa Bashar, who is also the father of Abdulrahman Musa Bashar, an Abuja based businessman to stay away from the state. In his reassurance, Tambuwal emphasized that COVID-19 is real and no stone should be left unturned in ensuring that the disease does not enter the state. He applauded the work of the advisory committee on Ramadan feeding and prayed that Allah shall reward the members. While assuring that the state government will ensure that the suggestions made in the report enhances the delivery of the feeding programme in line with the COVID-19 prevention guidelines, Tambuwal appealed to all to be vigilant and promptly report any returnee into the state.         