Ekiti State Government has said it is considering downward review of 2020 Budget of the state in line with current realities. The decision to review the budget was taken at the State Executive Council meeting held via video conferencing, chaired by Governor Kayode Fayemi with all other members of the Council in attendance. At the meeting, the transmission of a draft Supplementary Budget to the Ekiti State House of Assembly was approved by the council. The review was sought to align with the current realities of the economic conditions of the State, and the country as a whole. Fayemi had in November last year presented 2020 Appropriation Bill christened, “Budget of Deliverables” to the State House of Assembly. The size of the Budget is N124,724,869,355.95 which made up of N53, 538,093,806.59 and N71,186,775,549.36 as Capital and Recurrent Expenditure respectively. “considering that the Budget 2020 was based on an oil price benchmark of $57 per barrel, with the current global price of oil hovering between $20-$35 per barrel, it was wise for the State to adjust the budget based on a benchmark of $25 per barrel”. Briefing the Executive Council on the adjustments required to be made, the Commissioner for Budget and Economic Planning, assured the Council members that salaries of the Ekiti State workforce would not be affected, and status quo will be maintained in that regard. “Also approved for transmission to the Ekiti State House of Assembly, was the Public Finance Management Bill presented by the Commissioner for Finance, being a requirement for Ekiti State Government to ensure a better performance under the Federal Government’s Fiscal Sustainability Plan (FSP), and the World Bank’s State Fiscal Transparency Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) programme. “Ekiti State Government, like all other States in the Federation, is expected to establish a Legal Framework for Public Finance Management in the State, by enacting a law to be known as “Ekiti State Public Finance Management Law 2020”. “The objective of the law is to stabilise the macroeconomic situation of the State, by controlling the State’s fiscal aggregates, such as, State Government’s expenditure, revenue, and debt”. Memoranda were tabled and discussed, and the usual modus operandi of the Executive Council meetings were followed, save for the physical presence of the members. According to Governor Fayemi, all subsequent Executive Council meetings will be held virtually, until given the assurance that the threat of the COVID-19 scourge is defeated.