Nigerian Army 81 division on Thursday said they have arrested thirteen fake soldiers who specialized in using military uniform to commit various offences in Lagos State. The suspects were paraded on Thursday before the Journalist at the Nigerian Army 81 division headquarters in Lagos. While parading the suspect, the General Commanding Officer, Nigerian Army 81 division, Major General, Olu Irefin, said this is the third time on a role that they are having this sets of imposters. He said, ‘’I think one  thing the lockdown has done for Lagos State is that our operation check me  that is initially meant to check our soldiers breaking the law is yielding more result than what we planned for. “Today, we have thirteen imposters that are paraded before you with different ranks from Lieutenant Colonel, Major, Captain and others were arrested at different locations for various offences. “You will be shocked at which the level they are impersonating,  both the Lieutenant and the Major have a photo frame they use to deceiving members of public and when you check their internet profile or page they looked real as military personnel. “They have used provost letter headed papers to applied for visa but unfortunately they took a wrong channel of applying because we don’t do it directly for military to apply visa.’’ According to him that is the problem they are having in Lagos, adding that when the criminals create problem within Lagos and Ogun states they will claim the heinous acts were done by Nigerian Army. “I want to use this medium to appeal to law abiding citizens and other security agents that on any occasion when they see soldiers they should ask for their Identification Card (I.D) and where they doubt they should make contact and we will make arrest. “All these arrests you see were based on information and operation check me that is currently on -going and we will continue to do this operation to clean Lagos and its environs of this kind of hooligans.” The suspect were identified as Ebenezer Adeleke, Afolabi  Hassan, Allen Afolabi, Daramola Olamide, Akpan Joel, Eze David, Frank Eze, Joseph Okere, Ahmed Ameh and Akpan Emmanuel. In a confessional statement by one of the suspect, Afolabi Hassan, 45 year who lives in 19 Clem road, Ojokoro, Lagos, he said he was arrested by a team of soldiers in Abule Egba area where he lived.