Older persons in the country, under the auspices of Coalition of Societies for the Rights of Older Persons in Nigeria (COSROPIN), have called on the federal government to provide a minimum of N52.9 billion or N96.1 billion as special security package for older citizens, as palliative for COVID-19. President of the coalition, Senator Eze Ajoku, who made the call during a press briefing in Abuja, explained that going by the current pay out of N20, 000 for two months, government needs to provide N52.9 billion. Ajoku added however that if the original assumption that there are 1,091 older persons in each political ward in the country is accepted, then for the regular N10, 000 conditional cash transfer, government would require N96.1 billion to support all older persons in Nigeria on direct payment. He stated that to ensure that each benefit is delivered directly to each older person in the communities, government should sought the assistance of local government area counselors, working with the town union executives and community chiefs/leaders to enumerate and deliver the incentives.  The coalition president also observed that many older persons in the country are not on the list of the conditional cash transfer programme as currently constituted, just as he appealed for a revisit of the list and for government to make provisions, earmarked specifically for the older persons in Nigeria. Ajoku called on President Muhammadu Buhari to make the wearing of mask by all Nigerians mandatory, to help reduce person-to-person transmission of the deadly coronavirus. He noted that with mask, small and large dropping from infected people are minimized on surfaces or direct contact with people, while the tendency to touch the mouth and the nose regularly is also reduced. “The government should provide quality masks or people should be encouraged and taught how to dispose them to avoid being a further source of infection. Currently, many people are wearing self-made masks from good cotton materials. This is commendable. With the current cooperation of government with media houses, as part of their social responsibility, media houses should lead in this campaign on the use of masks. By this, very mobile young people will no longer easily infect the older persons at home,” he added. 