In this interview with the Chairman, Association of Telecommunication Companies of Nigeria (ALTON), Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, he addresses critical issues affecting the growth of the telecom industry. CHIMA AKWAJA brings the excerpts. All the major MNOs have launched 4G LTE. Can you tell Nigerians what has changed between 3G and 4G? How are your members going with their 4G expansion across the nation? Put simply, 3G and 4G represent the third and fourth generations of mobile broadband Internet. The most obvious change between 3G and 4G is that 4G connection will be faster and offer more coverage than a 3G one. As more and more users are constantly using their gadgets to connect to the Internet and stay online for very long periods of time, it becomes increasingly important to improve the quality of that service which underpins everyday life. Most providers have introduced 4G but we do not yet have coverage across the country. Smaller towns are still covered only by 3G: therefore there is more work to be done in investment to further infrastructure development across the country.  Have your members made further capital investments to expand improved network capacity? A lot of capital investment is being made. ALTON and its members are taking the necessary steps to improve Nigeria’s broadband penetration. As more people and things go online, continued investment in communication networks is needed to ensure that connections and transfers of data between connected devices can take place quickly. Similarly, as connected devices become widespread in critical sectors such as health or the economy, the safe and reliable functioning of related systems will depend on the reliability of communication networks. Currently, Nigeria plans to invest N265 billion ($732 million) to obtain an additional 30,000 kilometres of fibre that will be spread across the 774 local governments in the country. In a bid to support this agenda and strengthen networks and systems across the country, many of our operators have invested considerable resources to bridging this gap. For example, MTN Group has committed $1.6 billion to deepen penetration. Investment in next-generation communication networks such as fibre is critical. By bringing fibre physically closer to the end-user, whether a business or a residence, Internet speed increases across all technologies.  You have been a strident advocate for the criminalisation of vandalism with the call for the President of Nigeria to proclaim Telecom Infrastructure as Critical National Infrastructure (CNI). Has the present government been receptive of this and what efforts are being made to see that telecom infrastructure is protected? As strident advocates pushing forth the Critical National Infrastructure bill, the Nigerian Government has identified the crucial nature of telecommunications, and enhanced discourse around other challenges could see policy adjustments brought to the table. We must commend the efforts of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami to ensure maximum protection of telecom infrastructures. The Minister has disclosed that plans are underway to provide Critical National Infrastructure (CNI) protection to ensure maximum protection of telecoms infrastructure. Ahead of that Order, plans are set for the police authorities to provide surveillance to key telecom facilities. As Nigeria strives to become a more critical competitor in today’s global digital economy; we must begin to take more seriously the need to safeguard the infrastructure required to create jobs, increase productivity, improve our quality of life and create sustainable economic growth. As concerned Nigerians, we must continue to call on the government to accord the industry the necessary protections to ensure that we never again need to fear the disastrous consequences occasioned by deliberate intrusion with our telecommunication infrastructure.  Has the war on insurgency and banditry in some parts of the country had any negative impacts on the operations of your members and the development of the telecom sector in general? The traditional threats to the integrity of telecom infrastructure, including base stations and fibre cables have been vandalism, accidental damage due to road construction and maintenance work, and natural disasters such as flooding. However, targeted attacks on this critical infrastructure by members of insurgency groups – Boko Haram in particular – is now a major threat to the operation and development of the sector. Attacks on telecom infrastructure lead to network outages and poor services delivery, which manifest in the form of increased dropped call rates, poor connections and lack of voice clarity. Apart from voice calls, data services are also impaired such that the use of modems to browse the internet will not be effective. This disruptive effect cascades through the entire national system (such as banking services) that rely on voice calls and data services provided by the telecom sector. Furthermore, network operators end up spending money initially earmarked for network expansion and optimising existing infrastructure on replacing the damaged facilities. The war on insurgency and banditry, especially in North-eastern Nigeria, also affects Foreign Direct Investment into the telecommunication sector.  A few weeks ago, the Minister of Communications directed the NCC to revise the SIM Card Policy and he made some suggestions. What are your views on it? Several reasons were given for this advisory opinion and I’m sure at the appropriate time the regulator will direct on how the industry will proceed in that regard.  How have your members benefited from the USPF to take telecom infrastructure to rural areas? What charges do you propose in accessing the Fund? To a very limited extent, a school of thought is of the view that we would require telecom intervention fund, in the form of low-interest fund accessible by willing operators, and I think it is a conversation we must have as an industry that is so capital intensive with continuous need for funding and investments.  In February, Telcos embedded 7.5 percent VAT into voice call and short message service (SMS) charges. Was it the right thing to do bearing in mind that telecom subscribers often complain of exorbitant charges from their service providers? VAT is statutory and as an industry, we are merely collection agents for Government, VAT is an added tax by the government on our tariff, we collect the VAT and remit to government as required by law. Since the new finance bill was passed into law and government directed that it be reviewed effective 1st February, our members as responsible corporate citizens and are always in full compliance with the provisions of law, hence our compliance with the new Finance Act and the provisions therein.  Recently, the border closure impacted telcos supply of diesel near border sites. Has the Nigerian Customs Service lifted the blockade on tanker supplies to your members’ border sites? As you may be aware, the Customs and Excise department issued a directive that no fuel should be supplied to 20km radius of the border, this has significantly affected access to refuelling telecom sites in the fringes of the border, not only in the North East but all across the country particularly in states with border towns. We are thankful to the Honourable Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, for his continuous intervention on these and many other issues affecting our sector and look forward to his continued engagements with us and for us.