The Minister of State, FCT, Hajia Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu has applauded NYSC Corps Members for their skills in contributing to the effort to combat the Coronavirus at a time like this. The minister made this known, when the NYSC, FCT Coordinator, Hajia Walida Siddique Isa led some corps members on a visit to present Face Masks, Liquid Soads and Hand Sanitizers made by Corps Members to the minister. The minister said, “We are indeed very proud of our Corps Members, we appreciate this initiative that during this stay at home you have made us proud in your thoughtfulness to apply the acquired skills you have learnt. The essence of learning is what you have shown, they said indeed, necessity is the mother of invention; you have been able to show us today that the skills you acquired are not lost. You did not only stop there, you also took cognizance of the less privilege and vulnerable for the fact that they will not be able to afford some of these basic items. I am also proud that our corps members have produced NYSC branded face masks, we are indeed proud of you and we will do the needful to ensure that you produce more.” Earlier, a Corps member, Dr. Vincent Emmanuel Chidera used the opportunity to appreciate the Minister for the opportunity to present to the ministry the little effort by Corps members in contributing to the FCT effort to combat the Covid 19 in the federal capital territory. “We want to let you know that we have the requisite skill as a result of the training that the corps members have undergone through the Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurial Development (SAED) of the NYSC in producing liquid soaps and hand sanitizers that could be used in the regular washing of hands and the Hand sanitizer that could also be used to prevent contacting and spread of the virus. “As we present to you this little token we also want to say, the little encounter we had in our local communities we realized that the communities are at risk with the spread of the virus because most of them cannot afford these materials which have been prescribed by the NCDC as preventive measures for COVID 19, so we are making ourselves available for any further production of these materials free of charge.”  