A recent report by Yamashita has showed that astaxanthin is 100 times more potent in its antioxidant activity as compared to Vitamin E in strengthening the immune system. The report was published amidst studies that leading a healthier lifestyle, being more physically active, eating cleaner and supplementing the body with fortified foods helps strengthen the immune system. However, with the COVID-19 pandemic now raging across the world, it comes as no surprise that the concern to guard against this disease and indeed many others is at an all-time high. Earlier, the World Health Organisation (WHO) tracked close to a whopping 1.8 million cases all over the world, with the disease taking more than 111,000 lives. The study also shows that astaxanthin helps against lipid peroxidation which leads to cell damage. A study by Lawson Ekpe, Kenneth Inaku and Victor Ekpe also noted that it is 6,000 more effective than Vitamin C. In 1993, a study by Dr Adrianne Bendich showed that antioxidants such as vitamins A, C and E (or beta-carotene) safely enhance the immune system’s functions. Bendich had noted a person who has high levels of free radicals due to exposure to excessive ultraviolet light, or those who smoke, would need the supplementation. Astaxanthin, often called the “king of carotenoids”, is a naturally occurring blood-red pigment extracted from hematococcus pluvialis freshwater microalgae. So, like Dr Bendich reported, astaxanthin as a powerful antioxidant enhances the body’s antioxidant defence. The new study noted that it helps to balance and strengthen the immune system, improving the body’s ability to defend itself and suppress overactive immune responses that produce excessive inflammation. Astaxanthin helps alleviate the excessive immune response by increasing the number of antibody producing cells, then shielding the immune cells from oxidation and damage,” the study said. Other numerous studies have also shown that natural astaxanthin has anti-inflammatory properties and maintains a balanced, normal inflammatory reaction, and this works to decrease chronic inflammation on healthy tissues. Astaxanthin occurs as a natural reddish pink pigment and is now extracted from the haematococcus pluvialis microalgae, which makes it a wholly natural vegetarian source. It also occurs as a natural reddish pink pigment and extracted from the haematococcus pluvialis microalgae, which makes it a wholly natural vegetarian. Just last month, a team of scientists testing blood samples from a COVID-19 patient hospitalised with moderate symptoms managed (for the first time) to map the body’s general immune response to the new disease. Usually man’s first line of defence is a physical barrier – the skin. Much like the walls of a fort built to withstand attacks from enemy forces, the skin safeguards against environmental microbes, providing a primary defence against any infection. “That is why we need to strengthen this first layer of defence by wearing face masks and surgical gloves, washing our hands with soap, and using hand sanitisers, the studies stated. This microalgae forms a nutritional source for the marine food chain that includes salmons, crabs and shrimps, and appears on their bodies as a red-orange pigmentation. Initially, it was used as a commercial food additive in the aquaculture industry. Its potent antioxidant and broad anti-inflammatory properties were later on discovered, which led to more research. Before long astaxanthin became accepted as a functional food ingredient. With growing evidence of clinical studies, astaxanthin is proven to show many beneficial applications in health just in the past two decades. Then, research by Eiji Yamashita concluded that astaxanthin should be considered “a medical food” shortly. Also a study conducted by Jean Soon Park, Jong Hee Chyun, Yoo Kyung Kim, Larry L. Line and Boon P. Chew, involving women with an average age of 21.5 years, showed that dietary astaxanthin enhances immune response while lowering oxidative damage to the DNA and inflammation. With the potential for the use of astaxanthin is still expanding, even British magazine Food & Drink Technology noted in its Oct 2019 issue that “astaxanthin is experiencing huge growth in European markets as well as in Asia.”