President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday condemned the latest attacks by bandits in three local governments areas  in Katsina State that left 47 persons dead. In a reaction to the incident, the president said that he was deeply saddened by the latest development and called on Nigerians not to despair because his “administration is ever determined to defeat and crush these criminal elements taking advantage of the lockdown to attack their victims.” President Buhari, who spoke through his media aide, Garba Shehu said that he would not tolerate “this large scale killing of innocent people by the bandits, adding that ”in line with my commitment to security of the people, these attacks will be met with decisive force.” The president, therefore, directed the security agencies not to rest on their oars or lower their guard which will create a vacuum for the bandits to strike. While extending his sympathies to the families of the victims, Buhari called on the people to show more vigilance by reporting the activities of criminal elements in their midst. Earlier, the authorities of the state police command had said that bandits’ attacks on some communities in Dutsi-ma, Danmusa and Safana local government areas had claimed 29 lives. The police command’s spokesman, SP Gambo Isa, who disclosed this yesterday, said that a group of “Yan Sakai” attacked Fulani settlements at Danmusa which led to reprisal by the bandits numbering over 300 on motorcycles from one of the forests. Isa said that they first attacked Kuyaji village where 14 persons were killed and Kuranchi Dutsin-ma local government area with 11 residents also killed. His words: “At Makaurachi and Danya village in Safana local government area, they also killed 15 and four persons respectively. Total number of persons killed is 29.” The police spokesman further explained that the state commissioner of police had deployed operatives to the affected locations, including personnel from the police, military and even aircraft by the Nigerian Air Force to engage the bandits and had returned normalcy to the areas. According to information gathered in Safana, Dutsin-ma and Danmusa councils, the bandits drew the first blood when they rustled cattle in those villages on Friday night where the residents resisted them by burning some Fulani settlements, chased their remnants from the villages to the forest. It was learnt that when the bandits in the forest heard about their kinsmen’s plights, they assembled about 300 of them and attacked the Hausa farmers. As of the time of filing this report, sources said that the death toll had risen to 47.