Shareholders of FCMB Group Plc have approved a dividend of N2.77 billion, translating to 14 kobo per share for the financial year ended December 31, 2019. Also, the shareholders applauded the financial institution for its resilience, dynamism and impressive performance recorded last year despite the challenging operating environment. The shareholders gave the commendation at the seventh Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Group held in Lagos. The AGM was held by proxy, following the outbreak of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, and streamed live to shareholders of the financial institution who were unable to physically attend due to the lockdown imposed by the government. The decision to hold the AGM by proxy was to avoid unnecessary physical contact among attendees and in line with the social distancing protocol to avoid the spread of the pandemic. Presenting the report for the year ended December 31, 2019, the chairman of FCMB Group, Mr Oladipupo Jadesimi stated that all the three business groups within FCMB Group reported improved performances, in terms of higher earnings and profits, compared to what was achieved in 2018. He expressed gratitude to shareholders for joining the meeting as well as their unflinching support, which has made FCMB to wax stronger, saying that “The board of directors have adopted a policy that seeks to provide investors with a stable and sustainable form of capital distribution, with consideration given to the growth and capital requirements of the business, thereby maximising long-term share value for shareholders.” Also speaking, the Group chief executive of FCMB Group, Mr Ladi Balogun, said, “Our businesses continue to improve with growth in other key indicators, such as loans and advances, deposits and Assets Under Management (AUM), which grew by 13.1 per cent, 14.7 per cent and 28.3 per cent, respectively. Our customer base also grew by 27.5 per cent across the Group from 5.5 million to seven million. Overall customer satisfaction has shown positive trends, with a net promoter score of 31 in Banking and 23 in Asset Management.” Balogun further reported that, “The Commercial and Retail Banking Group grew its profit by 20 per cent driven by improved performance in our consumer finance business, as we continue to expand our digital products offerings and channels. Commercial and Retail Banking remains the largest contributor to the Group’s profits with 92 per cent. Assets managed by our Asset and Wealth Management businesses increased by over 28 per cent to over N403 billion at the end of the year.” He assured that 2020 will see a number of the financial institution’s digital initiatives coming of age, adding that these are expected to be substantial. Going by the results, FCMB Group’s gross revenue in 2019 increased to N188 billion compared to N177.2 billion in 2018. The strong performance also manifested in profit before tax, which rose by nine per cent to N20.1 billion. FCMB Group is a holding company divided along three business groups; Commercial and Retail Banking , Corporate and Investment Banking as well as Asset and Wealth Management.