The 14-day lockdown aimed at curtailing the spread of COVID-19 is biting hard on many Nigerians. However, for internally displaced persons who were sacked out of their homes by insurgents, the experience is rather excruciating. Chika Mefor-Nwachukwu visited an IDP camp in Abuja and writes. “We heard on the radio that government was sharing money and food, but we haven’t seen anything,” these were the words of Mallam Ali Gujige, an internally displaced person in Abuja. Gujige is one of the many internally displaced persons (IDPs) who fled Bama in Borno State to Abuja, after their local government fell to Boko Haram. They came in search of a new lease of life. They were fortunate to have discovered a partially-completed building in Durumi II, and have been staying there since 2014. Ali and his kinsmen were not among those captured in the federal government’s palliative scheme which includes conditional cash transfer and distribution of foodstuffs and other basic necessities, geared towards alleviating the sufferings of vulnerable Nigerians during the 14-days lockdown aimed at curtailing the spread of the novel COVID-19. The father of eight narrated how he had severally submitted the list of families in the camp to the Chief of Durumi, adding that they have however, not been captured in the list of beneficiaries. “Government has not given us anything. I wrote down our names and gave it to the chief but we didn’t get anything. I heard that it was shared, but I didn’t get. There was a time that we heard that the government will be coming, we went to the place where they said we will get the money, but nobody came,” he added sadly. The camp which is made up of about 102 persons including orphaned children, and widows and widowers, survives from the meagre resources and income of the young men who usually go out on a daily basis to eke out a living. Gujige who is the chairman of the camp, revealed that even before the COVID pandemic and the lockdown, recent directives by the government such as the ban on the use of tricycles (popularly known as Keke) in the Abuja city centre, did jeopardize their means of livelihood. “Many of our youths were driving Keke, and they were able to remit money to the people who owned the Keke, and at the same time, helped us in the camp. But since the ban, they have been rendered jobless. The owners of the Keke collected them, since they could not remit enough money as they used to,” Gujige lamented. He added that many of them have resorted to working as labourers at building sites, and he said that such jobs were not easy to come by. And on how the camp dwellers have been coping with the Covid-19 pandemic, the camp chairman stated that they were observing the best hygiene practices they could muster which was majorly washing of hands and social distancing. “I heard on the radio that we should not touch ourselves or greet anybody. We should buy sanitizers, wash our hands and cover our nose. For now, we have locked our gates so nobody passes. Only one person goes the market to buy things, and if the person comes back, he washes his hands. I always tell my children to wash their hands,” he said. But the constant washing of hands often proves burdensome to the camp dwellers as lack of water is a major challenge to them. “We don’t have light or water. We often go to beg for water from a building at the back of this building. Our wives and children go to fetch the water daily,” he revealed. Ali who lamented that their fate in the makeshift accommodation was hanging in the lurch as the owner has severally threatened to eject them, pleaded on government to intervene and save them from imminent homelessness. “I have tried severally to draw government’s attention to our camp, but it is to no avail. I have tried to meet with the senator representing us but there was nobody to help me achieve that. If I will be able to see them, I will have the opportunity to tell them about my people here. Government does not recognise this camp. Many people have come, I don’t know where they are from. They take our statistics and give us high hope, but they never come back,” he said in a bewildered tone. Narrating how he came about the building, Ali stated that after he was able to narrowly escape the Boko Haram onslaught, he arrived Abuja and noticed the building, and got approval from the former owner to stay. He added that after he had settled down, his family, relations and townsmen who were stranded in Cameroon came over to join him in the building. “Boko Haram killed our chief, they slaughtered him. When the attack was too much, I ran into Cameroon. I stayed there, but I wasn’t happy there, so I entered back into Nigeria through Banki. I crossed to Kumshe where I was caught by the dreaded group. They were all armed. It was only God that helped me escape. I left my family in Cameroon and came here. When I have secured here, my wife, came with my children, and my towns people started coming too,” he reminisced with sadness. He lamented that their houses were razed down, their crops destroyed and their cattle stolen by Boko Haram, and added that his community in Bama has become a shadow of itself. Basiru lamented that the situation has become even harder for him because he was yet to recover from a sickness which befell him months back when he was in Lagos looking for greener pastures. The 28-year old man added that his dream of seeking education and bettering his life was cut short when he was bundled back to his elder brother in the camp, and who has been taking care of him with the little money he gets from his menial job. For Maimunat Abubakar, a 50-year-old mother of one, the situation in the camp is worrisome especially as the children sometimes do not have anything to eat. “Children are suffering here because there is no food, our men do not have work. The men have been providing for us even with the little job like labouring. They give us money for food. But now, there are no jobs. Everyone has been told to stay at home. Stay at home with no food? “she queried. Maimunat who is a widow, revealed that she fried Akara (bean cake) outside the camp, but that the patronage reduced drastically because of the lockdown. “I hardly can sell one Mudu of beans now. It is rather sad because it is what I was able to get from my sales that I use to cater for myself and some of the families, as many of the women in the camp are also not working,” she lamented. She made an excuse for the women in the camp who were not working as she stated that they were not able to find any jobs, and added that even if there were any jobs for them to do, they would have to take permission from their husbands before embarking on such jobs. “You know culture and tradition; the men do not allow their women to work. They chose to work and provide for them. Before I came to Abuja, I wasn’t doing anything. My husband who died here years ago was catering for me,” she said. Maimunat, like the many others in the camp, prayed that the government will remember them before they get killed by hunger, rather than the Coronavirus. It could be recalled that the federal government, through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, had announced the disbursement of N20,000 Conditional Cash Transfer to each of the indigent households in the FCT. There has also been report that 70,000 Metric tons of assorted grains would be distributed to the most vulnerable Nigerians at this critical time of lockdown, and the internally displaced persons in the Durumi camp are wondering if the impact of such intervention will be felt across board so that they too will smile at the end of the day.