In addition to the palliative measures that have already been put in place, senior research analyst at FXTM, Lukman Otunuga has said there is need for both the fiscal and monetary authorities to become more aggressive in their responses in order to keep the confidence of foreign investors in the country. Otunuga in an emailed note yesterday said aggressive monetary policy and strong fiscal responses must be put in place to cushion the damage inflicted by the coronavirus outbreak in Nigeria. According to him, such steps would increase confidence for foreign portfolio investors’ to keep investing in Nigeria’s financial instruments and position the economy on the path to recovery after the pandemic is over. The Central Bank of Nigeria in response to the Covid-19 pandemic in the country had launched more than N3 trillion stimulus package as the presidency announced palliative measures for small businesses and low income households. President Buhari had approved a N10 billion grant to the epicentre Lagos to fight the outbreak in the region and a five-billion-Naira grant to support the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control. Otunuga noted that the coronavirus pandemic is expected to have an unprecedented impact on the Nigerian economy. To this end he said the CBN may be forced to cut interest rates in the second half of the year if global conditions fail to improve. “Fiscal measures may need support from an IMF loan after the fund expressed concerns over the global landscape and the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on African countries, extending emergency financing of up to $50 billion.” Noting that the disease represents a major threat to the economy because of plummeting Oil prices and close trading ties with China, he said “the emergency should be a wakeup call for Nigeria to reduce its dependence on the Oil industry in order to weather future storms and black swan events. “This was the direction taken by the CBN during its Growth 2.0 roundtable. Along with an initiative to depreciate the rate of foreign exchange sales to foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) to roughly N380, the reinvigorated drive towards diversification may help to stimulate interest in Nigeria’s financial instruments.” He added that oil prices could fall further than the 60 percent they already have since the beginning of the year. “The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimates that with each 10 percent fall in Oil prices, Oil exporting countries like Nigeria will see a 0.6 percent drop in GDP and an increase in fiscal deficits of 0.8 percent of GDP. Under the current circumstances, the federal government appears well aware after announcing a 10.6-trillion-Naira cut in the 2020 budget and a change in the benchmark Oil price from $50 to $30 per barrel.” 