As part of efforts to cushion the effects of the lockdown of Abuja, the nation’s capital, as well as Lagos and Ondo States, the federal government yesterday commenced conditional cash transfer of monthly stipend of N5,000 each to poor and vulnerable Nigerians in the areas. Implementing President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive on palliatives for the vulnerable, minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq said the intervention was to reduce the suffering people go through, especially the less privileged and the vulnerable, in the society during the lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. The president, while announcing the lockdown of Abuja as well as Lagos and Ogun States in a live broadcast to the nation on COVID-19 last Sunday, approved two months cash transfer to vulnerable Nigerians, deployment of relief materials to citizens living in suburbs and satellite towns, and two months food rations for internally displaced persons. The minister noted yesterday that the federal government was fully aware that the lockdown and restriction of movement directed by the president as a proactive measures to combat the Covid-19 pandemic will affect so many Nigerians, especially the vulnerable population and therefore came up with this intervention programme to support families in their daily needs. She said the president has directed the ministry to pay the beneficiaries four months advance payment to ease their pain within the period of the lockdown. „This intervention is intended to cover over 5,000 beneficiaries in Kwali Area Council of the FCT and over 1million beneficiaries across the country, but we are starting from the FCT, Lagos and Ogun as the frontline states of this pandemic, and it will be carried out on monthly basis to assist the poor and vulnerable households in five states of the federation“, she stated. Farouq said that the CCT programme had been ongoing in the last six years and that President Buhari was determined to cater for the welfare of the less privileged, especially during this period the coronavirus pandemic is wreaking havoc. On his part, the national programme coordinator for the conditional cash transfer, Dr Sikaiye Temitope, explained that it was a long process that involved community members in identifying the poor and vulnerable. He said, “We have about 5,000 households in the FCT enrolled in the CCT programme. It is targeted at the poorest of the poor in Nigeria, whereby government pays N5,000 stipend to the poorest of the poor. Government has decided to pay each N20,000 to the beneficiaries, which covers a period of four months; in order to relieve the economic pressure on them. “The exercise will take place in all the states of the federation. We are starting with FCT, Lagos and Ogun, the three states that are currently under lockdown because of the COVID-19 outbreak in Nigeria. Therefore, this stipend will go a long way to support the families of the beneficiaries in their daily lives, especially at this time of the Coronavirus pandemic that is ravaging the world.” In the same vain, Dr Luka Make Ayuba, Head of FCT cash transfer, said that the conditional cash transfer was just one component of the social investment programme, hence there is a committee that is called community-based targets that goes to the communities and identify the poor and vulnerable households. Noting that the emphasis was on the poor and vulnerable household, he said the committee goes in conjunction with member of the community who knows the vulnerable people living the area. Meanwhile, one of the beneficiaries, Mrs Sarah Gadaga, who hails from Nasarawa State, said that the stipend will be of great help to her family of three and petty business, adding that its judicious use will help in cushioning the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak. She said, “I just received N20,000 from the federal government under the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. Under the conditional cash transfer programme, we are paid N5,000 per month. Since this year, we were unable to receive any stipend for reasons the ministry explained to us. However, the N20,000 covers the months of January, February, March and this April. “I have three children, so the money will be of great help to my family, especially at this period of staying at home because of the Coronavirus pandemic. I will also use part of the money to support my petty business once this pandemic is over. I am grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari for this intervention. He has just saved many lives”. In the same vein, President Buhari has approved 7,0000 metric tonnes of grains for distribution to the poor and vulnerable to cushion the effect of  the lockdown directive. The Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, disclosed this yesterday at a national briefing of the presidential task force (PTF) on Covid-19. The SGF said the first tranche will go to the frontline states affected by the lockdown: Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory. He added that President Buhari also approved limited exemptions for companies in the upstream sector to ensure steady gas supply for electricity. Mustapha said, “President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the release of 70, 000 Metric Tonnes of grains from the Strategic National Reserve to be distributed to the poor and vulnerable and those whose livelihood will be affected by the lockdown. “The first tranche of about 6, 000 metric tonnes would go to Lagos, Ogun and the FCT while the remaining will go to other front line states in the fight against COVID-19”. The SGF assured that bottlenecks will be eliminated following the development of an implementation guide which will subsequently be circulated widely. He explained: “You will recall that Mr President in his national broadcast announced a number of restrictions, particularly in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja. You will also recall that the PTF met with Security Chiefs to review the Status of Implementation as it affects compliance and enforcement. “We have received situation reports from the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Inter-State traffic across the Country as at Tuesday, 31st March 2020. Indications are that there was a reasonable level of compliance with the Presidential directive which has led to a great reduction of traffic on major highways. We have however received reports of challenges arising from the enforcement of the Presidential directives by security agents generally and in States where Governors have also imposed their own measures. “As we continue to dialogue to remove the bottlenecks, I am pleased to inform you that the PTF has developed an Implementation Guide and Protocols for the COVID-19 Lockdown Policy. This document will be widely circulated to all security agencies and will be discussed with sub-national entities for the purpose of building synergy in the fight against the virus”.    70% Infected Nigerians Are Men – Minister Meanwhile, data released by the federal government of Nigerians infected by coronavirus has shown that 70 per cent of those infested by the pandemic are men. This came as confirmed the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed cases of COVID-19 rose from 139 to 174 yesterday. The government also clarified that no rapid diagnostic tests offered in the open market has been validated by the World Health Organisation (WHO), saying that the results they give were unreliable. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who stated this during the presidential task force briefing on COVID-19 yesterday in Abuja, said, „You have to be tested in one of Nigeria‘s presently seven Covid-19 molecular laboratories to have valid results.“ Ehanire also noted that vaccines against COVID-19 were still a long way off, stressing that interventions such as social distancing and self-isolation are all that Nigerians need to curb the spread of the disease. Noting that men constitute 70 per cent of confirmed cases, the minister said, „As of today, the 1st of April 2020, Nigeria has recorded 139 confirmed COVID-19 cases. 82 are in Lagos, 28 in FCT, 8 in Oyo, 5 in Osun, 4 in Ogun, 3 in Kaduna,  2 each in  Bauchi,  Edo,  and Enugu and 1 each in Benue, Ekiti, and Rivers States. „A breakdown of the cases shows that 70% are male, while about 30% are female. The age range is mostly between 30 and 60 years. I must stress that both men and women of all ages can be infected. „Nine persons have been successfully treated and discharged from hospital and two deaths are on record from COVID-19. Both persons had serious underlying ailments which no doubt aggravated their conditions”. Ehanire called on certified public health Lab scientists, including retirees, to indicate readiness for duty by sending their mail to NCDC or using the call lines.  Confirmed Cases Hit 174 Meanwhile, Nigeria has confirmed 23 new cases of COVID19, bringing the total confirmed cases in the country to 174. According to NCDC, nine of the cases were reported in Lagos seven, in Abuja, five in Akwa Ibom, as well as one each in Kaduna and  Bauchi States. „As at 08:00pm 1st April, there are 174 confirmed cases of COVID19 reported in Nigeria. Nine have been discharged with two deaths“, the centre stated.  Court Fines, Orders Isolation Of 2 Egyptians For Violating Restriction Order Meanwhile, a magistrate court sitting in Ado Ekiti yesterday convicted no fewer than 12 persons, including two Egyptian nationals, for violating Ekiti State movement restriction order. The court found the duo of Mohammed Mustapha and Mahmud Ahmed guilty of the two-count charge preferred against them by the state government for violating the restriction order meant to curtail the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Their offence contravened the provisions of Ekiti State Coronavirus (Prevention of Infection) Regulations, 2020 made pursuant to Section 8 of the Quarantine Act, Cap Q2, LFN, 2004. According to charges one, the duo „on the 1st day of April, 2020 at Fajuyi Area within the Ado-Ekiti Magistrate District did violate the Provision of Regulation 2 (1) (b) punishable under Regulation 12 of the Provisions of Ekiti State Coronavirus (Prevention of Infection) Regulations, 2020 made pursuant to Section 8 of the Quarantine Act, Cap Q2, LFN, 2004”. Charge noted that the Egyptians “on about the 1st day of April 2020 at Fajuyi Area within Ado-Ekiti Magistrate District, did without lawful excuse drive Rav 4, Car contrary to and punishable under Section 202 of the Criminal Code Law, Cap C16, Laws of Ekiti State, 2012”. Mustapha and Mahmud were however fined N2,500 each on count one and count two, totaling N10,000. Delivering his judgment, the Chief Magistrate, Abdullamid Lawal, said both defendants are reasonably suspects and should be kept in mandatory isolation for 14 days. He said one of them, Mustapha, gave evidence in court that he came into the state yesterday morning from Ilorin, Kwara State. Others who were fined for acts of violations of the restriction order of the state government include two blood brothers, Oladapo Oyinlade and Matthew Oyinlade, for riding on a motorcycle during the stay-at-home order. They were ordered to pay N2,500 each on count one and N2,500 on count two, totalling N10,000.  Yobe, Kogi Top Govt Officials Donate 50% Of Salaries, Meanwhile, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State; his deputy, Idi Barde Gubana, and the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Ahmed Lawan Mirwa, have donated 50 per cent of their basic salaries to the state’s COVID-19 support fund to combat the coronavirus pandemic in the state. Others who donated 50 per cent of their basic salaries in the state include members of the State Executive Council (SEC), the secretary to the state government (SSG), Head of Service and the chief of staff to the governor. A statement by the commissioner for Home Affairs, Information and Culture, Hon Abdullahi Bego, noted that all permanent secretaries, chief executives of boards and parastatals, permanent members of commissions, including the Local Government Service Commission, House of Assembly Service Commission and Judicial Service Commission have also donated to the fund. Bego, who is the state’s COVID-19 resource mobilisation sub-committee secretary, added that the committee under the leadership of the commissioner for Humanitarian Affairs and Disaster Management, Dr Abubakar Garba Iliya, would deliver on its mandate. Heads of the Teaching Service Board, Science and Technical Schools Board, State Independent Electoral Commission, Fiscal Responsibility Board, Arabic and Islamic Education Board, Bureau For Public Procurement, Civil Service Commission, and the Pilgrims Welfare Commission, as well as the directors of Personnel Management (DPMs) who are currently in charge of the 17 local government councils are also expected to donate 50 per cent of their basic salaries to prevent outbreak of the virus in the state. LEADERSHIP learnt that apart from the Speaker, his deputy, Mohammed Auwal Isa and 22 other members of the state legislature have also supported the efforts of the state government by donating 50 per cent of their basic salaries to the COVID-19 Fund. The donation would be paid into Yobe State COVID-19 support account Number: 1022751510, with UBA. In the same vein, political office holders in Kogi State have donated part of their March salaries to the state‘s COVID-19 account to tackle the coronavirus scourge in the state. Secretary to the State Government, Dr Ayoade Folashade Arike, said the donation was a demonstration of the state government‘s commitment to defending the people against the deadly virus. On his part, the commissioner for Information and Communication, Evangelist Kingsley Fanwo, who had earlier donated foodstuffs, toiletries and medical consumables to the people of Mopamuro in the state, said the N1million was a token of their contribution to ensure the welfare of the people, especially at this trying time of the break-out of the Coronavirus Pandemic. He reiterated that the donations are mainly for the aged, because they are the ones most likely to be affected by the virus due to their relatively tired immune system. Fanwo also emphasized that Coronavirus was a serious challenge against the whole world, that it is no issue that should be taken political. He said the items are for all Mopamuro people and not for any group of persons or political parties. He said, „We need to concentrate on all, especially the aged people whose immunity cannot fight the virus. We understand the hardship the sit-at-home directive will inflict on the people; but it is a necessary measure to arrest the spread of the virus. „We will do more in the coming weeks. What we gave now is just to reassure you that we are with the Mopamuro people in this trying period.“  VSF To Commit N1bn, Says TY Danjuma Meanwhile, the chairman of the Victims Support Fund (VSF), Gen TY Danjuma (rtd), has said the Fund will provide N1billion worth of food and medicine for Internally Displaced Persons and other vulnerable groups around the country as part of its contribution to national efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. Danjuma, who stated this in Abuja while inaugurating the VSF taskforce on Covid-19, which is mandated to provide palliative measures to IDPs and other vulnerable groups, said the taskforce will provide N1billion worth of medical supplies, food, water and non-food items for IDPs and others who will face special challenges at this difficult time. He stated that the taskforce shall also work closely with all federal and state government organs and agencies saddled with the responsibility of providing direction and leadership in the fight against Covid-19, including the Presidential Taskforce on Covid-19 and all relevant MDAs. He said the Taskforce will also extend support to other frontline organizations working to curtail the spread of the coronavirus. Danjuma noted that the intervention had become necessary in view of the global devastation of the coronavirus pandemic and the huge human challenges it poses for the country.  He also urged the committee to embark on massive sensitization campaigns amongst vulnerable groups to inform and educate them on the best hygiene and sanitation practices in order to prevent further spread of the disease. Markets To Open Between 10:00am and 2:00pm Daily – FG The federal government has said that all markets in Lagos and Ogun States as well as the Federal Capital Territory where a lockdown was imposed would be allowed to open between 10:00 am and 2:00 pm daily. The national coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Aliyu Sani, disclosed this yesterday during a briefing by members of the taskforce. “For markets, only shops and stalls selling food and groceries shall be allowed to open to customers between the hours of 10:00 am and 2:00 pm,” he said. For supermarkets and food stores, their opening hours must be between 10:00 am and 4:00 pm, even as all owners and managers have been warned to screen staff and customers before entry. “On arrival, all staff must be screened for a high temperature and all those found to have a high body temperature above 38, will be denied entry and advised to seek immediate medical attention. All deliveries for supplies and products for these supermarkets must be made between the hours of 5:00 am and 9:00 am”, Sani added. He further stated that at any point in time, the total number of customers inside each store must not exceed a third of the store’s total capacity. After their closure at 4:00 pm, Sani urged shop owners to ensure that all shelves, aisles and stores are cleaned and disinfected and that by 6:00 pm, staffs are conveyed back to their respective homes. Ayade Bans Movement, Orders Use Of Nose Mask In C’River Meanwhile, following the proliferation of coronavirus in neighboring states, Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade, has imposed new restrictions on residents of the state, including the ban of movement and the use of nose mask. In a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Mr Christian Ita, the governor said no citizen or resident of the state will be allowed to leave home without a face mask from Friday 3rd, April 2020. He said failure to adhere to this directive will lead to the arrest and quarantine of the offenders for 14 days. The governor noted that the state garment factory has been mandated to produce face masks to be distributed free to citizens and residents alike to meet with the demand. The statement noted: “Those who for one reason or the other are unable to get masks from government before the new restrictions kick in are advised to purchase theirs from shops selling the item. All public gatherings remain banned; markets should remain closed except where foodstuff is sold. “All exit and entry points into the state are now completely shut. No human or vehicular movement will be allowed into the state under any disguise”.