Governor of Taraba State, Darius Ishaku has declared that with the confirmation of six COVID-19 cases, the lockdown of the state had become inevitable. Already the information disclosed by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has caused fear to grip the residents of the state. The NCDC had yesterday confirmed six cases of coronavirus in Taraba. Consequently, Governor Ishaku insisted that the two-week total lockdown in the state was not negotiable and called for total compliance from the people. In a statewide broadcast yesterday, the governor said that the six cases were from the travellers who were intercepted by the Action Committee On COVID 19 inaugurated by his administration to contain the spread of the disease. He said: “We all woke up this morning to the shocking news of six confirmed cases of Covid-19 by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, NCDC, from samples taken from persons already quarantined by the State Task Force on COVID-19 who are presently at the NYSC isolation centre, Sibre” “The persons are among 130 interstate travellers from Bauchi, Kano, Jigawa, Borno, Ogun and Lagos states intercepted at our borders. You will recall that the committee had earlier intercepted on two occasions 65 and 59 persons from Ogun State en-route to Adamawa State and were allowed to proceed amid tight security. “I therefore commend the proactive steps of the committee which led to the isolation and identification of the reported cases. “I wish to assure the good people of Taraba State that this is not a time for panic as Government is on top of the situation. Additional manpower and resources have been mobilized and deployed to trace contacts of all those that have tested positive to the corona virus, immediately. “It is quite unfortunate that the reported outbreak came about despite the robust proactive steps taken by my administration to prevent the virus from entering our dear State. “You will recall that immediately the index case was identified in the country, we took a number of preventive steps such as the closure of our land borders with neighbouring states as well as the international boundary with the Republic of Cameroon. We also closed temporarily places of worship, schools, markets and other public places that attract large crowds. “In addition, government had also rolled out intensive sensitization and advocacy programmes using our two religious bodies, traditional institutions as well as the media. “Fellow Tarabans, let me assure you that we are prepared, having already identified two treatment centres located at the State Specialist Hospital, Jalingo and the Federal Medical Centre also in Jalingo with the combined capacity to handle 22 cases. “In the meantime, we are in the process of completing a one hundred bed capacity isolation centre with the assistance of Access Bank. Tarabans should therefore be rest assured that their protection is paramount and government will do all within its powers to checkmate widespread of the virus. “The situation we have on our hands now demands strict adherence to preventive measures approved by the World Health Organisation endorsed by NCDC and adopted by my administration such as regular washing of hands, use of sanitizers, social distancing and avoidance of handshakes. These have proved globally as effective ways of checking the spread of the virus,” he said.  