The National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) has donated relief materials and food items to Persons of Concern (POC) in Oron Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State. Presenting the relief materials which included bags of rice and beans among other items to persons of concerns at the security village in Oron, the zonal coordinator of National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Mr. Efughi Innocent said the items was to cushion the effect of hardship on the people. He noted that the commission decided to touch the lives of the Persons of Concern in time where the country and the State in faced with serious hardship occasioned by the Corona Virus pandemic also known as COVID -19. Innocent charged the beneficiaries to make good use of the items even as he assured them that the commission will always visit them regularly. Receiving the delegation, the executive chairman of Oron Local Government Area, Hon. Anthony Etim, thanked the commission for extending their helping hands to Persons of Concern in Oron during the covid 19 lockdown in the country. The council boss said the gesture was an indication of hope that the Federal Government still have Person of Concern in mind. He noted that Oron LGA is a costal entry point for both legal and illegal migrants and as such, the area suffers direct impact whenever there are migration issues. According to him, “It is our earnest belief that this humanitarian support service will attract holistic intervention through the provision of items like food, clothing, healthcare, shelter, skills acquisition training, educational materials and other humanitarian support services to these Persons of Concern.” Etim however noted that it is his prayer that his area will always be remembered and considered in all the commission’s interventions in order to address the displacement trends ravaging the area. Responding, one of the beneficiaries, Mrs. Helen Cyril, thanked the commission for the items which she described as a welcome development. The Akwa Ibom State Government was represented at the event by the Desk Officer of State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Mr. Issac Umana.