Standard Chartered Plc, has given $10 million to United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the Red Cross from the $50 million Coronavirus (Covid-19) global charitable fund towards immediate relief efforts. The group stated that it will provide both short-term relief, and longerterm assistance, for communities across its 59 markets via the recently launched $50 million Covid-19 global charitable fund. It stated that the fund will operate in two distinct components; firstly, immediate relief for communities by July 2020 as the Group will provide $25 million of funding for immediate relief from the impact of Covid-19, with all funding commitments made by July 2020. It also stated that the Phase two aspect will be to support economic recovery and protecting livelihoods, saying that the group will provide $25 million of funding to protect employment and educational opportunities, aiding the long-term recovery of communities impacted by Covid-19. According to the Institution, funding will begin in August 2020 with a target to deliver projects by the end of 2021. Part of the $25 million will be donated directly by Standard Chartered’s employees via a monthlong giving campaign commencing on April 27, 2020. Group chief executive, Standard Chartered, Bill Winters, said, “Working with UNICEF and the Red Cross, as well as local NGO partners, will be critical in allowing us to provide rapid and effective medical and educational help to some of the most vulnerable people in our societies. But we cannot lose sight of the longer-term economic and health impact of Covid-19, and that is why our focus is also on supporting economic recovery and the protection of livelihoods. “I am incredibly proud that my colleagues throughout the bank have indicated so strongly their intention to make personal donations as part of our funding commitments.” Executive director, UNICEF, Henrietta Fore, said, “Under Covid-19, nearly 190 countries have imposed school closures, affecting 1.5 billion children and young people.  As the crisis continues to escalate, children confined at home are not only missing out on their education but on school meals and essential health and social-protection services. “With so much at stake, UNICEF is grateful to Standard Chartered for their generous $5 million contribution to our Covid-19 response to ensure that children and young people receive the support they need at this extraordinary time.”