The combined efforts of vigilantes, the Neighborhood Watch, hunters and conventional security agencies is yielding result in the fight against insecurity in Kogi State, with the latest breakthrough being the arrest of a kidnap kingpin and his gang members who have been terrorizing residents of Olowa and its environs in Dekina local government area of the state. The success in the latest strategy in flushing out criminals from their hideouts is attributed to internal security network of the state as well as collaboration and perfect synergy among security agencies. Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello is sustaining his administration’s effort to root out all criminal elements in the state as daily arrest of kidnappers, banditry and arm robbery gangs go on. Reacting to the arrest of the kidnappers in Dekina, the senior special assistant to the governor on security, Hon Ishaq Okolo, said that the Joint Taskforce Operation comprising of the Nigeria Police Force, local vigilante, Neighborhood Watch and hunters were making the area a hell for kidnappers and other criminal elements. While commending Governor Bello for the provision of necessary logistics to fight insecurity in the state, he warned that the fight against criminality under the leadership of the governor will not spare anyone irrespective of status and class. The suspects  who are currently  in police custody at the Dekina Division have made confessional statement. Three vehicles and three motorcycles were recovered while 4 victims regained their freedom during operations. The gang leader sustained bullet wounds following exchange of fire with security agents during the operation. In their separate remarks, the chairman of the vigilante, Jibrin Ogohi, SARS Head of Operation, Felix Pastor and the head of hunters in Dekina local government area, Lamido Usman vowed to continue to ensure that criminals are rooted out from the area. The four-man gang which has a female amongst them, is led by one Ajode Agbichi. Others include Noah Simon who is the Chief of Staff to the gang leader; Okpanachi Daniel aka Emperor and a female, Ojochegbe Muhammed. Similarly, 13 suspected kidnappers were arrested in Okehi local government area in the Central Senatorial District in two separate operations between April 19 and 21 2020. The Senior special assistant to the governor on security in the LGA, Hon Ohiare Abdulraheem while speaking to press at Ihima police station reiterated Governor Yahaya Bello’s commitment to a crime-free Kogi State and warned that criminals would be made to face the full wrath of the law. Recall that 28 kidnappers, bandits and cultists were arrested in Kogi State on the April 13, 2020. 