For so many IDPs who have already endured the horrors of war, malnutrition and disease, facing an outbreak of COVID-19 poses an extreme threat that goes beyond just talk of their vulnerability. MICHAEL OCHE writes that many lives will be lost, unless urgent humanitarian aid is provided to prevent the spread of #COVID19 in Displaced persons camps Imagine an outbreak of the novel Coronavirus in any of Nigeria’s Displaced Persons camp where a vast majority of an estimated 2.2 million Internally displaced live in overcrowded camps, made of tents with poor access to water, healthcare and sanitary supplies. Though, IDP camps in Nigeria have yet to report any COVID-19 case, the outbreak of the virus across the country has sparked fears among the Internally displaced in various camps and among humanitarian groups. There are concerns that the impact of the COVID-19 at Internally Displaced Persons camps, would be catastrophic. Despite these concerns, persons in IDP camps visited by our correspondents in Benue and Borno states complain of being abandoned in the face of the Covid-19 pandemic. Checks at some camps shows that the lack of supplies of hygiene essentials such as soap and water, still persist Our correspondent observed that many IDPs are without clean water, health equipment to prevent the spread of the virus. Internally displaced persons camps are still vastly overcrowded, prompting fears of what could happen should there be an outbreak. At the Abagena camp in Benue state, the camp commandant, James Iorkyaa lamented that the federal government is yet to reach them in all the palliative measures given to citizens to address the need of vulnerable persons in the face of COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. For many of the IDPs, the social distancing being emphasised by government and health agencies is an abstract luxury, while frequent hand washing diminishes a precious resource – water The Benue Executive Secretary, State Emergency Management Agency, Dr Emmanuel Shior, admitted that it was difficult to maintain social distancing at the camp, given the population of the IDPs and shortage of rooms even as he emphasized that government cannot just close the camp now He however, told our correspondent that the state Action Committee on COVID-19 has carried out awareness and sensitization campaigns across the eight camps in the state, with respect to preventive measures. “So what we have done is to step up Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) standard in all the camps,” he said. Our correspondent also observed absence of infrared thermometer, face mask at the camp. Though, the Executive secretary said that plans are on the way to purchase and distribute them to the camp. In Borno state, our correspondent gathered that despite closure of the borders, there were still influx of IDPs into the state from neighbouring countries. Chairperson of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Hajiya Yabawa Kolo, during a meeting with 51 camp managers, directed camp managers from Gamboru-Ngala, Damasak, Kalabalge, Banki, Bama and Monguno not to accept IDPs from any neighbouring country into the camps. Humanitarian activists say more than ever, it is crucial for vulnerable people to have access to not only to food, but also water, soap, shelters, and protection against the COVID-19. “COVID-19 poses a serious risk to the IDPs in Nigeria. As we all know that the contagion can easily spread through droplets infection. It remains a serious risk to places where people are consistently camped together. That is why government strategy should include special focus for IDPs in terms of prevention, prompt diagnosis and management of any infected persons,” Comrade Moradeke Abiodun-Badru PSI project Coordinator for English Speaking West Africa region said. Reiterating Badru’s position, the Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) which has been working in Borno state since 2014, said on its website, “Many of internally displaced already suffer from illnesses endemic to overcrowded settlements, such as water-borne diseases and respiratory tract infections like pneumonia, which has been identified as a significant threat when coupled with COVID-19.” Experts say it is best if government mobilises other humanitarian groups to avoid a spread of the virus in any of the IDPs camps Govt, International Agencies Take Action Amidst the Coronavirus pandemic, the focus for many countries have turned towards protecting their most vulnerable populations. Following concerns of a possible outbreak of COVID-19 in IDP camps, United Nations (UN) agencies as well as state governments are providing aides to prevent spread of the virus to camps across Nigeria In the northeast region, humanitarian groups have been installing hand-washing stations in various IDP camps When LEADERSHIP visited Teachers’ Village IDPs camp on Thursday, the camp manager, Saleh Babagana confirmed the government restriction of visitors to the camps as one of the measures to prevent spread of the COVID-19. Babagana said hand washing stations have been placed strategically in the camps , adding that the security personnel at the gates ensure that any IDP going out or in washes the hands and get sanitized before proceeding. President Muhammadu Buhari had during a national wide broadcast ordered relevant federal government agencies to provide for the most vulnerable persons in the country, which includes the IDPs “It is imperative that humanitarian assistance be maintained for this population. Failure to do so will cost lives,” the MSF said. International agencies like the IOM have also been working with partners to prevent the spread of the virus through provision of water and soap in camps across the northeast. “Humanitarian partners are installing hand-washing stations in IDP camps and ensuring the supply of clean water. Partners are also distributing soap and teaching women how to produce their own,” Edward Kallon, the UN humanitarian coordinator in Nigeria was quoted as saying in the UN statement. There is a consensus among humanitarian groups that it is time for government and its agencies to provide durable solutions to challenges facing IDPs and the COVID-19 outbreak provides a window of opportunity