Tension is brewing in the medical community of the Federal Medical Center (FMC) Jalingo in Taraba state over the yesterday’s appointment of a new Chief Medical Director (CMD) for the facility, Dr. Aisha Shehu Adamu, by the Federal Government. A group, Coalition of Southern Taraba Indigenous Groups, is protesting appointment of Dr. Aisha from Taraba North as the new CMD of FMC Jalingo, describing her choice as a violation of federal character principle, injustice and a compromise of merit. In a petition signed by Shuaibu Shidi and available to journalists in Abuja on Thurday, a copy of which was obtained by LEADERSHIP Friday, the coalition said the current acting Medical Director of FMC Jalingo, Dr. Dangana Iliya Attah, who hails from Taraba South, has the highest scores from the interview conducted for applicants for the advertised position of CMD and not Dr. Aisha. “That the selection process for the position of the Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre Jalingo was duly advertised and candidates applied while the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) constituted an interview committee, conducted the interviews where the present Acting Medical Director (Dr Dangana Iliya Attah) who is from the Southern Senatorial Zone of the state came first ahead of other candidates. “Thereafter, his name was recommended based on merit to the Federal Ministry of Health; FMOH subsequently recommended his name to the Office of the SGF who eventually towed the same line in recommending him based on merit to the office of the President. However, reports from social media indicates that Dr Aisha Shehu Adamu, who is from the Northern Senatorial Zone of the state was purportedly considered to be the Substantive MD ahead of the current Ag MD, Federal Medical Centre Jalingo,” it noted. It added that the Federal Character Principle recommends the rotation of posts within deserving senatorial zones of the state, saying that the position of the Medical Director of FMC Jalingo has remained in the Northern Senatorial Zone 16 years at a stretch where Dr Balasa Idris served in that capacity from 2003 to 2011 while Dr Wiza Inusa served between 2011 to 2019, all from Taraba North. They said denying Dr. Dangana his right is already creating tension within the hospital and the state at large, a development the coalition added is raising ethnic suspicions. “The Federal Character Principle prohibits sacrificing merit on the altar of zoning i.e no qualified Nigerian that came first and who is eminently qualified for the position will be denied a post and be given to another on the basis of zoning or gender as in this case. The first candidate from Ussa LGA in Southern Senatorial zone came first by a wide margin in addition to the fact that the Southern zone is long overdue to represent us in that capacity only for the position to be purportedly given to the second candidate who is from the Northern Senatorial zone again. “In the light of the above, we are convinced that the approving authority was misled to act contrary to the Federal Character Principle which is a constitutional matter. “Furthermore, we call on the relevant authorities to set up a high powered committee to look into the matter to ensure that the right thing is done to stop this illegality. “Finally, we believe that under your leadership, injustice will not be allowed to prevail. Hence, we plead with Mr President (as a Father to all) that if this appointment is true to kindly reconsider and give Southern Senatorial Zone of Taraba a favorable consideration,” the coalition said.