Toyota (Nigeria) Limited (TNL), the sole distributor of Toyota Motor Corporation in Nigeria and its foremost dealer Elizade Nigeria Limited (ENL) have donated three units of ambulances to the Lagos State Government to support the government in its fight to eradicate the Covid-19 pandemic in the state. According to the Chairman TNL and Founder ENL, Chief Michael Ade.Ojo, “Covid-19 is a vicious virus that is presently ravaging people all over the world. Everything humanly possible must be done to quickly contain the pandemic. The government needs the support of all well-meaning Nigerians and corporate organizations to fight the evil scourge and all hands must be on deck”. Ojo added that, “TNL and ENL will continue to support the government in any endeavour that will positively impact humanity”. Also speaking, the Managing Director of Toyota (Nigeria) Limited, Mr. Kunle Ade-Ojo added that, “the gesture is in recognition and commendation of the continuous effort of the Governor, His Excellency, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his indefatigable team to contain the spread of the virus”. He urged all Nigerians to abide by the guidelines provided by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) advising Nigerians on how to avoid contracting the virus and shun information from unauthorized sources. Ade-Ojo advised all to obey government directive to stay home and keep safe. While receiving the three ambulances from the Public Relations Team Lead of Toyota (Nigeria) Limited Mrs. Bukki Ogunnusi, the First Lady of the State, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu ably supported by the Chief of Staff of the State, Mr. Tayo Ayinde and other Senior Officials of the State, expressed appreciation for the timely gesture. The First Lady encouraged other socially responsive and responsible corporate organizations to emulate this laudable gesture and that such support will make significant impact in helping to stop the pandemic from spreading further. She promised that the ambulances will be put to good use for the purpose they were donated and for the benefit of all Lagosians and residents in the State.