Access Bank’s ‘Diamondxtra’ scheme has transformed the lives of more than 19,000 Nigerians since it launched in 2008. OLUSHOLA BELLO writes on its journey so far. Every year, since 2008, Diamond Bank, which morphed into Access Bank in March, 2019, has rewarded its customers with the opportunity to lift themselves financially and boost Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) through its DiamondExtra scheme. The initiative was conceived by the defunt Diamond Bank in July 2008, was formerly called Diamond SavingsXtra and then was changed to DiamondXtra in December 2013 in a bid to cater to a larger section of Nigerians. So, when the merger between Access Bank and Diamond Bank took place, there were fears that the savings initiative would no longer be on. But much to the surprise of Nigerians, the initiative has come to stay and still stands as the longest reward scheme with the Access Bank going one step for the 11th season of the scheme. The Bank has continued to use the scheme to reward loyal customers and bring new more customers into their deposit net. The reward schemes, coming in the form of promos, are turning lucky and loyal customers to instant millionaires. We have seen others Banks like United Bank for Africa (UBA), Fidelity Bank and First City Monument Bank (FCMB) have embraced this kind of promotion in rewarding loyal customers with millions of naira, houses, and other gift prizes. Financial pundits said such reward schemes could also promote the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) financial inclusion drive and make banking more interesting for customers. DiamondXtra is an interest yielding hybrid account which allows deposit of both cash and third party cheques. Hybrid means a combination of both savings and current account features. How The Scheme Works Basically, a customer simply needs to open a DiamondXtra account with just N5,000.00. However, the more multiples of N5,000 a customer saves, the higher her chances of winning at the monthly and quarterly draws. At the monthly draw, 10 customers have the  chance to win  N1 million each  while the quarterly draw includes the star prize of N100,000 salary paid every month for the next 20 years, education allowance for five years, rent for a year, and cash prizes ranging from 100,000 to N1million. For 2020, there will be quarterly draws to be held in June, September and December respectively where winners will emerge from every directorate in Nigeria; 1,039 customers will be rewarded from each quarterly draw:  one customer will win Salary4Life which amount to N100,000 every month for 20 years from each of the three quarterly draws; seven customers will win Family Health Insurance Cover for a year worth N1.6 million (one winner per directorate; 21 customers will win Rent for A year worth N1 million (three winners from each directorate); 45 customers will win Loyalty prize worth N20,000, while other prizes to be won include , N500,000, N100,000, N50,000 and lots of other cash prizes. On a monthly draws, 10 customers will win N1 million each from the monthly draws; women draw which supposed to hold this March in commemoration of Women’s Day and 10 female customers will be rewarded. Nine women will win N300,000 each while the luckiest woman gets N100,000 monthly shopping allowance for one full year; while targeted draws  will also continue rewarding associations, organizations, Clubs and Societies through our targeted draws scheme. Mode Of Participation The DiamondXtra account is designed for people who are willing to build up their savings gradually. The promo is opened to existing and new customers by having a DiamondXtra account. For existing customers, they need to increase their DiamondXtra account balance with a minimum of N5,000 every month, while new customers will open a DiamondXtra account with a minimum of N5,000 and start growing their balances. Every N5,000 in customers’ DiamondXtra account gives you a ticket in the draws so the more multiples of N5,000 they save, the higher their chance of winning. Season 12 Commences At the launching of the season 12 series of DiamondXtra , Access Bank said the Bank has since inception of DiamondXtra savings promo in 2008 given out over N5 billion to over 20,000 loyal customers across the country. Group head, products insight and capabilities of Access Bank, Robert Giles, disclosed that “Every year we add more prizes such as education allowance for five years, a senior citizen prizes, and prizes for rent for a year.” Giles said DiamondXtra has been very successful for Access Bank in growing its deposit base, saying that “It is one of the most successful deposit product in the country because people are inspired by not only getting a safe place to hold your money but also beyond the interest rate, the chance to win something transformational, to win salary 4life, win one million naira, win education grant for five years and there are so many stories. “We are entering the 12 years of customers who have been able to use that fund to start business to automatically change their success.” Executive director, Retail Banking, Access Bank, Victor Etuokwu, stated that Access Bank remains committed to rewarding its customers for their patronage and added that DiamondXtra is the best banking product in the country at the moment. He said, “We want every Nigerians to move to the DiamondXtra initiative so that they can partake in the goodies which the product brings. The only way companies remain profitable is by creating value so as long as we keep doing this, our customer base will increase and this initiative will not affect our bottom-line” Winners recount joyous shock Over the years, winners have shown their grateful attitude to the Bank. Akitiyan Richard Yerimah from Kaduna who won Rent For a Year in January this year stated that “I feel glad because I was not expecting it. I thought it was a scam because I have not been luck with draws or promotion of any kind.” She stated that this reward has helped in a long way in solving some of my financial issues, saying that “I got to know of the account from one of Access Bank staff and I keyed into it and I keep saving regularly and I was called as a winner due to my saving attitude. “I urged Nigerians out there to open a DiamondXra account and save because this is real and also this will improve our savings culture.” Also, at one of the Season nine draws, a trader from Abia, Raphael Ogugua, won a brand new car. During the presentation at the Diamond Bank main branch Umuahia, Abia State on February 16, 2018, Ogugua came out of the car and exclaimed, “It is real; it is real. I am the owner of a car”. He then sprawled on the bonnet of the glittering car still shouting in excitement. Catherine Onwusonye, a businesswoman based in Abuja, was rewarded with the DiamondXtra star prize, a Hyundai Accent car, during the Season 10 DiamondXtra Regional Prize Presentation Ceremony which held in Lagos. Shortly after the prize presentation, Catherine told journalists that she thought it was a joke when she received the call informing her that she had won the star prize of the draw. Last June, Mrs Nnenna Chukwu was the star prize winner, winning N100, 000 per month for 20 years in the salary for life category. Chukwu could not hide her excitement, explaining that she had opened her DiamondXtra account a long time ago and was not expecting to win. In April 2019, one of the winners was Chukwuemeka Emmanuel, a businessperson based in Lagos. He had been operating his DiamondXtra account for five years. “I am filled with joy today and I encourage Nigerians to tap into the rewarding scheme. My advice to all out there is to go and open a DiamondXtra account and save to win too.” Over the past 31 years, Access Bank has evolved from an obscure Nigerian Bank into a world-class African financial institution. Access Bank has built its strength and success in corporate banking and is now applying that expertise to the personal and business banking platforms it acquired from Nigeria’s International Commercial bank in 2012. As part of its continued growth strategy, Access Bank is focused on mainstreaming sustainable business practices into its operations. The Bank strives to deliver sustainable economic growth that is profitable, environmentally responsible, and socially relevant. 