About 150 suspected cultists were on Sunday paraded by the operatives of the Ogun state Police Command in connection with the robbery attacks which allegedly sacked about 12 communities in Ogun and Lagos state.  Their arrest and parade was coming on the heels of complaints and distress calls lodged at the police command headquarters in the state by residents and landlords from two local government areas of Ifo and Ado-Odo/Ota areas of the state.  The affected residents and landlords had complaints of robberies and unrest as a result of cult activities in places such as Owode, Ilepa, Ifo, Arigbajo, Itori, Dalemo, Ijoko, Joju, Sango, Ota in Ifo, Agbado- Ijaiye among  other communities in Ifo and Ado-Odo/Ota local  government areas of the state.  The state’s Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson however, conducted journalists round the troubled areas on Sunday after the parade of the 150 suspects arrested in most of the affected areas.  Addressing journalists at the parade held in Ifo Divisional Police station, Ebrimson refuted the report that armed robbers had taken over some parts of Ifo and Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Areas of the state.  The CP said there was no report of robbery to the command by anyone in the troubled areas, emphasising that what happened in the area was a case of cult clashes among seven rival groups within the areas as a result of the killing of one of them.  Ebrimson said upon the information about the clashes, the command swung into action and made some arrests.  He added that the command deployed men from Special Anti-Robbery Squad, Anti-Cultism unit, Anti-Kidnapping unit, Special Forces and conventional policemen who were drawn from the Area command in Ifo and Ota to the troubled areas.  Ebrimson explained that his men smoked the suspected criminals out of their hideouts and recovered various weapons.  According to him, eight locally made guns ; 52 live cartridges ; eight knives ; 12 handsets ; two  scissors ; large quantity of weeds ; several cutlasses  ; one axe and saw were recovered from them .  The Police boss said the unrest was caused by seven different cult groups which included; the “Ilena” boys; “federal boys”, “Lemon boys”, “base boys”, “Sahara boys”, “Gbese” boys and “Marindoti” boys .  He said, “The Genesis of this was from some criminal gangs that engaged in supremacy battle in Ifo and spread to Ado-Odo/Ota local government area of the state .  “It started on April 4, and the command tactical operation arrested some hoodlums and ammunitions.  “I want to say that there was no single case of armed robbery no case of kidnapping has been reported .Nobody has been killed.  “The basic issue is cultism that emanated from the killing of one of them in Ifo and spread to Sango, Ijoko and Agbado.” 