Following the outbreak of (COVID-19) and its unabated spread. ADEBAYO WAHEED reports on the politics of palliatives shared in Oyo The entire world was recently taken aback and shocked with the breakdown of another dreaded disease called coronavirus  (Covid’19) which has continued to spread like wild fire in the harmattan. The disease was so dreaded if not more than the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome  (AIDs). This was because nobody can determine the number of people contracting the disease in a second. Unlike the case of AIDS where personal contact must be established with the victim either through sexual intercourse or in contact with his or her blood, with the Covid-19, there may not necessarily be any personal contact with the victim. Initially, countries in the world did not take the disease very seriously not until when they started recording outrageous number of deaths. It was so astonishing at first that with the minimal records of victims worldwide, the number jumped astronomically so that deaths were being recorded on a daily basis. It was sad that powerful countries in the world with their nuclear and military prowess, have been battling with this disease, as they were unable to curb its spread. But surprisingly, those who initially tested positive to the disease after a few days at their different isolation centres, later came back to test negative after one or two tests. For those who later tested positive, none of them have come out openly and disclosed to the whole world what they used or took to test negative. The fact remains that no cure has been found to cure the disease. It is rather unfortunate that the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has continued to announce new confirmed cases of COVID19 in the country on a daily basis, while the number of deaths is on the increase. In an attempt to reduce the spread of the novel disease, President Muhammadu Buhari had, during a national broadcast, extended the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) by another 14 days. Also, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Musa Bello, has disclosed that the Ministerial Advisory Committee on COVID-19 in the FCT pays as much as N50,000 daily to its doctors assisting in the fight against the spread of coronavirus. To this end, the Committee on COVID-19 is presently leading the private sector initiative set up by the administration in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak to assist in mobilising finance and human capital to fight the pandemic in the FCT. While expressing hope that in the coming days, Abuja will record the discharge of more patients managed in the FCT of COVID-19, Bello cautioned that violation of the lockdown order aimed at curbing the spread of the virus would leave the FCT administration no choice than to adopt stricter measures to curb the spread of the virus in the nation’s capital. Bello lamented the rising number of confirmed cases in Abuja, said the administration has put in place adequate measures including expanding and securing more facilities as isolation centres to manage patients in the FCT. To cushion the economic effect of the disease, both states and federal governments have released money for people to stay at home with a view to curbing the spread of the disease. In Oyo State, while the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare claimed that the federal government had given out financial support to people in Oyo and Ogbomoso, investigation has revealed that no single person has collected such money from federal government. In fact, there was protest in Onaara Local Government Area of Oyo State, where there was claim that federal government’s money had been shared to the people and as a result people came out in their large numbers to deny the claim saying that they were yet to receive any financial assistance from the federal government. However, it was gathered that the money was given to some All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in the state to share and was shared to party loyalists. Based on this, the federal government has been promising to pay the vulnerable  people who have verified BVN and less than N5,000 in their account. There was also claim that those who can afford N100 rechargeable call card May not benefit from the scheme. For close to one month now, people who stayed at their various houses in accordance with the federal government’s stay at home directive, have been languishing in hunger calling on government to fulfil its promise but all to no avail. The questions on the lips of every Nigerian now include: How is the federal government to determine who is vulnerable and who is not?  How will government determine or know people who cannot afford N100 recharge card and those who cannot? For weeks, Oyo State governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde had at different fora, assured the people of the state of palliatives to cushion the economic effect of lockdown in the state immediately the state government complete its data. However, residents of the state have lamented over the delay by the governor to distribute the palliatives, claimimg that they were yet to receive palliatives from the state government since it generated over N200m and received relief materials worth over N50million from philanthropists and organizations as part of efforts to cushion the effects of knockdown on the citizens. in Aleshinloye market, Ogunpa market, Spare parts market at Araromi Gate, Salvation Army and Oke Parde among others. A battery seller at Oke Parde whose shop has remained closed for the past three weeks, Tajudeen Abiola maintained that he had lost over N300,000 since he was asked to close his shop. “We have closed our shops since. Even some of our people who opened a few days after they asked us to close the shops, some security agents came to send them away. “Since three weeks ago, I would have realized over three hundred thousand naira. We have been hanging around, we are not allowed to open our shops. “There is no money, but the government said it has realized some money and relief materials, but I am yet to see  anything”. Wasiu Rahmon, a ready-made clothes seller at Ogunpa market appealed to the state government to distribute what it has received so far, adding that some miscreants have taken the opportunity to perpetrate crimes. “I thought that the two weeks was enough, but I was surprised when they said it has been extended for another two weeks. This is not fair. Some other markets are opening but, they categorized our own as nonessential. Don’t we have family members that we cater for? This is too much.” Apart from distributing the relief materials, the government must strengthen the security in all parts of Ibadan, in fact, some of the areas now, are keeping vigil because some miscreants have been using the opportunity to perpetrate crimes. Sulaiman Adisa who said that he and his colleagues have been living on credit because they were not allowed to open their shops insisted that the only way to reduce the negative effects of coronavirus on traders whose shops have been closed since three weeks ago, is to call the traders and give them palliatives. “As you can see, I have been at home since then. Even the first day that I went to the shop, they had to use security agents to come and chase us away. We have been at home for two weeks, the government extended the closure of our market for another two weeks, what do we eat? “We are just hearing it on the radio what the government has received but, they did not distribute it. Do they want to wait until those things expire? The government needs to call us, those of us that have closed our shops.” Another resident, Kolawole Kazeem noted that he heard several times on the radio that the government had received some items to cushion the effects of coronavirus from some donors but wondered why it has not been distributed. “We have been staying at home for the past three weeks, there is no palliative from the government despite the fact that they said they had received some millions of naira. When do we expect them?” Following the donation of 1,800 bags of rice to the state government, APC expressed gratitude towards the government’s gesture for giving palliative to the state government through Nigeria Customs Service, in form of food stuff, mainly 1,800 bags of rice, but called on Governor Seyi Makinde to immediately distribute the product without bias. The party’s Publicity Secretary, Dr. Abdulazeez Olatunde in a statement noted that the federal government had “Walk its Talk” by fulfilling its purpose of governing without bias by donating 6,000 Bags of rice to four South Western states of Nigeria. The party expressed hope that Makinde would not only distribute the donated rice immediately but also add from the donated cash by the corporate and individuals to the people and residents of Oyo State without political bias, as people were already seeing this COVID-19 palliative as being terribly late in coming. Also, a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Olusegun Odebunmi (Bunvic) accused Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde of not being serious with the fight against Covid-19. The lawmaker representing OgoOluwa/Surulere federal constituency, Hon. Olusegun Odebunmi who is the chairman House Committee on Information, revealed that the governor was not handling Covid-19 seriously, adding that his people did not benefit from the federal government’s cash transfer. According to him, nobody has benefitted from the federal government’s cash transfer programme in his federal constituency. Bunvic, a third-term member of the House of Representatives disclosed this on Monday morning during a live call-in radio programme monitored in Ibadan. “Personally, I am not really satisfied with the way the coronavirus programme is being handled in Oyo State. It’s like the governor is handling this situation as if this pandemic is not a serious matter. “Unfortunately, he was one of the victims and the key person who is supposed to be the stakeholder in sensitizing people and taking care of people like the CMD of UCH who also fell victim”, he said. He called on the state government to take the fight against Covid-19 seriously because even powerful nations that believed in their capacity and ability to handle any health challenge have, unfortunately, failed. “The best way to protect the nation is to stop the spreading of this virus”, the lawmaker added. He also faulted the failure of the governor to lockdown the state to prevent the spread of the virus but commended the governor of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, for being proactive by ensuring the returnees from Abidjan were quarantined and tested immediately. “We should have our own state programme of preventing the spread of the virus because with it you can stop the spread, that’s the only solution.” He noted that he can’t call for lockdown at the moment anymore because some states have been on lockdown for weeks and that means Oyo State will be extending the lockdown days. The lawmaker, however, added that if the number of cases should increase, the state will have no choice but to embrace a total lockdown. He condemned the poor handling of the conditional cash transfer policy initiated by the federal government for the poorest of the poor Nigerians across the thirty-six (36) states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory.