Secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha has said the federal government was aware of the difficulties associated with the lockdown but the restriction of movement is a step in the right direction. Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari has again extended the lockdown in Lagos ,Ogun and FCT. QHowever, speaking during the daily briefing of the Presidential task force on Covid -19, Monday, the SGF said the lockdown would help in limiting the spread of the disease. The SGF, who is the chairman of the task force said notwithstanding the sacrifices Nigerians have made so far, more should be done to safeguard Nigerians against COVID-19. According to him“We have also been assessing the impact of the lockdown and the level of compliance by Nigerians. While we recognize the difficulties associated with such unprecedented action, we remain certain, however, that it is a step in the right direction for us to secure a healthier tomorrow,”
“Ladies and gentlemen, since the broadcast of the President on Sunday 29th March, 2020 the Presidential Task Force has, with your support accomplished the following objectives that underpinned the measure,”
“Slow down the spread in order so as not to overwhelm our fragile health system; intensified case identification, testing and isolation; intensified contact listing and isolation-( 92% of all contacts have been identified). “Increased laboratories by 100%- (Lagos -3; Abuja-2; Irua-1; Ibadan UCH-1; Iree-1; Jos-1; Kano-1; Abakaliki-1) there are now 11 laboratories in the network “Increased testing by 50%, to the current capacity of 1,500 tests per day, with over 6,000 tests done; procurement concluded for new high throughput testing by end of the month. “Distributed personal protective equipment to over 40,000 healthcare workers – there have been no stockouts; trained over 7,000 healthcare workers on infection prevention and control; deployed NCDC teams to 19 states; visited Lagos to evaluate the readiness. “Despite all of these, the PTF is convinced that we must deliver more. Based on the evaluation of experts, assessment of available data and experiences of other nations currently in the same situation, the PTF has submitted its recommendations to Mr. President and I urge Nigerians to please await further pronouncements in this regard.” He appealed to Nigerians to remain calm, maintain personal hygiene, observe physical distancing and stay at home. Mustapha, thanked the health workers for their sacrifices in the fight against the disease, adding that the task force had made some recommendations to the president.