All members of the House of Representatives have resolved to donate their two months’ salaries to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria, Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has announced. The donation, according to the speaker, will be independent of the contributions by individual lawmakers to alleviate the hardship that their constituents face at this time of national emergency. He said that starting from March salary, the 360 lawmakers’ donation will be transferred directly to the National Relief Fund account for the fight against COVID-19. In a video message to Nigerians as part of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Gbajabiamila said: “We have in the House of Representatives jointly committed to contributing one hundred per cent (100%) of our salaries for the next two months to the fight against COVID-19 in Nigeria. “Our contribution will support provisions for the welfare of frontline medical professionals and health workers, and other interventions to provide for the wellbeing of all Nigerians through these trying times. “Accordingly, I have directed the Clerk to the National Assembly to see to it that all members’ salaries are transferred to the National Relief Fund for this month and the next. “This is independent of ongoing individual efforts by members to alleviate the suffering brought on by this virus and to improve the living conditions of citizens in their various constituencies.” He said the House would exercise its oversight power to ensure faithful administration of all emergency funds and contributions made so far to ensure they serve the purpose for which they were intended. He added that the House has already mandated the Committees on Health and Disaster Preparedness to diligently oversee the distribution of items donated by local and foreign donors to ensure proper management. Gbajabiamila also said that the House has urged the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to make cash grants to the 774 local government areas in the country to alleviate the suffering of the masses. “The House also calls on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), as part of its Policy Measures in Response to the COVID-19 outbreak, to immediately direct cash grants to the seven hundred and seventy-four (774) Local Government Area administrations in the country to provide food and other essentials to at-risk individuals and communities.” The speaker implored Nigerians to adhere strictly to the guidelines given by relevant authorities to prevent further spread of the disease, saying that Nigeria could not afford to have a large scale outbreak of the disease. “This crisis has exposed in the worst possible way the evident weaknesses of our health system. After this is over and moving forward, we must do everything in our power to ensure that we will never again come upon a moment such as this, as ill-equipped as we are now. “We are at war and our mission is first to survive, and then to overcome. These objectives require that we act in unison and remain laser-focused on the challenge at hand. I ask all of you to continue to take care of yourselves. Follow the guidelines of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). Do not disseminate information of uncertain provenance. “Do not panic but make sure that those around you understand the risks of this disease and the challenges we face and must overcome together. If we do all that we are called to do at this time, it won’t be long now before we can with joy and thanksgiving together declare mission accomplished,” he said. While commending President Muhammadu Buhari for the ongoing efforts of the federal government to manage the outbreak and alleviate its adverse economic and social impact on Nigerians, Gbajabiamila said the House would in every way it could “continue to support these efforts to ensure that our people make it through this difficult time with dignity and peace of mind.” Gbajabiamila also expressed profound appreciation “to all the individuals and organisations who have stepped up to support federal and state governments’ efforts to manage the present crisis.”  