Former minister of Sports and Youth Development and the immediate past national publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bolaji Abdullahi, in this interview with MARY AMODU, speaks on why he resigned as APC publicity secretary and efforts by his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to pick-up its pieces. What’s your take on the rift between former Senate president, Bukola Saraki and the Kwara State governor, and what are the possible solutions? I would rather not answer this question but if I must answer it, I am going to say that I don’t know if there is any rift between the governor and Saraki that is personal.  I don’t know. I’ve not spoken to either the governor or Dr Saraki on this matter. What I know is what is in the public domain. The governor is claiming that the house or the building or the land or the property was not properly acquired and he went ahead to demolish it. But I think with the kind of reaction that followed that action, the governor himself must have realized that he would have probably handled it differently because if you look across the country the reaction that followed the exercise indicated that it has not been very popular.  So, I think they are trying to find some kind of amicable solution in the interest of all of us, to leave this kind of issues behind and focus on what really matters. Our country is in trouble, and it’s about time we focused on what really matters, what can improve the lives of citizens everywhere, rather than all this pettiness, politics, that doesn’t help anybody.  What’s the current relationship status between you and Saraki? There is no problem. You see, there is a difference between a personal relationship and a political relationship. For 16 years now, I’ve had a personal relationship with Dr Saraki and nothing has changed in terms of that personal relationship, nothing has changed. The political relationship, which is secondary, you know, yes, there were issues following what happened in the last election but that does not in any way alter the fundamental relationship, which I think is personal.  So, how we go about picking up the pieces from what happened, he is trying to pick up the pieces, I am trying to pick up the pieces, everybody’s trying to pick up the pieces. Everybody made one mistake, one way or the other. So we are all trying to pick up the pieces. Yes, we may bring the pieces together again, we may never be able to bring up the pieces together again, everybody’s willing to pick up the pieces, but in terms of personal relationship. Oh, no, no, no, there’s nothing. Nothing has gone wrong!!!  There are so many defections from your party, PDP in Kwara State. What does the future hold for PDP? When you lost an election, you have a problem in your hands. PDP has never lost an election in Kwara State. If you say APC, won in the last election it’s still the same PDP that went into APC. So what I’m saying is that those of us who lost in the last election never lost election in Kwara State. For the first time, we lost an election; it’s a very unfamiliar terrain for us, very very unfamiliar terrain to our followers, so everybody is traumatised. Sometimes I will say it is confusing on how to proceed, how to move forward. People are more or less politically displaced at the moment. So there’s a lot of confusion. But I think I also know that people are trying in their respective ways to bring things together again. I think with time, people will recover, and begin to start the process of rebuilding. PDP is not a party that is used to be in opposition whether at the national level, or at the sub national level. So there’s a lot of work to do but I think that whether we’re going to be able to rebuild or not, depends on what happens at the national level. So if we are able to get our act right at the national level then some of these things will trickle down.  PDP still has a very formidable structure across the country, down to the lowest units of our communities. So what you need to do is to reactivate the party from the center. Once we are able to re-energise the party from the centre, the rest, the remaining parts of the bodies, will follow; it’s like the head is sick once you get the heads rebalanced or recalibrated the fingers, the toes, other parts of the body will also come back alive, so that’s what’s going to happen.  Why did you resign as the national publicity secretary of APC? Was it because of Saraki or your personal ambition? I absolutely did the right thing given the situation that we were in at that time, if the same situation presents itself again, I will do the same thing. I absolutely didn’t resign because of him, I was convinced that was the right thing to do. You know people look at someone like us and think that we are robots, we don’t have a mind simply because we choose to be loyal to an individual. But I don’t expect that people who don’t know anything about loyalty will appreciate the sacrifice that some of us are making, so as for me, It’s about my upbringing. Being loyal is part of my upbringing, you don’t learn that in school, but that does not mean that I don’t have my own experiences, or I don’t have my own stories. My experiences and encounters on a daily basis largely inform what I do.  So I had my own experiences within the APC, I joined the party as national publicity secretary, at a very difficult time in the party’s history and I think we were able to stabilise that party with nothing. We were able to pilot it from a very difficult face in the party’s history. Post-election, no politics was going on, the president was not in the country because he was having medical treatment abroad. Nigerians had begun to question the sincerity of the party, to ask a lot of questions. So, it was my responsibility to speak for the party at that time, and to do so with a lot of calmness and integrity and a sense of responsibility and I think I managed to do that. When things began to happen, and people came into the party, like the current chairman, Adam Oshimhole and a couple of other people came into the party, and they began to think they have a better idea of how I should do my job as a publicity secretary and they thought that as the publicity secretary of the party, I was not attacking Saraki therefore I’m not doing my work. And I said, who am I attacking? point at one person that I am attacking? I don’t attack a person, that was not my job, I address the issues. So if you are looking for a publicity secretary that will be attacking people, then you have to get somebody else because I don’t attack people. And when it gets to a point that someone who is the chairman of the party doesn’t recognise and respect other members of the NWC, and treat them and talk to them as if they were his appointees, I had no stomach for that. I respect people but when you insult me, we have to reassess the relationship. So, it had nothing to do with Saraki leaving APC or not, whether Saraki had left APC or not I would have probably had left NWC even if I’m not leaving the party, because that’s where my people will still be. I’ll probably leave the NWC, It was getting to a point that every single day I get up to go to work is either you accept that you can be insulted, or you prepare yourself for a fight. I am not someone that can stomach that kind of nonsense, so that was why I left there but when people begin to say, Oh, you left again because Saraki left, I was okay and fine. I mean I don’t owe anybody.  Being a member of APC NWC, do you think the party’s national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, deserves what he is happening to him? What he’s going through now is inevitable. Don’t get me wrong, I don’t have anything personal against him. We actually had mutual respect for each other before he came into the party and it was on the basics of that, I tried to engage him. I was a PDP minister when he was ACN governor in Edo State and during the first ‘Ukpepe’ Marathon that he organised, as the sports minister, I went there against all odds, even though we belonged to different parties. Some people were whispering to me then why I should not go there. I went there, because I believed in what he was doing. So, it was on the basics of that I believed that we could work together when he came into the party. But he was a completely different human being. So, whatever he’s going through now, I think he deserves it, I think it’s a matter of time before he got it. But there are two ways, I’m not saying they should get him out or not, that’s not my business. If he can use this experience to learn a new way of dealing with people, it will be better for him, it will be better for the party. That’s my own take. Maybe, if he sees this as a teachable moment that he can learn something from and learn to respect people he works with and that you don’t have to win every argument then, it is fine. He appears to have a need to not just win every argument but to humiliate whoever he is arguing against. Why should it be like that? So if he’s able to learn a new way of thinking and a new way of behaving from this experience, he will be a better person because I actually think he is very efficient. He can be very capable but he has that character flaw. We all know that he needs to work on it even in his advanced age. If he’s able to do that. But I am not in the party now. I’m only answering the question that you asked me about the circumstances that led to my exit from the party that’s all.