Senator Bima Muhammad Enagi represents Niger West senatorial zone in the Senate. In this interview with journalists, the vice chairman of Senate Committee on Agriculture explains why he sponsored the controversial Bill to ban the use and importation of generators, among other topical issues. RUTH CHOJI was there for LEADERSHIP Friday. What informed your decision to present the Bill to ban the sale and use of generating sets? This is one of the misconceptions because the Bill is not about the total ban of generators. It is to make the use of generators stricter. We have neglected it to an extent that important facilities have standby generators. The only place that should have standby generator should be places like hospitals, seaports, airports and any other facility the Minister of Power deems necessary to have a generator should have it. It’s not a total ban but stricter regulations for the use of generators. What informed my decision to sponsor that Bill at this time is because about 80 million Nigerians don’t have electricity and public means of getting it. It was informed by the frustration majority of Nigerians are facing in getting reliable and efficient electricity supply. I am strongly of the view that we need to declare a state of emergency on the power sector. Power is important for industrialisation, healthcare and the rest. My concern is about 80 million Nigerians, not about you and me that have generators in our houses. Nigeria is blessed with dams, wind and sunshine from where we can develop energy. We have gas and coal that we can develop energy from. All we need to do is to develop these natural resources into energy. There is an adage and I only see that kind of thing in Nigeria where parents are selling sachet water and their children are thirsty for water.  Nigeria occupies 136 position out of 137 of countries with spectator electricity index. We are just above Yemen, a war-ravaged country. Is that not a shame? Nigeria is the world highest importer of generators. We import an average of 4.5m generators to this country every year. Nigerians spend about N20bn every year to import generators. Ministries and average Nigerians spend about N3trn to fuel these generators every year. These monies can be used to develop the power sector. There have been series of reforms on the power sector and yet, none has worked. President Obasanjo spent over $16bn on this sector, the current president, Buhari has spent over N1.3trillion on power despite that, there is no remarkable improvement. We only generate about 2,000 megawatts only.  Who is to blame for this? Everybody is to be blamed but majority are the leaders. Majority of them have standby generators in their homes and offices. In some cases they buy the generating sets with government monies. My Bill is saying that, our governors, senators, president, commissioners and all should not have standby generators in their homes. I believes that necessity is the mother of invention. If our elite are denied this luxury, that is not even their money, they will be persuaded to develop the power sector.  But Nigerians you are talking about have come out to denounce and condemn your Bill. How do you hope to convince them that you mean well? Do you realise that the Wright brothers who first made airplane were laughed at when they first made it. I know that if my Bill scales through, Nigerians especially the common man will be better for it.  Given the opportunity to advise the Federal Government on the way forward regarding the power sector, what will it be? The first and most important step is to deny everybody the use of generators except for essential services. Then the Federal Government should declare a national emergency on the power sector for efficient and reliable supply for Nigerians. Without power, we cannot develop in Nigeria. The money Nigerians use to buy bag of rice will be lower if there is power.  Senators from Niger State are being berated for sponsoring what some people call ‘anti-people Bills’ like the hate speech Bill, anti-social media Bill and now the ban on generators Bill by you. How do you feel about this? I have just explained to you why I sponsored the Bill. Nigerians may not see it now but at the long run, the people will be better for it. As at today, Nigerians lose $50bn GDP annually because of lack of power. We must take a bold step now.  As the deputy chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign and Local Debts, are you not worried about the nation’s rising debt profile? Government will not be able to maintain current structures not to talk of building new ones if we don’t borrow.  One of the ways to generate revenue is to ensure that these infrastructures are developed and we privatise them, we will generate money. When some people say the burden from debt may be too much for future generations, it is not true. There is international benchmark for borrowing and Nigeria is still below the benchmark for developing countries in our category. Our debt profile is at 18% and you can go as high as 25%. So we are still comfortable at 18%. Our concern should be for government to use the money judiciously.  COVID-19 is here with us and there are fears that if this crisis is not handled well, Nigeria could slide into another recession. Do you harbour such fears? If you follow what the IMF is saying, the whole world is heading towards a recession. Nigerian government has taken the best of actions, we are proactive and that is why we were able to detect the Italian that came in with virus. We are still low in term of infection. Now they have turned all the major stadia and other federal government’ structures into isolation centers. I am fully aware that a lot of equipment for testing are being imported into Nigeria to check the virus.  Members of the National Assembly reportedly donated their March salaries to fighting COVID-19… This is true and I am happy about it. This is the way we want to help government and show people our concern. I was happy when I received the text. Most of my colleagues that I spoke with are supporting it.  Goverments all over the world are evacuating thier citizens from countries of high burden, yet Nigerian government has not deem it fit to do that for Nigerians in affected countries… I am not aware that we have Nigerians that are residing outside the country who want to come home. I am sure if there is such case, the Federal Governent will do the needful.  Finally, in the face of this pandemic, what are you doing for your constituents to cushion the effects? We are doing a lot for them. We have been sending foodstuffs and money to help them. We also make radio jingles in local dialects to sensitise the people on the dangers of COVID-19 and how they can avoid it.