An Osun State High Court sitting in Ikirun, yesterday, sentenced Elijah Oyebode, (25) and Jelili Raji (35) to death by hanging over the murder of Miss Rofiat Damilola Adebisi, a 400 level student of Osun State University, Ipetu-Ijesa. The presiding judge, Justice Oyejide Falola also jailed one Yusuf Ajibade (28) to two years imprisonment for receiving stolen property in the same case. The trio were arraigned before Justice Falola on 14th November, 2017 on three count charges of alleged conspiracy to commit murder and procession of accessory after the fact of murder.  The charges, according to the prosecutor, were contrary to Sections 324, 316 and punishable under Section 319 and S, 322 of the Criminal Code Cap.3 Laws of Osun state, 2002 respectively.  The prosecution counsel from Osun State Ministry of Justice, Barrister Kareem Adekilekun who appeared along Kemi Oyolola told the Court that “On the 22nd December, 2016 Miss Rofiat Damilola Adebisi, a 400 Level student of Osun State University, Ipetu-Ijesa Campus boarded a Golf Car with Registration number, Lagos FKJ 636 DL driven by Mr. Elijah Oyebode.”  They contended that on the 23rd of December, 2016 the remains of Rofiat Adebisi was later found by the road side along Egbeda/Iragbiji Road.  The prosecutor told the court during hearing that Yusuf Ajibade was arrested for selling the deceased phone (IPHONE 5) to one Quadri on the instruction of Elijah Oyebode.  In his evidence, Mr Adeyeye Simon, a Police Officer attached to the Homicide section State Criminal Investigation Department told the court that Oyebode who was a commercial driver that was plying Akure/Owena Road, drove the deceased to Jelili Raji’s house after he had touched her with charm .  Barrister Adekilekun also told the court that the confessional statements of all the defendants were taken to be true and have also been corroborated by the evidence of Adeyeye Simeon a police officer and five other witnesses.  In his judgement, Justice Falola said that the prosecution counsel has proved his case beyond any reasonable doubt and found Elijah Oyebode and Jelili Raji guilty of murder and conspiracy and consequently convicted them but acquitted Yusuf Ajibade of murder but convicted him of possession of property. However, counsel to the convicts, Mr Suleiman Bello, pleaded with court to temper Justice with mercy Justice Falola sentenced Elijah Oyebode and Jelili Raji to death by hanging, while Yusuf Ajibade was sentenced to two years for receiving stolen property.  