First City Monument Bank (FCMB) Limited has re-emphasised its commitment in empowering its customers as it temporarily suspends the season seven edition of its promotion package for savings account customers. The suspension of the account tagged, ‘FCMB Millionaire Promo’, is the decision, which has been approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), as part of the strategies of the Bank to support the efforts of the government to mitigate the risk of the spread of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. In a statement, FCMB explained that the development is also in line with the social distancing protocol and other measures recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to contain the disease. Thousands of customers of FCMB and officials of the regulatory agencies usually attend the live draws of the promo across the four regions and nineteen zones that make up the Bank nationwide. The ‘FCMB Millionaire Promo Season seven’ was scheduled to run from March to October 2020 and produce another set of 16 lucky customers of the Bank as millionaires through winnings of cash ranging from N1 million to N2 million. This is in addition to 152 LED televisions, 152 power generating sets, 912 smart phones and 760 decoders, to be won through electronic selection of all qualified customers. Executive director, Retail Banking of FCMB, Mr Olu Akanmu, said that “The decision to temporarily suspend the Millionaire Promo Season seven was a difficult one. “However, as a responsible organisation, the safety and wellbeing of customers and the entire public are paramount at this critical period of a health emergency.” He stated that as soon as the situation becomes conducive, the season seven of the promo will resume, because the Bank is committed to reward the aspiration of its customers to save and fulfil their dreams. According to him, as a leading financial services provider, FCMB has continued to provide prompt and convenient financial services despite the ongoing challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic in Nigeria. “The Bank has already activated its Business Continuity plan and commenced comprehensive implementation of safety measures for customers, staff and the public to contain the spread of the pandemic.” Apart from advising Nigerians to diligently adhere to all the rules put in place by the government and the health authorities to avoid further spread of Covid-19, Akanmu said that the Bank has put in place several safety measures at all its touch points, saying that “Among this is the cleaning of teller counters at all branches with disinfectants every hour. “This is in addition to compulsory enforcement of temperature screening, the use of hand sanitisers for all those that must gain access to any of its business premises and keeping a keen eye on social distancing rules.” Following this, FCMB has further optimised its robust alternate and digital banking channels to effectively cater for all forms of transactions required.