A group of private sector operators, under the auspices of Port Harcourt City One Love, has declared its intention to support the Rivers State government, to enlighten residents of the state on the dangers of coronavirus. A member of the group, Kingsley Wenenda Wali, who disclosed this while speaking with journalists in Port Harcourt, expressed worry that a lot of residents of the state still see the coronavirus pandemic as a scam. Wali said: “You will expect that there is a strata in the society that should actually be driving the enlightenment. But, unfortunately, they don’t even believe that this is an international crisis. So many of them see it as a scam. That is quite scary and that is why we are looking at what we can do. “The takeaway that we have is that even those of us who are in the private sector have come to have a first hand knowledge now that we the need to work with government. Government can only come out with policies; there is only nothing much government can do. I think it is people in the organised private sector that can do something. “Where we are right now is how to deal with the crisis and help the government and people as much as we can. What we are doing is in collaboration with the health authorities and government, we are trying to see how much we can bring because we have three major platform that we are working on. “One is the food beat, the first responders and the medicare staff generally and of course, public enlightenment. It is quite scary that people don’t seem to see this as something that is capable of causing us great harm.” Wali stated that the recent visit of the group to some waterfronts and slums in Port Harcourt, has shown that there is hunger in the land. He said: “Some days ago, we went to some parts of Port Harcourt. We went to the slums, the waterfronts, to reach out to the poor. What most of our people that went out saw broke down a lot of our people but at the end of the day, I think, it help to re-energize the need for us to really do something. “We saw hunger, which is quiet instructive too because we are talking to people who are not concerned about social distancing. They are not concerned about one big man disease in Abuja. They are thinking of how to feed. I am telling you; it is not like a play. It is not like a drama. It is a thing of life and death. “The good thing about it is that we had first information, first hand knowledge about what is actually going on in our system. I think if by the grace of God we get out of this pandemic, everybody has to thing what we are going to do about hunger in our land.”  