Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State fought off his predecessor, Rabiu Kwankwaso, to consolidate on his political power, writes ABDULLAHI YAKUBU For ardent watchers of the politics in Kano State, it would seem like the state governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, has largely consolidated his dominance on the political sphere of the state. With the Supreme Court ruling which affirmed his 2019 electoral mandate, Ganduje has defeated his predecessor and estranged political ally, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso in the battle for supremacy which dragged for the better part of the last four years. Events that unfolded in the build up to the 2019 general elections in Kano as well as the legal tussles, capture the tale of how Ganduje got the upper hand in the state even though some pundits opined that Kwankwaso’s inability to manage his return to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) properly played a critical part in his loss in the political battle with his successor. The 2019 election in Kano was on the premise that the two major political players in the state at the time, Kwankwaso, then a member of the 8th Senate and  Ganduje were operating on different political frequencies despite belonging to the same political party, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Belonging to the same political platform did not stop their sour relationship from spilling into their politics such that Kwankwaso had to stay away from Kano to avoid tension in the state. As the senator representing Kano Central, he stayed in Abuja for most part of his tenure. As the dispute defiled all attempts at reconciliation, Kwankwaso alongside 13 other APC senators that decamped to PDP in July 2018. This move charged the political climate in Kano. However as Kwankwaso left the APC, the PDP was under the leadership of another former governor Ibrahim Shekarau, a renowned political opponent of Kwankwaso. But there was the Aminu Wali camp as well. Nevertheless, as leader of a political movement called Kwankwasiyya, most pundits aver that his embracing the PDP in the state brought vigor to the party as he asked followers to join the party. But his return sparked off internal crises in PDP which required lots of expertise to manage. Whether he would be able to work with Shekarau became topical. Questions like who would lead the party and who would determine who flies the party’s flag in the state arose. But with the influence of the national leadership of the party, the Kwankwasiyya movement had the upper hand. He got 51 per cent of party positions while the 49 percent was left for other camps. More so, a caretaker committee was formed and chaired by a leading Kwankwasiyya loyalist, Rabiu Sulaiman Bichi. Also, the new move to create a political force against the ruling APC in the state using the PDP swallowed another Kwankwasiyya loyalist and deputy governor of the state, Professor Hafiz Abubakar. He resigned his position as deputy governor in August 2018 and joined Kwankwaso in the PDP.  He said he decided to defect to PDP “in compliance with his godfather, Rabiu Kwankwaso,” a former governor of the state who earlier defected to PDP. Hoping to cling the governorship candidate in the PDP, Abubakar was disappointed as he was not considered for governorship in the PDP as well. His vacant position came to be occupied by the commissioner for Agriculture, Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna a Ganduje loyalist who was confirmed as the deputy to the state by the state’s House Assembly in September 2018. Earlier in July 2018, Kwankwaso made effort to reconcile with his longtime political adversary Ibrahim Shekarau whom he visited at his residence in Abuja but it didn’t work as Shekarau who had lost political relevance for a while in the state later chose to decamp from the PDP to the ruling APC and prepare to take over the senate seat of Kwankwaso with whom they come from the same senatorial zone. This became a political plus for governor Ganduje as Shekarau and his people now make the APC even stronger than it was. He said he decided to leave PDP due to the injustice the national leadership of the party meted against the state leadership of the PDP. Shekarau said the main reason for taking this decision is due to the concession of 51 per cent of the party’s leadership structure from state to ward level to a presidential aspirant, Kwankwaso, who recently decamped to the party. Kwankwaso had put his political weight behind Abba Kabir Yusuf anointing him as gubernatorial candidate of the PDP. Yusuf served under Kwankwaso as the commissioner for works when he was governor. He is also said to be his in-law. But his candidacy was challenged. In April 2019, the Court of Appeal sitting in Kaduna upheld Yusuf’s appeal which challenged a Federal High Court order that sacked him as PDP’s governorship candidate in the state. He was then confirmed as the PDP candidate. This angered some stalwarts in the PDP aspiring for governorship ticket in the state. Prominent among  them is Salisu Takai, who also moved to PRP to become the governorship candidate of the party in the state. He was seen to be over-ambitious when he refused Kwankwaso’s offer for him to go for Senate and insisted he wanted to be governor. On the other hand, the APC candidate and incumbent governor, Ganduje had no contest becoming the governorship candidate under the ruling APC. Kwankwaso on the other hand never attempted to contest for his senate seat which was taken over by Shakarau in the 2019 election. The turmoil within the PDP helped strengthen the ruling APC in the state especially those that turned back on the Kwankwasiyya that took over the PDP. They joined the APC and supported the second term of governor Ganduje while they accused Kwankwaso of imposing his personal whims on the PDP in the state. Still, the election which took place in March 2019 was keenly contested. The election was marred by a lot of discrepancies and was subsequently declared inconclusive. According to the collation officer, the total number of votes cancelled during the election which led to the declaration of the poll as inconclusive was beyond the margin between the PDP candidate who was leading with 26,000 votes and that of the APC candidate. Kabir had 1,014,474 against Ganduje who garnered 987,819 votes in the March 9 election. The supplementary election was fixed to take place within three weeks and the APC went to work to correct its mistakes and regain its seat. The supplementary election took place and governor Ganduje was declared winner. Declaring the winner of the election, the collation officer in Kano State, Prof. Bello Shehu, said that the APC candidate garnered 1,033,695, while that of PDP, Abba Kabir, scored 1,024,713 votes. He said that the APC candidate defeated the PDP candidate with 8,982 votes margin and therefore declared Ganduje the winner, having satisfied the requirements of the law by scoring the highest number of votes. According to Shehu, the winner was declared after the collation of results from all the affected 28 local government areas where the supplementary elections was conducted on Saturday, March 23. Not satisfied with the result, Yusuf took his case to the elections petition tribunal where he lost on technical grounds. Not satisfied with the decision he appealed further and the case was thrown out. Finally the Supreme court affirms Abdullahi Umar Ganduje as the Kano state Governor. Immediately the news spread in town that Ganduje emerged victorious as thousands of party faithful troop to the Government House in celebration. Ganduje addressed the press, declaring that he has forgiven Kwankwaso and all other who have been battling to nail him and push him into political oblivion. Noting that he is not the type that keeps malice for anything done to him, the governor added, “I have forgiven all my detractors including my political friend Dr Rabiu Kwankwaso and all those who have supported him to nail me down.” He said the opposition had not done anything wrong for maintaining a dogged stance on the verdict of the gubernatorial election. They were simply pursuing their rights in a democratic means by going to the Tribunal, to the Appellate Court, and later supreme courts. Ganduje stated further that the judiciary was the final arbiter of the common man and it behoves on anybody to confront the legal minds on anything he felt was not done according to the provision of the law. “I am indeed grateful to the Judiciary for their foresight in dealing with the nitty-gritty of the case and for giving every one chance to exercise his franchise.” Ganduje said now that the legal battle is over ”it is high time that the opposition should come forward to rally round the government in order work for the actualisation of a greater Kano.” The governor said “we have  enormous work before us to take Kano to the next level and we need the collective efforts of all and sundry to achieved. “What we are saying is that our doors will be widely open for all Kano sons and daughters cutting across party affiliations. When we talk about free education and compulsory we are not talking about sons of APC but including that of PDP and other parties.” In his reaction, Kwankwaso, in a video clip where he addressed the PDP Kwankwassiya wing expressed disenchantment over the sad development. “We are cheated and we will continue to pray badly to all those from the judiciary and politicians who have connived to deny us our mandate. ”In fact, we never forgive them now and till the hereafter we won’t relent in our struggle to make sure that we forward our case to the all-knowing” On his part the former PDP chairman, Senator Mas’ ud El jibrin Doguwa who defected to APC a week to the gubernatorial election said the verdict that saw the emergence of Ganduje victorious was the expectation of the people of Kano State. He said anything short of that could have been described as miscarriage of justice. However, state chairman of the PDP and former  secretary to the state government (SSG), Alhaji Rabiu Sulaiman Bichi was not pleased with the outcome of the verdict. On his part, a onetime caretaker chairman of the PDP  in the state, Comrade Amjnu Sa’ ad Beli who spoke on behalf of Late Alhaji Abubakar Rimi’s flank of the party, said, “we saw it coming because Dr Kwankwaso has caused all the problems that led to the division in the PDP as we are seeing today. “He has through his greediness chased away Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, from the PDP and belittled the NPN flank of Aminu  Bashir Wali and today the ruling  APC compensated him by appointing Sadiq Wali his biological son as  the Commissioner of Water resources. He added that, “We that are still practicing Rimi’s ideology maintain our stance by voting our party during the gubernatorial election and that is why we cannot think of working with the opposition government based on the invitation of the governor.” With this victory at the court, Ganduje has since affirmed his political supremacy in the state. For pundits, humbling the Kwankwasiyya movement which hitherto was seen as unstoppable because of its potency in the 2015 general election in many states of the North was insightful and instructive.