Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule has disclosed that13 persons returning from Kano and Lagos, who claimed to come from Nasarawa State, would be isolated in one of the isolation centres in the state. Sule made this known yesterday while delivering his opening remarks at a meeting with traditional rulers and some religious leaders, at the Government House, Lafia. He further disclosed that already, 43 persons returning from Lagos were intercepted in Akwanga, on their way to Shendam in Plateau State. He explained that having gotten in touch with his colleague in Jos, the returnees were escorted to Jos where they were isolated. Five of the arrested persons however escaped into the bush after their vehicle stopped in the forest, on the way to Jos. “Even if they are our relations, as long as they are returning home from Lagos or Kano, we will go ahead and isolate them and test them,” Sule stated. The governor disclosed plans to henceforth isolate for the mandatory 14 days, citizens of the state returning from either Lagos or Kano states. He said it has become necessary to take this step because of the alarming increase in the spread of the dreaded pandemic, as well as the need to protect the people of the state against the virus. While lamenting that instead of subsiding, the coronavirus is unfortunately spreading fast, with now Katsina and Kano states also under total lockdown, he stressed however that the case that is a major source of concern for the state, is the increasing number of persons that tested positive to COVID-19 in the FCT. He disclosed that in an earlier meeting, he sought the cooperation of the chairmen of local government areas from across the state, to ensure that returnees from Lagos and Kano are isolated before being allowed into the larger society. The governor equally used the opportunity of the meeting, to further appeal to traditional rulers, led by the chairman of the Nasarawa State Traditional Council and Emir of Lafia, HRH Justice Sidi Bage (rtd), to ensure that returnees from the two aforementioned states, are isolated.  