The chief of staff to the president, Abba Kyari passed away on Friday due to  complications from Covid -19 infection. Already, momentum has gathered on who are the likely candidates to replace Abba Kyari. The late  chief of staff is regarded as one of the driving forces of the Buhari administration. During the inauguration of his cabinet, President Buhari directed the incoming ministers to channel all requests for meetings with him through his chief of staff. Instructively, the roles and responsibilities of the chief of staff and the method of communication and arranging meetings between cabinet members and the president in Nigeria are based on the US model where the same system operates. The chief of staff  roles is to act as the head of the presidential administration in Aso Rock, to be an adviser to the president on any and all matters, to be the line manager for all staff at Aso Rock, and to manage appointments and scheduling for the president. It is a primary function of a chief of staff, which may vary according to the needs and desires of each president, to supervise key State House staff, control access to the office and the person of the president and manage communications and information flow, which might include that which binds the relationship with the two other arms of government. Hameed Ali The current custom boss is in the forefront of candidates that will likely replace Abba Kyari . He is a Buharist to the core and was acting as the Buhari ‘s chief of staff before he became president. He has performed fairly well as the custom boss and he is another person who understands the person of the president. He was also a coordinator of the Buhari support group since 2003. The 65 year old retired military officer, previously served as Military Governor of Kaduna State from 1996 to 1998. After retirement, he became secretary of the Arewa Consultative Forum – a political and cultural association of leaders in Northern Nigeria.  Babagana Kingibe He is also touted to be the next chief of staff to the president. The former vice presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party( SDP) in the June 12,1993 presidential elections is one of the members of the president’s kitchen cabinet. Although presently he holds no position in Buhari’s administration, he is touted to be very influential decision maker behind the scenes . The 74 year old is also from Borno State and served as Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1993 to 1995, Minister of Internal Affairs from 1995 to 1997, Minister of Power and Steel from 1997 to 1998; and Secretary to the Government of the Federation from 2007 to 2008.  Adamu Adamu The minister of education, Adamu Adamu is also regarded as a Buharist and one of the likely persons to succeed Abba Kyari .Before Buhari became president, he was one of the speech writers of the president. Gentle, taciturn and efficient , Adamu fits the bill. He was also an  accountant, writer, former journalist, public analyst and a Minister of Education.He was first appointed minister by President Muhammadu Buhari on November 2015, along with 35 others, when the president made his first major appointments.Before his appointment as minister, he was the secretary of Muhammadu Buhari’s transition committee.He was reappointed on 21 August 2019as Minister of Education by President  Buhari.  Suleiman Adamu The current minister of Water resources , Suleiman Adamu is regarded as one of the closest ministers  to President Buhari . He  was born on the 19th of April 1963. He hails from Kazaure Local Government Area of Jigawa State. He graduated from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, in 1984 with a Bachelor of Engineering (Second Class Upper Honours) in Civil Engineering; and also obtained a Master of Science degree in (Construction) Project Management from University of Reading, United Kingdom in 2004. He also worked with President Buhari during the Petroleum Task Fund ( PTF) days during the administration of the late Gen Sani Abacha . Adamu is a policy researcher and political administrator. He served as National Vice Chairman (North West), for the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), from 2010 – 2013; and had served in leading positions in several party committees and Presidential Campaign Councils of Buhari-Okadigbo (2003), Buhari-Ume-Ezeoke (2007), Buhari-Bakare (2011), and Buhari-Osinbajo (2015). He co-prepared The Buhari Programme 2003, The Buhari Programme 2007 and The Buhari Programme for Change 2011. 