Over 80,000 applications from Nigerians have been received for the Central Bank of Nigeria-funded N50billion Covid-19 loan facility for small-scale businesses and households affected by the Coronavirus pandemic. The N50 billion targeted credit facility is a CBN stimulus package created to support households and MSMEs affected by the COVID-I9 scourge. The objective of the credit facility to be disbursed through NIRSAL Microfinance Bank is to allow firms stay in business, ensure that people stay employed and mitigate harm on the economy. Managing Director/CEO of the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank, Mr Abubakar Abdullahi Kure, said the bank received 40,000 of the applications from vulnerable households, with others spread among other qualified categories. In a media briefing yesterday in Abuja, the NIRSAL MD said the bank will commence the disbursement of the N50billion targeted credit facility to eligible businesses and households next week. Kure also announced the bank’s resolve that the previous requirement of business plan from applicants was no longer a mandatory requirement for the public to access the loan facility. He added that the third party provision of a business plan was also no longer compulsory. Kure said despite the lockdown, his workers are working remotely to process the applications so that beneficiaries can begin to get alerts next week. He also debunked claims in some quarters that the bank was charging application processing fee from applicants. “The CBN does not charge any application fee on COVID-19 Loan, neither does NIRSAL MFB,” he said. The MD however said that people with quality business plan will make the processing of their applications easier and faster. According to him, the reason is because those who don’t have their cash flow profile to determine their chances of getting the loans as a business must demonstrate the capacity to pay back the loan. “It’s a loan and not a grant. Your bank statement can give us an idea of your capacity to borrow and your capacity to pay. However businesses that can develop a business plan will make our job easier so we can efficiently and quickly process those loan requests”, he explained. He said the challenge with those submitting account statements is that most of the statements are not current due to the lockdown.  PMB Receives N21 EU Donation, Vows To Rejig Health Sector President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday commended the European Union for donating the sum of N21billion (50 million Euros) to support Nigeria’s efforts at controlling the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Receiving the EU delegation to the country led by Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, President Buhari said the donation would go a long way in supporting Nigeria’s efforts at controlling and containing the virus to prevent community spread, as well as revitalise the national health care systems. The president consoled the government and people of Nigeria to EU-member countries and families who lost their loved ones as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families, friends and communities impacted. We are confident from history that the resilience of Europe and our global collective will enable us to emerge stronger from this tragedy. “Although the EU is facing significant challenges due to this pandemic, I am indeed touched and grateful that the European Union still had the vision and foresight to remember its friends, partners and allies across the world”. The President also lauded EU on the recent launch of the “Team Europe” package to support countries in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic and its consequences. Buhari noted that the intervention, which is a collaboration between EU, its member states, and financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, would go a long way in ensuring the impact of this pandemic was controlled and contained. ‘‘Indeed, this brotherly support will save millions of lives. Nigeria, Africa and many beneficiary countries across the world will remain grateful for generations to come”. The President told the delegation that his administration had done a lot to date in the fight against COVID-19. ‘‘So far, the number of confirmed cases in Nigeria is 343. Our efforts as a Government have focused on controlling and containing the virus to prevent community spread. I want to assure you that in this fight, Nigerians are united and by the grace of God and the continued support from our partners, we shall succeed,’’ he said. In his remarks, Ambassador Karlsen described the donation, channelled through the UN COVID-19 basket fund as, so far, the largest single contribution to the response in Nigeria and the largest support that EU is providing anywhere outside Europe. ‘‘We heard your call for assistance and the EU has reacted swiftly as a demonstration of our true partnership,’’ he said. The EU Ambassador congratulated the President for ‘‘a very powerful address to the nation last night’’, stressing ‘‘indeed the current situation is no joke and we wish to commend you for taking bold and necessary measures.’’ He also announced that the Union was mobilising other sources of funding, noting that they have already paid 1.2 million Euros to UNICEF, and goods purchased through that funding are expected in the country soon. EU’s funding for Nigeria is aimed at ensuring optimum care for the confirmed cases of the virus, while containing further spread through an inclusive, national response. Commissioner for International Partnerships, Jutta Urpilainen stressed that “COVID-19 must be fought globally. She said the EU support is focused on the people most at risk, adding that Africa and Nigeria are vital priorities, and must not be forgotten or left alone. “Now more than ever we want to show solidarity with our partners,” she stated. She continued: “The funding will be channeled through the One UN COVID-19 Basket Fund launched in concert with the Nigerian authorities during the week. “The EU intervention will focus on the 10 key pillars of the National COVID-19 Response Plan, including coordination, socio-economic measures, such as cash transfers or food distribution to vulnerable groups, scaling up surveillance, testing, isolation, contact tracing, personal protection equipment for medical staff, disinfectants for medical facilities, risk communication, community engagement, clinical management of the critically unwell COVID-19 patients”.  UN Medical Equipment Arrives In Nigeria Meanwhile, Aviation minister, Hadi Sirika, yesterday took delivery of medical equipment donated by the United Nations Systems to the federal government to aid its efforts at combating the coronavirus scourge in the country. The minister, who took the delivery on behalf of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja, expressed the appreciation of the Nigerian government to the United Nations and Allied Air Cargo for transporting the equipment free of charge to Abuja. According to Sirika, the equipment, which included 50 ventilators, will go a long way in boosting the nation’s capacity to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.  Speaking earlier, the United Nations resident coordinator for Nigeria, Edward Kallon, noted that the consignment that is likely to be the first of several to come includes 50 A30 ventilators and personal protective supplies. He said it was procured with funds from the recently launched COVID-19 Basket Fund, including USD $2 million mobilised within the UN system in Nigeria and a USD $200,000 contribution from APM Terminals. He said that the arrival of the medical equipment and supplies will be a boost to government’s efforts to provide an efficient and effective healthcare response for those affected by the virus. The UN resident coordinator observed that the supplies will be deployed around the country to health facilities in most need due to the outbreak and coordination structures are already in place between the Government and the UN to ensure urgent deployment. He said, “The next shipment of personal protective equipment (PPE) expected to arrive in Nigeria later this month. The world is in the midst of an unprecedented crisis. The spread of the COVID-19 is expected to put immense pressure on Nigeria’s healthcare system. “The UN in Nigeria is actively mobilising resources in support of the Government’s national response strategy of containing the pandemic and adequately caring for those confirmed to have the virus.”  FG Traces 9,029 Contacts, Says 73% Of Cases Are Male Meanwhile, the federal government said it has made significant progress in contact tracing and have to date followed up 9,029 persons of interest. It said 99 per cent of 9,029 contacts have exceeded their 14-day observation period. Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who stated this at the Presidential Task Force (PTF) briefing on COVID 19,] yesterday in Abuja, stated that the most affected age bracket was between 31-60 years. Ehanire said that the increase in cases was due to more testing of persons, adding that the country currently has the capacity to test about 1500 persons each day for COVID19 with its 12 testing laboratories across the six geo-political zones. He said they have increased daily testing capacity by activating more COVID-19 capable laboratories and will work with the private sector to outsource and diversify sample collection sites and also improve logistic support. The minister stated: “We are gathering more epidemiological information on coronavirus disease, such as understanding sources of new cases and planning new lines of action. We shall continue to aggressively pursue our policy to detect, test and isolate cases. “We have early evidence of community transmission already, which reinforces the urgency of physical distancing, use of face masks, maintenance of hand and respiratory hygiene, as well as strict adherence to the lockdown measures and regulations as announced by President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday”. He urged persons with symptoms of the Virus to submit themselves for testing and subsequent treatment.  Provide Essential Services, FG Urges Banks The federal government has equally appealed to banks in the country to continue to give skeletal services to Nigerians as the lockdown continues to curb the spread of COVID-19. National coordinator of the Presidential Task Force (PTF), Dr Sani Aliyu, made the appeal yesterday during the daily media briefing by the task force in Abuja. He also appealed to Muslims across the country to continue to honour all the preventive measures issued against COVID-19 as the Ramadan fasting commences. Aliyu explained that the reason for the extension of the lockdown announced by President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday was to help Nigeria interrupt the further spread of the virus in the country. On the closure of banks, he recalled that there was an exemption for banks to provide skeletal services, even as he appealed to the banks in the country to start addressing this concern. He said, “When we implemented the cessation of movement policy two weeks ago, we did make an exemption for banks to be allowed to engage in skeletal services and following that, the financial authorities released additional guidelines to the banks. “We are appealing to the banks please continue to provide financial services, especially the availability of cash at the ATM and skeletal services within the banking halls. “What is important for us is for banks to comply with our advice in terms of reducing mass gatherings, having hands disinfectants at the entrance point, monitoring of temperature and making sure that they observe the physical distancing measures that we have advised”.  FG Fires Firm Over Delay Of Cash Transfer To 4 States Meanwhile, the federal government has directed the immediate termination of the contract for a payment service provider (PSP) for failure to meet the contractual agreement to commence conditional cash transfer to beneficiaries in four states of the federation assigned to the PSP. The minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, said the affected states are Bayelsa and Akwa Ibom in the South South, Abia in the South East and Zamfara in the North West. Farouq said while the immediate termination of the contract would be with the guidance of the World Bank, a new procurement process would be launched using World Bank procurement guidelines to ensure that payments commence  in the affected states on or before April 28, 2020. The minister said that the federal government cannot accept delays in the current payment round of N20,000 stipends to beneficiaries in poor and vulnerable households under any excuses in the four states or any other state of the federation. “The failure of any payment service providers to meet their contractual agreement is unacceptable. The Federal Government through the Ministry cannot allow contractors to derail the immediate Conditional cash transfers to the poor and the vulnerable,” the Minister added.  NASS Insists On Better Management Of Fund Meanwhile, the leadership of the National Assembly has said there should be more coordination in the management of donations received from individuals and organisations in support of the fight against coronavirus. Senate President Ahmed Lawan made the call yesterday in an interview with State House correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari alongside. Lawan who was accompanied by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to see the president said, “The leadership of the National Assembly has been holding series of meetings with ministers and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. This afternoon we had an engagement with the president to discuss with him what we have resolved as leaders of the National Assembly and our opinion on various issues regarding the fight against COVID-19 in Nigeria as well as going forward. “For example, the various donations that we are receiving should go into a single account and should have a fund management committee that would be in charge of releases. Accountability and transparency require that we have that separation. “It is also an opportunity for us to commend Nigerians and corporate bodies that have given us donations but we believe there should be more coordination as far as the management of the funds donated is concerned.” Lawan also commended the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for working hard to address the challenge confronting the nation. “I believe the Presidential Task Force is doing a very good job. They have been very proactive and they deserve our commendation,” he said. The Senate President also called for a review of the way the social investment programme was being implemented so as to reach more Nigerians, especially the category of people the programme was meant for. “We also believe that it is time to reform the way and manner we implement the social investment programme. This is a very important programme that is meant to help poor and vulnerable Nigerians and we believe that having implemented it for four years or more, we should be reviewing to evaluate the efficiency with which we have been implementing the programme. “I believe that we also need to legislate on how to fight poverty in Nigeria because this is one issue that has been there for quite some time and therefore there is need for us to have a very clear and well spelt out processes and procedures on how to tackle poverty. “There should be very little or no room for discretion so that we have a programme that will be very transparent and should go deep down to those who really deserve to have the support and should be such an equitable and fair programme as far the geographical spread across the country is concerned”. The Senate President said the National Assembly was on standby to reconvene and thrash the issue of the N500 billion stimulus package on cushioning the effects of COVID-19 proposed by government, when presented to it. On his part, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Gbajabiamila, said they discussed the issue of providing free electricity for Nigerians as a result of the lockdown on COVID-19 so as to make them more comfortable as they stay at home. He noted: “You know I am very passionate about electricity for our people. Interestingly I brought it up today and we discussed that with the president and hopefully in a matter of days he will meet with the stakeholders on electricity. “I impressed on him my position. The DISCOs have their issues, no question about it, but at this point in time we need to put that aside and think of the Nigerian people. “The President listened very attentively and I think hopefully whatever the issues are we will be able to resolve them, at least for these two months and then long-term. How electricity will not be an issue but what is imperative right now is when you ask people to remain at home, you must make that home a little bit comfortable for them”.  