In view of the gradual easing of the COVID-19 lockdown both globally and in Nigeria, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has resumed the provision of foreign exchange to all commercial banks for onward sales to parents wishing to pay schools fees and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to import needed materials to revamp economic activities in the country. For a start, the CBN will provide over $100 million per week for both categories, it said in a statement yesterday. The apex bank has completed arrangements to resume foreign exchange sales to the BDC segment of the market for business travels, personal travels, and other designated retail uses, as soon as international flights resume. With these actions, the CBN reiterated that it was adequately meeting the needs of all legitimate users, and “ our continued capacity to do so should not be in doubt,” its spokesman, Isaac Okorafor, said in the statement. Okorafor said that there was no need for panic by any end-user that could necessitate recourse to illegitimate sources and spike in foreign exchange rates. Given this, Okorafor said the bank had ramped up its surveillance of the foreign exchange market for speculators, smugglers and other illegal users, and will take decisive actions against anyone/institutions involved in such nefarious activities. 24 States Get N43.416bn Under W/Bank-assisted Programme. Meanwhile, the federal government has disbursed N43.416 billion as performance-based grants to 24 eligible states on the basis of the results achieved in 2018. Mr. Hassan Dodo, the director of Press and Public Relations in the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning made this known in a statement he issued in Abuja yesterday. Dodo said that the minister of Finance, Mrs Zainab Ahmed had explained that the fund was under the performance-based grant component of the World Bank-sssisted States Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability (SFTAS) Programme-for-Results. Ahmed said that the project was wholly-financed with a loan amount of $750 million from the International Development Association (IDA), a member of the World Bank Group. She added that the disbursement followed the participation of the 24 states in the recent Annual Performance Assessment (APA) carried out by the Office of the Auditor General for the Federation (OAuGF). OAuGF is an Independent Verification Agent (IVA) in collaboration with a third party firm, JK Consulting Limited and the SFTAS Programme Coordination Unit (PCU). The minister stated that the SFTAS Programme was established by the federal government with the concessional loan of $750 million dollars to support states through the provision of performance-based grants to states to the tune of $700 million. Ahmed named the  beneficiary states as Abia, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Delta, Edo, Ekiti, Enugu, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna,  Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Niger, Ondo, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Sokoto, Taraba, and Yobe States. 