The organiser of African Utility Week and PowerGen Africa has announced that a free, virtual conference will take place in May. Event director, Evan Schiff, said “Although the event was recently postponed to November, we recognise that the need for information, expert opinion and connection with your peers and customers is required now. “We have therefore created a Virtual African Utility Week and PowerGen Africa, that will bring our partners in the power, energy and water sectors timeous content to answer their most pressing concerns now.” “The event is a completely free initiative, open and available to any interested parts of the sector. It is our way to offer both our long time partners and friends as well as new acquaintances the opportunity to learn, connect and engage.” As always, the event will feature world-class speakers, an insightful programme and business matchmaking opportunities, albeit online.” The live online event will take place from 11-15 May and the programme will include topics like exploring private sector participation in African power and water sector. Others are: Maintenance: key to keeping the lights on; best practices for utilities’ financial health worldwide:  How to better plan for the unexpected; and Investment opportunities for South African SMMEs working in the green economy. Other topics are: Solutions for City and Municipal revenue management, Adopting new behaviours to influence emissions across Africa, The energy transition for Africa in a post Covid-19 world, energy access matters, and impact of Covid-19 on Africa’s water sector key considerations in smart grid and metering communication committed to power and water sectors “While at this stage the Covid-19 epidemic’s lasting economic impact is still unknown,” said the African Utility Week and Powergen Africa event director, “African economies are expected to be hit the hardest and there can be no doubt that the effects on all aspects of the economy will be keenly felt. The public sector utilities delivering crucial electricity and water services as well as the companies servicing these sectors, ranging from multinationals to SMMEs, will not be spared either. 2020 is our event’s 20th anniversary and we remain committed to the African power and water sectors and we are excited to explore new digital formats to support connections across the continent.” 