Mixed reactions have trailed the decision of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) to ask corporates deemed to be booming during the Coronavirus induced lockdown to pay their taxes before the due date as Nigerians took to social media to express their opinion. The official twitter handle of the FIRS had last week posted a circular signed by its executive chairman, Muhammad Nami, titled “update on Palliative Measures to Cushion Effect of Covid-19 on Taxpayers”, which did not go down well with some Nigerians. Nami, in the circular had appealed “to a section of taxpayers whose sectors are experiencing a boom and significant increase of income at this point in time, for a high level of cooperation in payment of their taxes. “We wish to acknowledge that some sectors such as telcos, financial institutions, e-commerce, supermarkets, manufacturers/processors of certain products, etc are experiencing boom due to increased transactions as a result of the lockdown or even despite the pandemic. “I wish to specially make an appeal to corporate bodies in the sectors mentioned above to go the extra mile at this time to cooperate with us in making special arrangements to pay their taxes. They may consider, for instance a situation where they can commence payment of their annual returns earlier than the due date apart from their normal monthly obligations. This has become necessary in order to ease some of the cash flow gaps being experienced by the government at this critical time” the circular read. While, some have commended the move by the FIRS, calling on telcos to step up to the challenge, some others condemned to decision of the FIRS. Former managing director of the Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria, Mustapha Chike-Obi commenting via his twitter handle said “this is unbelievable. “Hasn’t he heard about tax anticipation bonds? Governments or municipalities issue bonds in anticipation of tax revenues and dedicate the taxes when received to repay the bonds.” Also, financial analyst, Olufemi Awoyemi, said “wondering how they determined businesses doing so well during a pandemic: and off that premise managed to miss out relief for those affected… as tax collection, not administration mindset.” A tweeter user was unhappy as the government is using FIRS to tax companies that are barely surviving, as another, Adeyanju Micheal noted that FIRS “reported to have generated about 15 per cent increase in the last quarter compared to last year. Why are they not thinking of incentives when global economy isn’t smiling?” Another twitter user, Dr Olawale said “one would expect the FIRS to give them tax cuts so that Telecoms can slash the prices of data and other services, which is in high demand at the moment, directly bringing relief to the Nigerian citizen.” However, Obinna Nwosu on his twitter handle was in support of the decision of the FIRS saying “Nigerian Banks and Telcos are reporting huge profits in Q1 2020. Presently, we all buy recharge card from our banks, they have collected the commission of “daily bread” sellers sitting hungry at home due to COVID-19. FIRS should go and collect taxes from Banks and Telcos cashing out.”