Living Faith Church popularly known as Winners’ Chapel International has presented relief materials to the Ogun State government to curtail the spread of coronavirus. The items, which included a state-of-the-art Toyota Ambulance bus with capacity for first aid test and treatment of infected persons or on emergency resulting from the infection. The items also include 20 cartons of latex hand gloves (10 boxes per carton), 10 cartons of disposable face masks (40 boxes per carton), 40 pieces of infrared thermometer (gun-shaped type), 500 pieces of personal protective device (PPE) Hazmat suit, 2 boxes of pulse oximeter (10 per box), and two cartons of blood pressure monitor (10 per carton). The presiding bishop of the church, Dr. David Oyedepo, who handed the items over to the state government, said that they were part of the church’s support to Ogun state’s efforts at taming COVID-19 in the state. Oyedepo, who was represented by the resident pastor of Faith Tabernacle, Ota, David Oyedepo Jnr commended the efforts of Governor Dapo Abiodun at curbing the spread of the disease. The cleric expressed optimism that Coronavirus would soon be a thing of the past on the country, saying “I am confident that with the prayers of the Saints across the nations of the earth and particularly in Nigeria that God will bring a sudden end to the scourge of Coronavirus.” “As a nation, we remain committed to partnering with the government in this fight to bring an end to the threat to humanity. To this end, we are extending the following material support to boost the management and tackling of COVID-19 menace in Ogun State.”  “We have come for the purpose of demonstrating our solidarity to the Ogun state government in the battle against COVID-19 which has been a global pandemic. We are all in the same fight together in driving towards victory and we trust God that at the end of the day we will have a song of victory.”  Receiving the items on behalf of the state, the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele commended the Church for the generous donation and reiterated the government’s commitment to partnering religious organisation and individuals in the curtailing the spread of the virus.  She called on other private individuals, religious leaders and other well -meaning Nigerians to support the government in its fight of ridding the state of the virus.  The Ogun deputy governor noted that the items would go a long way in helping the state in the fight against the spread of COVID-19.  