Oyo state chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed rude shock at the demise of ex-Nigeria’s Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Chief Richard Abimbola Isuolale Akinjide SAN, who died early Tuesday morning at a very old age of 88 years.  The party in a statement co-signed by the state chairman, Alhaji Kunmi Mustapha, Secretary, Alhaji Wasiu Adeleke and state publicity secretary, Akeem Olatunji, and made available to pressmen, described late Chief Richard Akinjide as a staunch party faithful and one of the founding fathers of PDP in Nigeria adding that he was a great pillar of the party in Oyo state.  The party stated that the death of the former Attorney General of the Federation was a big blow to the entire PDP family in Oyo State and Nigeria at large, stressing that regardless of his very old age, the party always relied on his wealth of wisdom and experience in managing state and national affairs within the party.  PDP described the death of Chief Akinjide as an irreplaceable loss and prayed that God grant the Akinjide family the fortitude to bear the irredeemable loss.  According to the statement, late chief Akinjide was an accomplished man whose children such as Oloye Jumoke Akinjide have also been a huge blessing to Oyo State and Nigeria.  The party, however expressed its joy in the legacies of the late legal luminary such as Oloye Jumoke Akinjide who is also a great leader and a pillar of PDP in Oyo State, adding that even though the party will continue to miss the wise counsel of the great politician, it took consolation in his legacies and contributions to humanity.  Also, the Olugbon Of Orile Igbon, Ogbomosho Zone, Vice Chairman, Oyo State Obas Council &Chiefs, Oyo State, Oba Francis Olushola Alao has described Akinjide’s death as a great loss to the Akinjide’s family, Oyo State and Nigeria as a whole.  “He was one of the greatest brain in the law profession. I will qualify Chief Akinjide as law technocrat and revered elder statesman . He was from Olugbon dynasty during our last conversation. “Omo Olugbon Agbe’ Adeu !!!  “May his gentle soul rest in perfect peace. He will be greatly missed. Almighty will console , comfort and preserve all that he left behind most importantly his entire family”  the monarch said. 