The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has extended the validity of Statutory and Trading certificates for all Nigerian Registered vessels including Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping (STCW) certificates for seafarers issued by the agency. The director-general of NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh, who made this known at the agency’s head office in Lagos, said NIMASA remained committed to implementing its mandates during the COVID-19 crisis. Jamoh said it was necessary to ensure uninterrupted shipping, despite the pandemic, stressing that shipping is one of the major ways of moving medical aid across the globe. “Our determination to ensure that shipping continues during this trying time remains unwavering and this is why we have continued to come up with measures to keep the global shipping chain moving in line with the recommendations of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO),” Jamoh stated. He said the agency was aware of the difficulties seafarers would be facing and the need to keep them in job even beyond the pandemic, saying this has necessitated the Agency’s publication of a notice to extend their certificates and other statutory certificates that would ensure uninterrupted shipping. According to Jamoh, “One of our major priorities is to keep our seafarers in job while not jeopardising their safety in terms of contracting the deadly virus. We have, therefore, come up with a notice that would extend the validity of their certificates, for those of them that might be expiring soon. We have also issued guidelines that would regulate crew change during this pandemic.” Expatiating on the notice issued by NIMASA, Jamoh disclosed that following IMO’s recent guidelines on the certification of seafarers and fishing vessel personnel, the agency had extended the validity of relevant certificates, including STCW; Mandatory and Safety certificates; and Certificates of medical fitness. Others are the Statutory and Trading Certificates related to SOLAS ’74 as amended, MARPOL 73/78 as amended, Certificates of Ship Registry, National requirements for Power Driven Small Crafts (PDSC), and MLC, 2006, as amended. He said the extension will apply to all Nigerian flagged vessels and seafarers sailing on-board Nigerian flagged vessels, as well as seafarers with Nigerian Certificate of Competency who are sailing on foreign flagships. Jamoh said the extensions would enable Owners and Masters of Ships to permit personnel to continue performing their duties in view of the COVID-I9 pandemic and the nation-wide lockdown in Nigeria. The NIMASA DG charged Owners and Masters to report any deficiency that may affect the approved capacity and performance standards of all Fire Fighting Appliances (FFA), Life Saving Appliances (LSA) on-board vessels. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, shipping has been the focus of attention in major maritime nations and NIMASA has continuously issued guidelines aimed at preventing adverse effects on the Nigerian shipping industry. STOAN Rejects Truck Movement Guidelines At Seaports Terminal operators operating at the Lagos seaports have raised the alarm over imminent port congestion and worsening traffic gridlock on the port corridor due to the recent guidelines rolled out by the Presidential Task Team on Apapa gridlock. In a statement yesterday, the terminal operators under the aegis of Seaports Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN), said the new guideline is a recipe for chaos, which will further compound traffic congestion on the port access roads and exacerbate port congestion. STOAN in a press statement by its spokesman, Bolaji Akinola and a copy made available to LEADERSHIP, said the task team’s vice chairman, Kayode Opeifa, drew up the guidelines without inputs from critical stakeholders especially truck operators, terminal operators and shipping companies and without regards for prevailing cargo backlog at the nation’s seaports. “It is clear that this task team has outlived its relevance, and its operations are not in tandem with the realities on ground in Apapa. The federal government deliberately left the port open so as to keep the flow of essential supplies to Nigerians at this difficult times going, but the task team has come up with guidelines that suppress the timely evacuation of cargoes at the port. “Is the task team aware that Apapa is a port city? Why then is Mr Opeifa creating guidelines that restrict the movement of trucks evacuating cargoes at the port? Is this not contrary to the position of the federal government that the logistics and supply chain should not be interrupted?” STOAN queried in the statement. The association said it rejects “in totality” the guidelines rolled out by the task team, which restricts the movement of trucks evacuating cargo from the port only to a certain time of the day. It said the ports operate round the clock, hence “cargo evacuation must be done round the clock”, including at night in order to avoid congestion. STOAN also said that part of the guidelines allowing port-bound trucks to access the Lagos Port Complex Apapa only via the Wharf Road, while those being used for other purposes have unrestricted use of all other access roads is “ill-advised”. “These guidelines stand logic on its head. How do you ask the port trucks not to work at certain times and not to use certain roads? The roads are for port operations,” it said in the statement. “We urge President Muhammadu Buhari to call Mr. Opeifa to order, as he has now totally deviated from his brief.” The association also asked the federal government to mandate the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to take over traffic management on the port access roads, so as to clear the chaos created by the task team. “NPA has a robust security department that had done a good job of managing the traffic on the port access roads in the past and it is the consensus of stakeholders that they should return to that role,” STOAN said. The association also called on the federal government to investigate allegations of extortion of truck drivers by the task team as well as alleged preferential treatment granted petrol tankers and some truckers, especially some union officials, who are hiding under the task team. “It has become imperative to note that other truckers and stakeholders have complained severally about this injustice,” STOAN added. COVID 19: Five Star Donates N75m To FG, N20m PPE To NPA As part of efforts to curtail the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and bring relief to both the victims and generality of Nigerians, the management of Five Star Logistics Terminal has supported the federal government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) with the sum of N75 million. Five Star Logistics also made a donation of 1,200 packs of hand sanitisers and 1,600 packs of face masks worth N20 million to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Sister companies of Five Star Logistics, Comet Shipping Agencies Limited and Tarabaroz Fisheries Limited also donated the sum of N5 million and N500,000 respectively to the federal government in support of its efforts to contain the pandemic. Presenting the items at the Tin Can Island Port Complex in Lagos on Tuesday, general manager, Comet Group, Rigo Nazarri, said the donation of the relief materials was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility. He added that the gesture is also in alignment with the initiative of the NPA and the maritime industry to support the federal government in its singular mission to rid the country of the coronavirus. He said, “We will remain resolute in our support to the federal government and people of Nigeria in ensuring that we all work hand in hand to flush COVID-19 out of Nigeria and the whole world. “Companies under the aegis of Comet Shipping Group have cumulatively contributed over N100 million in the concerted efforts to rid Nigeria of the dreaded coronavirus disease.” Receiving the items on behalf of NPA, the port manager, Tin Can Island Port Complex, Abubakar Umar, commended the management of Five Star Logistics for the donation of the relief materials, which he said would help reduce the spread of the virus among port users. “Let me appreciate you for heeding to the request made by our managing director during an assessment visit to all the terminals to assess the health and challenges faced by terminal operators in regards to COVID-19. “During that time, she drew attention to the need to also contribute to assist our workers who are day and night working in the ports being an essential service duty to keep the port operational. So, I am happy that you are here today with the items as your contribution to the fight against COVID-19. Be assured that the message will be conveyed to the management,” he said. Apapa Traffic: Truck Owners Deny Bribery Allegation Against Presidential Taskforce Truck owners operating at the Mile 2-Tin Can Port axis of the Oshodi-Apapa expressway have denied bribery allegation against the Presidential taskforce on the decongestion of the port access roads. This was even as they called on security agencies to probe the activities of those who levelled the allegations. Addressing newsmen in Apapa, the truck owners accused the petitioners of being the mastermind of alleged unbridled extortion of truckers before the creation of the Task Team on Apapa gridlock, under the leadership of Kayode Opeifa. The spokesperson of the truck owners at the Tin Can/ Mile 2 axis; Salami Ismail said the petition was against the articulated vehicles owners operating on the axis. It also against the Presidential Task Team, he added. Salami disclosed that, the petition were borne out of the task team putting an end to illegal funds by dealing directly with genuine truck owners in the task of ensuring that the two main access into Apapa are free of vehicular traffic. He accused those behind the petition, which alleged that the truck owners were collecting money, of crying because they have lost the illegal means of sustaining their ostentatious life style, prior to the coming of the Presidential team. He said further that, those behind the petition are “truck pushers”, that is middlemen, who do not have trucks, but only seek to assist genuine truck owners to gain access into the port for a fee, a practice that has ended with the intervention of the Presidential Taskforce. The truck owners’ spokesperson claimed that, the petition written by one Mr Aroyewun Adeyinka and other individuals is false and a deliberate attempt to rubbish the tremendous effort of the Presidential Taskforce. According to him, “The petition is borne out of frustration due to the dismantling of the criminal activities of middlemen called “truck pushers” by the Presidential Taskforce. The inauguration of the Presidential Taskforce has been a game changer for easy movement of trucks to and from the ports.” He alleged that, “before the inauguration of the Presidential Taskforce, these petitioners who were active in the haulage sector as “truck pushers” usually extort truck owners to the tune of N150,000 per truck before access is given to trucks to proceed to the ports. “The Truck Owners Mile-2/Tin Can Axis, after almost being sent out of business due to the exorbitant fees charged by these middlemen “truck pushers”, protested vehemently and raised valid objections to their criminal acts and conducts before the Presidential Taskforce, which reportedly investigated the allegations and corroborated the position of truck owners, hence the dismantling of the exploitative network of these “truck pushers”.