It is a general consensus that the world will not remain the same when the lockdown occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic is lifted. While the organised labour led by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC) embark on advocacy and social dialogue with government and private sector employers to promote public health and employment/income protection for workers as the virus spreads, many Nigerians are genuinely concerned about the fate of workers when this lockdown is over. There are fears that the biggest casualty when all of this lockdown is over will be workers and their families. There is apprehension of massive job cuts as businesses count losses as a result of the pandemic. Some private sector employers are considering slashing salaries of employees that will survive the cut when the lockdown is lifted. Already, some state governors owe their workers backlog of salaries and the free fall of oil prices; Nigeria’s biggest means of foreign earning, puts the economy at risk and threatens the implementation of the recently implemented new minimum wage. Organised labour indeed has a huge task ahead as it seeks to protect the interest of workers. With Nigerians losing confidence in the government to protect their interest, the workers will look up to their leadership to speak up for them How prepared is the organisd labour to confront the change that will occur in the world of work? “Well, Nigerian workers wear the workplace shoes and would feel most the pinch of Covid-19 aftershocks,” the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) posited in a letter to the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, set up by President Muhammadu Buhari. The NLC in the letter signed by its President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, quickly asserted that, “We are also interested in the recovery of jobs, restoration of income, and sustainability of livelihood especially at the end of the current lockdown.” Already, organised labour has declared interest to set up a situation room to monitor the sharing of palliative as well as engage the government on how best to gradually and systematically open up the economy for business and production. However, in Nigeria’s labour sector that is already characterised by anti labour practices such as casualisation and contract staffing, the effect of after shock of Coronavirus pandemic will be very devastating. The country’s private and informal sector, which is estimated to make up 70 percent of the workforce is notorious for having business owners with no regards for labour laws. The federal government has through the Central Bank announced a stimulus package of about N3.5 trillion naira for SMEs and other business concerns. Unfortunately, organised labour is not part of the economic team set up by President Buhari to look at the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy. It has been an all government affairs. The ITUC estimates that globally, 195 million jobs could be lost at the end of the pandemic. The NLC genuinely expressed concerns that “It is important that we engage government on these issues in order not to compound job losses, income shortfall and wage poverty.” ILO Director-General, Guy Ryder told G20 labour ministers on Thursday that more needs to be done to protect workers and support businesses, particularly in low and middle income countries. Although, chairman of the taskforce, and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Mr Boss Mustapha says the taskforce will commence talk with labour. The ILO DG says “respecting workers’ fundamental rights and effective dialogue with workers’ and employers’ organizations is the only way to create a solid, equitable, global recovery, and ensure the public support needed to carry the measures through.” The NLC says it has concluded plans to set up a Labour- Civil Society Situation Roomto to interact with social partners including the Federal Ministry of Labour,and employers’ organization. The Situation Room will interface with the inter-ministerial committee on policy interventions and recommendations on post Covid-19 economic response. It is expected that organised labour will use it’s time tested approach of dialogue to engage and advice government on the strategy going forward. This will ensure that many workers who are not benefitting from government’s economic palliatives, will not be push further into extreme poverty.