The Director General of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Prof. Abubakar O. Sulaiman, has called on Muslim faithful to remain steadfast during the Ramadan. He also urged Muslims and indeed all Nigerians to use the period to pray for God’s intervention in eliminating COVID-19. According to a statement by the information unit of NILD, the Director  General commended the proactive efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari in containing the spread of the disease and the seamless working relationship between the Executive and the Leadership of the National Assembly, ably led by Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, in finding lasting solution to the pandemic and providing succour for poor and vulnerable Nigerians. He lamented that as a result of  the pandemic, Ramadan period which is usually a time of bonding for Muslims through congregational prayers and sharing of meals would be observed in a restricted fashion. “I send my warmest wishes to all Nigerians, particularly Muslims, as we begin the holy month of Ramadan. “Even though Ramadan usually fosters a strong sense of community spirit, reflected in the way we open our arms and welcome people of all faiths to share in the Iftar meals and observe prayers, this year’s devotion will be different as our world and ways of life are currently threatened by the COVID-19 crisis. “This has brought about the need for ‘social distancing’, restriction on religious and secular gatherings and total ‘lockdown’ of some states of the federation. “I enjoin all Muslim faithfuls to remain steadfast and use this period to intensify prayer for an end to the deadly disease and the revitalization of our nation”, he stated. The former Minister of National Planning further called on Nigerians to continue to observe all safety guidelines already established by statutory agencies of government aimed at containing the pandemic. He further implored all Muslims in particular and Nigerians in general to continue to adhere to safety rules and guidelines by the government which includes restriction of movement and social distancing. Prof. Sulaiman said: “More than ever before, we must lend a helping hand to the poor and vulnerable among us. “Let us abide by the injunctions of the Holy Quran by working for a safe, hygienic and peaceful world”. 