The first case of COVID-19 in Anambra state has tested negative twice to the virus and has been certified fit to go home, Governor Willie Obiano, has declared. Obiano made the declaration on Wednesday in Awka while giving an update on the fight against the pandemic in the state. “In my last address, I informed you that the first post-treatment test of the COVID-19 index case in Anambra state had returned negative. “Today, I am delighted to tell you that the second test on our index case has also returned negative, following the NCDC protocol on COVID-19. “Therefore, I have asked the Commissioner for Health to discharge him from our Protective Care Center. “We have also made some arrangements to decontaminate his home to ensure that there is no further incident,” he said. On contact tracing, Obiano said that the samples of the remaining 36 people that had direct contact with the index case had been submitted for testing. He said that in its bid to re-strengthen strategies against the spread of COVID-19, government had made the use of face masks by residents compulsory. “From today onward, it has become compulsory to wear face masks in Anambra state. Anyone who is seen outside his home without a face mask shall be guilty of breaking the Anambra state protocol on COVID-19. “This principle shall be enforced by all traditional rulers, religious leaders, women leaders, market association leaders, youth association leaders and every community leader that has influence on our people. “We encourage our people to make their own masks to ensure availability of masks. However, polyester and polythene materials must not be used in making masks,” he said. The governor appreciated the efforts of health care workers in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 in the state. “Our irrepressible health care workers are the only army we have in this special war. “These are brilliant men and women who keep sleepless nights that we may sleep with both eyes closed. “On behalf of the good people of Anambra state, I thank you for standing strong for us all,’’ he said. The governor urged the residents to continue to maintain the globally accepted COVID-19 protocol of regular hand washing, regular use of hand sanitisers and social distancing, among other rules. “The danger is not over yet. I count on your support and commitment as we race to the finishing line,” Obiano said. (NAN) 