ANAYO ONUKWUGHA captures the power play that trailed the recent arrest and release of oil workers in Rivers State over the coronavirus lockdown. On Sunday, April 19, 2020, the Rivers State government announced the release of 22 staff of multinational oil giant, ExxonMobil, who were quarantined at the 250-bed Isolation Centre located at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. The release of the ExxonMobil staff came few days after a Port Harcourt Chief Magistrate’s Court granted bail to two pilots and 10 passengers of Caverton Helicopters, who had been remanded in state government-owned facilities for illegally flying into Rivers State, thereby contravening an Executive Order of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, aimed at curtailing the spread of Coronavirus in the state. Like the Caverton Helicopters’ pilots and their passengers, who are also oil workers, the ExxonMobil staff were intercepted at the border between Rivers State and Akwa Ibom State, while coming into the state from Eket, Akwa Ibom State, by the immediate-past commissioner of police, Mustapha Dandaura. Based on the orders of the governor, the oil workers were placed under arrest and taken to the Isolation Centre, where they were billed to be quarantined for at least 14 days. Announcing the arrest of the ExxonMobil staff during press conference at Government House, Port Harcourt, and aired live by two national television stations, Wike said that the Exxon Mobil matter would be a test case in legal jurisprudence in the country. The governor said:  “Security agencies arrested 22 staff of Exxon Mobil who came into the state from neighbouring Akwa Ibom State in violation of the extant Executive Order restricting movement into the state. We do not know the coronavirus status of these individuals. “Even though security agencies advised that they be allowed to go back to Akwa Ibom State, I insisted that the law must take its course. This is because nobody is above the law. “As a responsive government, we have quarantined them in line with the relevant health protocols and they will be charged to court.” The governor expressed regrets that federal authorities were working dangerously to compromise the health protection system of Rivers State and thereby make vulnerable to coronavirus. He said: “Some people want the escalation of the virus in Rivers State.  People were paid to canvass a negative narrative on Carveton pilots. “We are doing what we can within available resources to fight coronavirus.  You can fly, but as you fly and land, don’t enter our territory. “We will fight this matter legally.  ExxonMobil does not operate in Rivers State. That they have a point at the Onne Seaport does not mean that they operate in Rivers State. “People in Abuja are not happy. They want Rivers State to be infected. They want to kill Rivers people and I will not allow it. I was elected to protect Rivers people. Rivers State is not a pariah state. “Nigerians shake when they hear oil companies they shake because they have compromised. Imagine an appointed minister issuing an order to an elected governor. They wanted to rig us out and lost. Recall that the former DG (Director-General) of DSS ordered his men to leave the INEC collation centre for the invasion of the centre. They lost. “The right must be done. We are talking about something that is killing people.  They want Coronavirus to escalate in Rivers State. The law must be tested. Make sacrifice and let us contain the virus. “Nobody will use Rivers State as a toy. This federal government does not like us, but a government will come that likes Rivers State.” The federal government never reacted to the arrest and quarantine of the ExxonMobil workers. However, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) threatened to order its members out of all oil platforms, rigs and other facilities in the country, if the Rivers State government does not release the 22 ExxonMobil staff. PENGASSAN, in a statement jointly signed by its president and secretary, Mr Ndukaku Ohaeri and Lumumba Okugbawa, respectively wondered why oil workers would be arrested, whereas both the federal and Rivers State governments have detailed oil workers as essential workers, hence, exempted from the total lockdown directives. The union recalled that before this incident, 10 of its members on board Caverton Helicopter were last week arrested in Rivers State, on the guise of sustaining the war against the COVID-19 pandemic. It therefore, charged the federal government and other stakeholders to urgently prevail on the security agencies and Rivers State government, to stop forthwith what they described as ‘unpleasant anti-workers and economic posture which also amounts to hostage taking.’ The statement read: “The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria is highly embarrassed over the continuous harassment of our members in the Oil and Gas industry especially the most recent ones with our members in Tecon Oil Company and Exxonmobil on essential duty. “Yesterday, about 21 of our members from Exxon Mobil on essential duty coming into Port Harcourt for ‘quarantine’ before going offshore were arrested by men of the Nigeria Security Agencies, under the Rivers State Police Command on the pretext of enforcing the State Government directives on the Executive Orders assumedly proclaimed by the State on the wake of the Corona Virus pandemic. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Federal and State Governments lists detailing category of persons exempted from the total lockdown directives includes senior staff in oil and gas industry which PENGASSAN represents.” Barely 48 hours after its first statement, PENGASSAN issued another statement where it accused the federal government of failing to secure the release of its members and asked its members to shut operations and all activities at the nation’s oil rigs and export terminals from midnight of Sunday, April 19, 2020. The union also ordered its members to withdraw all forms of services relating to crude oil production, refining, distribution and supplies. The statement reads in part: “The federal government and relevant authorities have failed to secure the release of these 21 comrades on legitimate national assignment, the leadership of Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria have no other option regrettably than to direct all our members to commence the withdrawal of services as follows: “By midnight Sunday 19th April 2020, all Export facilities will stop operation as well as suspension of Production and Maintenance Services Reports. “That by 12 noon on Monday 20th April, all our members will withdraw all forms of services relating to crude oil production, refining, distribution and supplies.” While announcing the release of the ExxonMobil staff on Sunday, Rivers State attorney-general and commissioner for justice, Professor Zaccheus Adangor, said that the Exxon Mobil staff were released without charges. Adangor, who stated that the state government would no longer press charges against them, said the oil workers were released following interventions by well-meaning Nigerians. He noted that he monitored the release of the 22 Exxon Mobil at the State Isolation Centre at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium in Port Harcourt. The attorney-general further noted that the Rivers State government remained committed to implementing the Executive Order issued to check the spread of coronavirus. While reacting to the development, the immediate-past publicity secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Chris Finebone, observed that the state government was yet to say the truth on what led to the release of the ExxonMobil staff. Finebone said: “I feel happy that the innocent oil workers have regained their freedom from what I consider hostage taking. You see, the governor is not as brave or naïve as people think. He knows when to huff, puff and threaten in front of the camera to rally his base and enjoy momentary applause. “And he also knows when the real hammer is about to fall and how to cow, beg, throw in the towel and scamper to safety with style. One day he will tell the real story why he hurriedly released the 22 ExxonMobil staff. “Forget the story about eminent persons intervening. Okay, can he name those eminent persons who intervened, how they intervened, where and when?” Apparently responding to Finebone’s statement,  Wike, said that contrary to the falsehood being peddled on the release of ExxonMobil staff. The governor, who as speaking at a function in Government House, Port Harcourt, noted that it was strictly on the intervention of respected Nigerians and not due to the threat by PENGASSAN to embark on strike. He said: “No federal agency spoke to us. But there were respected Nigerians who intervened and they were released by 8:00am on Sunday. “Exxon Mobil signed and agreed that they will take back their staff to Eket (Akwa Ibom State. That was the condition we gave for their release.”