Governors have called for the decentralization of the COVID-19 response as the best chance of nipping the spread of the virus in communities. This was contained in a communique after the 6th COVID -19 teleconference of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) meeting. Chairman of the NGF and Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi briefed the forum on the rapidly evolving situation of the COVID-19 pandemic and coordination efforts with the federal government, multilateral and bilateral partners, and the private sector through the Coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID). He said “ with over 25 States now affected by the spread of the virus and increasing evidence of community transmission, State Governors called for the decentralization of the COVID-19 response as the best chance of nipping the spread of the virus in communities. “Following an update from the NGF Secretariat on the number of COVID-19 cases in the country, members expressed serious concern over the rising spread of the virus among health workers and resolved to work with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to ensure that health workers are adequately provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and are constantly trained on the use of protective gears. “In order to strengthen coordinated implementation of necessary public health recommendations across States, Governors resolved to set up COVID-19 Committees at the regional level, headed by their State Commissioners of Health. He added that regional Committees will continue to interface with the State Task Force Committees on COVID-19 already established in each State. According to him , the forum also received briefing from the Governors of Lagos, Bauchi, Oyo and Ogun State who shared their experiences and lessons from the fight against COVID-19. “Governors unanimously agreed to the implementation of an inter-State lockdown in the country over the next two weeks to mitigate the spread of the virus from State to State. Only essential services will be permitted. “Lastly, the Forum congratulated the Governor of Kaduna State, H.E. Nasir El-Rufai who after nearly four weeks of testing positive and observing very strict medical regime has now received two consecutive negative test results for the coronavirus,” he added .