The apex northern sociocultural group. Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has described the late Chief of Staff as a formidable and unshakeable force behind the Muhammadu Buhari’s presidency. The forum in a condolence statement issued by the National Publicity Secretary Emmanuel Yawe said the “forum received the news of the death of the Chief of Staff to President Muhammedu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari with shock and disbelief”. He said, the forum had all along since he took ill hoped and prayed that he would survive the coronavirus which he contracted some weeks ago while on an official journey abroad. “Much earlier, we followed Abba Kyari’s career as a brilliant student at Universities of Warwick and Cambridge all in the United Kingdom and the Nigerian Law School where he studied Sociology and Law. Also of great interest to us was his participation at such management programs like the ones at International Institute of Management Development in Laussane, Switzerland and another one at Harvard Business School, USA. “We also took note of the fact that in his working life, whether as a legal practitioner at Fani-Kayode and Sowemimo, or as Editor at New Africa Holdings in Kaduna, as a Commissioner in Borno State, Secretary Board of African International Bank, as Chief Executive Officer of UBA, as a Director of Unilever, he left a trail of exemplary records of achievements”. ACF noted that the late elder statesman’s highest record of achievement for his country however has been his service as the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari. Adding that “since his appointment in 2015, nobody has been in doubt about his loyalty to his Principal and his government. Operating quietly but efficiently, he was for five years a formidable and unshakable force behind the presidency of Buhari.
“We at the ACF condole with the President for the death of such a dependable lieutenant/confidant and strong supporter”. ACF Prayed Allah to give President Buhari the fortitude to bear this loss and guide him as he begins the difficult task of searching for a replacement to such a sensitive office.
ENDS