Nigeria’s economy will this year experience the worst recession in 30 years, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has said. The global financial institution said that because of the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, Nigeria’s economy will drop from its 2.2 per cent growth in 2019 to -3.4 per cent this year. It, however, projected that the nation’s economy would pick up to 2.4 per cent in 2021, adding that there would be significant economic contractions in oil-exporting countries due to the raging pandemic. By the prediction, it would be the worst recession for Nigeria in 30 years after a negative economic growth of 1.51 per cent in 2016. In 1987, the Nigerian economy receded by -10.87 and -0.6 in 1991. The IMF projection was contained in the April 2020 World Economic Outlook report released on Tuesday in Washington. IMF chief economist and director of the research department, Gita Gopinath said that the recession to be experienced would be the worst since the Great Depression between 1929 and 1932 when the advanced economies shrunk by 16 per cent. “For the first time since the Great Depression, both the advanced economies and emerging and developing economies are in a recession,” the IMF said, yesterday. “For 2020, growth in advanced economies is projected at -6 per cent. Emerging markets and developing economies which typically have normal growth levels well above advanced economies are also projected to have negative growth of -1 per cent and -2.2 per cent if you exclude China,” IMF managing director‎, Kristalina Georgieva, said. It also disclosed that South Africa’s GDP will contract 5.8 per cent in 2020 from a growth rate of 0.2 per cent in 2019. The Fund also projected that sub-Saharan Africa’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) will contract by 1.6 per cent in 2020, compared to 3.1 per cent growth recorded in 2019. The global economy is estimated to drop to a record -3.0 per cent.  The global economy is projected to grow by 5.8 per cent in 2021 as economic activity normalises, helped by policy support. The IMF said in its World Economic Outlook that GDP would fall sharply in Nigeria and South Africa, the two largest economies on the continent. Various African governments have imposed lockdowns and curfews to curb the spread of the coronavirus, however, the restrictions are putting pressure on most economies, some of which were already in recession. “Because the economic fallout is acute in specific sectors, policymakers will need to implement substantial targeted fiscal, monetary, and financial market measures to support affected households and businesses domestically,” IMF said in the outlook. There is extreme uncertainty around the global growth forecast. IMF said the economic fallout depends on factors that interact in ways that are hard to predict, including the pathway of the pandemic, the intensity and efficacy of containment efforts, the extent of supply disruptions, the repercussions of the dramatic tightening in global financial market conditions, shifts in spending patterns, behavioral changes (such as people avoiding shopping malls and public transportation), confidence effects, and volatile commodity prices. The IMF noted that strong multilateral cooperation is essential to overcome the effects of the pandemic, including helping financially constrained countries facing twin health and funding shocks, and for channeling aid to countries with weak health care systems. Meanwhile, in its global financial report that was also released yesterday, IMF said COVID-19 crisis poses threat to financial stability. To preserve the stability of the global financial system and support the global economy, the report said central banks across the globe have been the first line of defense. First, they have significantly eased monetary policy by cutting policy rates—in the case of advanced economies to historic lows. The financial stability report said the global spread of COVID-19 may require the imposition of tougher and longer-lasting containment measures – actions that may lead to a further tightening of global financial conditions should they result in a more severe and prolonged downturn. Such a tightening may, in turn, expose financial vulnerabilities that have built in recent years in the environment of extremely low interest rates. This would further exacerbate the COVID-19 shock. For example, asset managers facing large outflows may be forced to sell into falling markets – thus intensifying downward price moves. In addition, levered investors may face further margin calls and may be forced to unwind their portfolios; such financial deleveraging may aggravate selling pressures. Why Nigeria Missed IMF Debt Relief – Experts Against the backdrop of Nigeria being exempted from the list of 25 countries to benefit from the IMF debt relief, economic experts have offered divergent views on why the country was not included on the list. Georgieva had on Monday announced an immediate debt relief for 25 countries, most of which are in sub-Sahara. Africa. The beneficiaries are those considered poorest and most vulnerable member- countries under the IMF’s revamped Catastrophe Containment and Relief Trust (CCRT) as part of the its response to help address the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. In an interview with LEADERSHIP yesterday, professor of finance and capital market, Uche Uwaleke, said that as the country with the biggest economy in Africa, Nigeria is certainly not qualified to be grouped with those the IMF called poorest and most vulnerable. South Africa which is in the same category with Nigeria is not also on the list. The special fund is meant to provide debt relief to member countries chiefly to cover their debt obligations to the IMF. Nigeria’s current public debt does not include obligations to the IMF. Based on that, the former Imo State commissioner for finance said that “there is no basis for including Nigeria among the countries to benefit from this gesture by the IMF.” Nigeria broke free from the IMF since 2005 when the country negotiated a debt buy back arrangement which extinguished all obligations to them. Since then, the multilateral borrowings have been from the World Bank Group and the African Development Bank (AfDB). On his part, Mr. Seye Adetumbi said that Nigeria’s exemption from the list means the situation of the country is ranked better or higher than those 25 countries. In his perspective, economic analyst, Okey Inuegbu said that whether Nigeria had debt obligation to IMF or not, no multilateral institution, including World Bank and AfDB would grant debt relief to Nigeria because of the nation’s “very poor economic planning.” “IMF, World Bank and AfDB watch our behaviour. I will be surprised if the IMF grants Nigeria debt relief. Most of the indices for Nigeria are negative, which means they need help. But in doing this, you have to ask, what did we use the borrowed funds for? You used the funds for things that do not help the populace. And most of the borrowed funds were used for personal luxuries,” Inuegbu said. He noted that such debt pardon is based on independent analysis of a nation’s economic history with regards to the deployment of the loan facilities to ascertain whether Nigeria needs debt relief or not. The countries that will receive the debt service relief are Afghanistan, Benin, Burkina Faso, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, D.R., The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Rwanda, São Tomé and Príncipe, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Tajikistan, Togo, and Yemen.  NLC Wants Nigeria In IMF’s Debt Relief Package In its reaction, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has registered its displeasure over the exclusion of Nigeria from the IMF package The congress, in a statement signed by its president, Ayuba Wabba, said that Nigeria should be included on the list of benefiting countries for the COVID-19 relief and debt moratorium based on very cogent reasons. Wabba explained that Nigeria is facing economic crisis given the recent plunge in prices of crude oil, Nigeria’s major foreign earner, saying this had led to a downsizing of the capital expenditure in the country’s 2020 budget. He said that in December, Nigeria external debt hit a 16-year high of $27 billion with a debt servicing commitment of $1.5 billiom, adding that the fact that the nation’s debt servicing is about five per cent of the country’s 2020 federal budget and 75 per cent external reserves signpost that the country’s debt servicing pledges are impracticable and should be renegotiated. Wabba also argued that with Nigeria being the most populous country in Africa  could be the epicentre of future wave of COVID-19 if robust and adequate support is not extended to Nigeria to fight and contain the pandemic.