The federal government has raised the alarm over the speed at which confirmed cases of coronavirus is increasing in Nigeria by the day, warning that the virus was real and spreading like wildfire across the country. The secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who stated government’s position yesterday during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 in Abuja, said the astronomical rise in confirmed cases is an indication that community spread is taking place in the country. The SGF who is chairman of the PTF also attributed the increase of confirmed cases to the expansion of testing capacity and activities. “This pandemic is real and is spreading like wildfire. We must all arise to fight this potent and invisible common enemy by adhering to the guidelines and protocols for COVID-19, which includes personal hygiene, social distancing, wear of masks in public places, obeying the stay-at-home order and reporting unusual illness to the authorities for investigation”, Mustapha cautioned. The SGF expressed worry over the rising cases of the virus in Kano, noting that the situation the state has continued to be of concern, even as he assured however that the PTF was working in close contact with the state government to arrest the situation. On how testing capacity and community spread is aiding the rapid spread of the virus in the country, Mustapha further said, “As we are gradually moving towards the end of week four of the lockdown for Lagos, Ogun as well as FCT, the PTF has intensified its all-round assessment of the impact on the stated objectives, the state of readiness and next steps to take.  As we speak, the DG, NCDC and WHO representative are expected back in Abuja later today with their reports. “The PTF notes that the number of cases has risen generally. This is attributable to expansion of our testing capacity and activities as well as evidence that community spread is taking place. “Considering the dynamic nature of the response plan, the strategy for testing has been modified and door-to-door testing is now taking place in some communities in Lagos and Abuja. Testing, detection, isolation, care and case management remain central to our success in this fight”. On the upcoming Ramadan, he thanked the Sultan of Sokoto and president-general of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs for issuing a statement on the conduct of the Ummah during the Ramadan. The SGF said, “It is anticipated that by Friday 24th, the Ramadan shall commence. I want to use this medium to thank His Eminence, the Sultan of Sokoto and president-general of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs for endorsing the recommendations of the Emergency Fatwah Committee by issuing a statement guiding the conduct of the Ummah during the Ramadan. “The statement has directed the Ummah on the suspension of obligatory religious activities such as Jumaat, congregational and other sessions during the month of Ramadan to prevent the spread of COVID 19. “It similarly encouraged scholars and organisations to use all other means of communication and broadcast to disseminate information and conduct programmes. Our Prayer is that the Almighty shall accept our collective supplication and show mercy”. Commending the application of these directives in the states, he implored all state sovernors to consider the directives before taking further decisions. Mustapha further hinted that in a rare show of magnanimity and concern for all categories of employees, President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the immediate payment of the withheld February and March 2020 salaries of lecturers not registered on the IPPIS platform. He said the payment was to cushion the deleterious effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the lecturers and members of their families. He, however, said all vice chancellors are to revalidate the BVN of affected lecturers before the accountant general of the federation can carry out the payments. “The PTF remains committed to leading the fight against COVID-19 and crave your support, understanding and cooperation,” he added. Govs Agree On 14-day Lockdown In States Meanwhile, governors of the 36 states of the federation yesterday “unanimously” agreed on the implementation of an inter-state lockdown in the country over the next two weeks to mitigate the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic from state to state. The governors, under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), took the decision after being briefed by their counterparts in Lagos, Bauchi, Oyo and Ogun States. They also called for the decentralisation of the fight against the virus to nip the spread of the virus to communities in the bud. The appeal was contained in a communiqué they issued after the 6th COVID-19 teleconference of the NGF yesterday. Accordingly, they resolved to set committees in the six regions of the country NGF chairman and Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, briefed the forum on the rapidly evolving situation of the COVID-19 pandemic and coordination efforts with the federal government, multilateral and bilateral partners, and the private sector through the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID). He said, “With over 25 states now affected by the spread of the virus and increasing evidence of community transmission, state governors called for the decentralisation of the COVID-19 response as the best chance of nipping the spread of the virus in communities. “Following an update from the NGF Secretariat on the number of COVID-19 cases in the country, members expressed serious concern over the rising spread of the virus among health workers and resolved to work with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to ensure that health workers are adequately provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and are constantly trained on the use of protective gears. “In order to strengthen coordinated implementation of necessary public health recommendations across states, governors resolved to set up COVID-19 Committees at the regional level, headed by their state commissioners for health”. He added that regional committees will continue to interface with the State Task Force Committees on COVID-19 already established in each state. According to him, the forum also received briefing from the governors of Lagos, Bauchi, Oyo and Ogun State who shared their experiences and lessons from the fight against COVID-19. He continued: “Governors unanimously agreed to the implementation of an inter-State lockdown in the country over the next two weeks to mitigate the spread of the virus from State to State. Only essential services will be permitted. “Lastly, the Forum congratulated the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir el-Rufai, who after nearly four weeks of testing positive and observing very strict medical regime has now received two consecutive negative test results for the coronavirus”.  Medicine Vendors, Pharmacists Risk Cancellation Of Licenses – FG The federal government also warned Patent and Proprietary Medicine Vendors (PPMVs) and Pharmacists in the country to desist from treating persons diagnosed or suspected to be COVID-19 patients or have their operating licenses cancelled. The minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who stated this yesterday at the daily briefing on COVID 19 in Abuja, also said except there was a medical indication to the contrary, all persons diagnosed with COVID-19 will now be treated in the state where the diagnosis was made, rather than being referred to their states of origin. This, the minister said, was to avoid the high risk of exposure of other persons in the course of transfer. He called on private hospitals desiring to manage COVID-19 patients to apply to their state ministries of Health for permit, meet IPC standards and be accredited by a FMoH certified state team after compliance with protocols before being granted. The minister also disclosed that 27 rapid response teams (RRTs) have been deployed to states by NCDC to support the COVID-19 response, most recently to Abia, Gombe and Sokoto States. On the Chinese medical team, Ehanire said, „It was brought to my notice that they have stayed for 14days. So they will be tested for COVID-19 tomorrow.“ On his part, the coordinator of the PTF, Dr Dani Aliyu, said that the PTF did not release any official statement regarding lockdown. He also said that there was no evidence of sexual transmission of COVID-19, noting however that it could be ascertained since the disease is new.  Edo DCP Dies Of Virus Meanwhile, the ravaging coronavirus has claimed the life of a deputy commissioner of Police attached to the Zone 5 headquarters of the Nigeria Police Force in Benin City. Informed sources confirmed that the police officer, a Lawyer from Cross River State  suddenly fell ill on the 14th of April and was being managed by qualified Medical Doctors until he died of the virus yesterday (Tuesday). It was gathered that but for the shutdown‎ of the country forced by the pandemic, the deceased police officer was one of those whose promotions to the rank of commissioner were being considered by the Police Service Commission. It was further learnt that Edo State commissioner of Police is the only authority to make a formal announcement of the DCP‘s death. Following the death of the police officer, the Zone 5 Headquarters was yesterday thrown into mourning. „We are in a mourning mood right now“, a police source said yesterday, describing the late deputy commissioner of police as „a man vast in knowledge, who has gone through the mill in the Police Force.  el-Rufai Recovers, Tests Negative Kaduna State governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, yesterday tested negative of COVID-19 twice, indicating that he was now free of the virus after four weeks of isolation and treatment. The governor who made a live speech on his official Facebook page, commended the medical personnel of the state ministry of Health and the Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital who managed his case. el-Rufai who also thanked his family for their massive support urged the people of the state to do everything to avoid exposure and prevent the spread of the disease in towns and villages. „We must now make the sacrifices of enhanced domestic hygiene, regular hand-washing with soap, staying at home and avoiding crowds to defeat this disease“, he stated. The governor said already, he has issued another amendment to the quarantine regulations requiring everyone in the state to wear facemask when going out of the home or workplace for any reason. “The State Government is going to make these masks available free to the poor and vulnerable groups, and encourage everyone that can afford it to get their neighborhood tailor to sew cloth masks for their use“, el-Rufai noted. He appealed to the people of Kaduna to stay at home, observe social distancing and avoid gatherings of more than 10 people and wash their hands with soap and water regularly. The governor‘s address reads in part: „In the evening of Saturday, 28 March 2020, I was notified that I had tested positive for Covid-19. I immediately made a public disclosure of this sad news and proceeded into isolation under the strict supervision of our healthcare professionals. “I am delighted to report today, that after nearly four weeks of observing a strict medical regime, I have now received the all-clear after two consecutive negative test results. “I thank Almighty Allah for His grace and mercy. I also acknowledge with gratitude the massive outpouring of sympathy, prayers and public support that followed the disclosure of the infection. My family not only went through the trauma of potentially losing a member, but also the risk of being infected as well. The entire family has been supportive as usual, while my many friends and colleagues from all over the world have sent their prayers and best wishes. “I wish to thank the diligent medical personnel of our Ministry of Health and the Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital who managed my case for their dedicated and professional care. “It was cheering to see the determined efforts of our COVID-19 Task Force chaired by the Deputy Governor, the officials of our Ministry of Health ably led by the commissioner and our security/enforcement agencies, to manage and contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state“ “I am relieved by my recovery. With the privilege of life, sound health, and the support and prayers of our citizens, I will continue to lead the Kaduna State Government’s efforts to ensure that as few of our people as possible get infected by Covid-19, and that those who do can receive adequate and timely care and treatment. Our emphasis is rightly on prevention because it is the prudent thing to do to save lives, given the limited capacity of our health system. “I am delighted by the recovery of four other COVID-19 cases who were discharged last week which was followed yesterday with the discharge of a fifth patient. On Monday, we received the sad news of three more positive cases in Kaduna State. They will receive the best care that our dedicated health professionals can muster and we wish them speedy recovery from Covid-19.“ „We must all work hard to ensure that we keep Covid-19 out of Kaduna State. We have lower infection rates than expected due to stringent measures we imposed in our state, but we cannot let our guards down. We are in dangerous times. This disease is a threat to our humanity, our lives and livelihoods. As someone that has experienced it, I will not wish it on my worst enemy. “Let me conclude by informing the citizens of Kaduna State that I have issued another amendment to the Quarantine Regulations requiring everyone in the state to wear a face mask when going out of the home or workplace for any reason. The state government is going to make these masks available free to the poor and vulnerable groups, and encourage everyone that can afford it to get their neighborhood tailor to sew cloth masks for their use. This will help protect them, their loved ones and everyone else from the spread of this disease”.  Sen Barau Begs FG As NCDC Suspends Testing In Kano Meanwhile, Senator Barau Jibrin has appealed to federal government to assist Kano State government to curb the menace of the COVID-19 pandemic sweeping through the state. This is just as the newly established testing centre for COVID-19 in Kano State has suspended its operation In a statement he issued in Abuja, yesterday, Senator Barau, who represents Kano North in the National Assembly, said with the spike of the virus in Kano State, there was need for the federal government to assist the state government with funds, equipment and additional testing facilities to meet the challenges of the most populous state in the country in combating the threat. While welcoming the announced monitoring of the state by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, he said federal government’s assistance would not only be of help to Kano but also to the states of Northern Nigeria and invariably the country because of the strategic role the state plays in the life of the nation. Barau, who is the chairman of Senate committee on Appropriation, cited federal government’s involvement and assistance to Lagos State by throwing its weight and resources behind the state because of its strategic location and importance to the country. He said with the alarming rate of the spread of Covid-19 in Kano, there was need to help the state. He urged the federal government not to wait till the virus spreads beyond the capacity of the state before intervening. He advised that as it did in Lagos from the beginning, the federal should extend the same measure of assistance to Kano State. Meanwhile, the newly established testing centre for COVID-19 in Kano State has suspended its operation. The director of the Centre for Infectious Diseases Research, Amimu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH), Isah Abubakar, who confirmed this to Channels Television on yesterday said the centre had run out of test kits. Abubakar added that the centre would remain closed until new test kits are supplied from Abuja, the nation’s capital. He added that samples taken in Kano will be sent to Abuja for testing, pending the resumption of operation at the Kano testing centre. During the temporary closure, the laboratory will be fumigated as part of routine bio-safety measures to endure the safety of staff and the environment.  Gombe Gov Imposes Curfew, Bauch Govt Reviews Budget Following confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the state, Gombe State governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, has imposed dusk-to-dawn curfew on the state beginning from today. The governor, who said the action was in consonance with the Executive Order vested on him by the Constitution, noted that the curfew is to last between 6pm and 7am. He made the announcement yesterday in a statewide broadcast to the people of the state. He equally announced the suspension of all religious activities in the state. All markets, motor parks in the state, according to the governor, are to remain closed, while interstate movement is also affected. He however exempted those on essential services, especially on health matters, even as he said steps are being taken to return all Almajiris in Gombe State to their respective states. Yahaya stated: „A dusk-to-dawn curfew across the entire state from 6pm to 7am with effect from 6pm of Thursday 23rd April, 2020 will be imposed, except for essential services that are vital for the good governance of the state. „All markets and business activities involving the interaction of more than two persons are hereby suspended. Essential food and medical supplies are however exempted from this order. “All congregational activities for social, cultural and religious purposes regardless of the number of persons participating in such events are equally suspended. “All Intra-state transportation from one LGA to another is suspended. Consequently, all motor parks across the State are closed. “All Tsangaya schools across the State are hereby closed. Necessary steps shall be taken to ensure the safe return of all Almajiris from other states back to their respective states of origin. “Accordingly, security agencies are hereby directed to ensure compliance with the executive order“. In another development, the Bauchi State government has said it will review its 2020 budget in order to meet up with the current economic realities caused by dwindling oil prices and shortfalls in revenue. Dr Aminu Gamawa, the state commissioner for budget and economic planning who briefed journalists at the end of the state executive council meeting said the review of the budget was necessary in view of the dwindling oil prices caused by coronavirus. The commissioner who said the coronavirus pandemic has affected oil prices at the international level opined that Bauchi State “has to review its budget and do what is realistic. “Oil prices have continue to fall, we if did not review our budget, then we will be deceiving the people, because the current economic realities are not favorable for us to move on with our initial plans”, he added. Nigeria Can Develop COVID-19 Vaccine – ASUU Meanwhile, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) yesterday said the vaccine for the treatment of COVID-19 disease could be developed in Nigeria provided the country‘s leaders would show the political will to sufficiently empower the nation‘s biomedical and behavioural scientists among other scholars to undertake cutting edge research about the deadly virus. ASUU‘s national president, Dr Biodun Ogunyemi stated this yesterday in Abeokuta, Ogun State, when he led members of the association to donate 1,000 pieces of 125ml bottled hand sanitizers to the state government. The ASUU team was received by the state deputy governor, Engineer Noimot Salako-Oyedele, at the governor‘s office in Oke Mosan, Abeokuta. ASUU emphasised that Nigeria stands to learn from the pandemic ravaging many countries, stressing that public education and public health were inseparable. Ogunyemi said, „For instance, conscious and determined investment in university education at national and sub-national levels would give our country quality medical scientists, behavioural scientists, creative scholars and other creams of informed citizens who can respond intelligently to challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic. “To achieve better results, we believe Nigerian governments at the federal and state levels need to work with public intellectuals and patriotic trade unions like ASUU. “We also believe such collaborative efforts should be channelled towards addressing issues of funding, conditions of service, academic freedom and university autonomy and other matters which are germane to repositioning Nigerian universities for global competitiveness“. He explained that ASUU‘s involvement in the war against COVID-19 pandemic was consequent upon the directive issued to all its 70 branches and 13 zones to play active role in the fight against the spread of the dreaded coronavirus (COVID-19) in Nigeria. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) have commended the Ogun State government‘s efforts at flattening the curve of coronavirus spread. Both organisations said they were impressed with the quality of facilities on ground, the human capital and the willingness of the Dapo Abiodun-led government to go the extra mile at ensuring that the state does not become a safe haven for the COVID-19 pandemic. The director-general, NCDC, Dr Chike Ihekweazu, after inspecting the first state fully funded molecular laboratory at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu and the 128-bed COVID-19 Isolation and treatment centre at Ikenne lauded the leadership of the state in giving directions to other states on how to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. In her remarks, the Country Director, World Health Organisation, Dr. Fiona Braka applauded the state government for having the capacity that could take in more patients, adding that the WHO is impressed with the state government.  Extending Lockdown Again Will Be Catastrophic, Ayade Warns But Cross River State governor, Professor Ben Ayade, had earlier warned that any further extension of lockdown of the country in response to the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic will spell doom for the country. He said any further extension of the lockdown will give rise as to uncontrollable youth restiveness, adding that it was better to lockout than lockdown. The governor spoke yesterday at the Industrial Park, Calabar. Ayade said the recruitment of 8000 youths was targeted at avoiding social tension in view of the harsh economic impact created by COVID 19. He noted: „With prices of oil falling, locking out is far better than locking down because another two weeks of lockdown will find this country under siege by young people. There is no way you can hold down these young energies for too long. “It is demographic, it is statistics. Sixty Five percent of the population is below the age of 35 and the virus itself does not have penetrative force in such demography and that is what we have to recognize as a country“. The governor explained that the difference in climate conditions between the west and Africa was the reason the pandemic is ravaging that part of the world. “He continued: Our demography is different from the west. Our climatic conditions are different. If you take the wind speed, the wind direction, sun intensity, radiation and the factors that govern the movement of a virus, ours is a situation that makes it difficult to spread with the speed it is spreading in the western world,” he said.  