The suspected abductors of the Ekiti Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Folorunsho Olabode, has demanded N30 million ransom from his family to secure his freedom. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the suspected abductors attacked the commissioner and two others in his vehicle along Isan Ekiti-Iludun Ekiti road on Sunday night. The driver of the car, who was the leader of the legislative arm of Ilejemeje local Government in Ekiti, Omotoso Olatunji, was killed during the attack. The victims were said to be traveling to Iye Ekiti, their country home, when the suspected gunmen attacked them. NAN reports that the suspected abductors contacted the family on phone for the ransom to secure his freedom. A family source, who pleaded anonymity, told journalists in Ado Ekiti that the kidnappers called the family to ask for the ransom. The source called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to come to the commissioner’s rescue,  saying that: “the entire Iye Ekiti, his hometown and family are troubled now because we feel his life is in danger.” “We are worried and we have started negotiation with the abductors. We pray they release him in good, sound and safe condition. “We don’t want to lose such an illustrious son and we are begging the state Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and all the security apparatus of government to do all within their powers to rescue him alive.” The Ekiti Police Command, however, said it was not aware of the ransom. The Command Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP.  Sunday Abutu, said the command was not aware of any negotiations on the demand by the abductors. He assured that security measures would be put in place to secure the release of the commissioner and one other in captivity. “We are not aware that the bandits were requesting for any ransom, we have not been told. “The police have begun serious security checks in that axis and that might be responsible for why the people said the road had been closed. “We only took strict security measures”, he said. Abutu said the police, in collaboration with other security agencies, were already combing the forests suspected to be the hideouts being used for hostage taking by bandits. He also said there was also no truth in the rumour making the rounds that Iludun-Isan highway, where the victims were attacked, had been closed for security concerns. The PPRO assured the people of the state that the abductors would be brought to book. (NAN) 