No fewer than 20 people were injured and two arrested when two rival groups clashed and unleashed mayhem at the weekend on residents of Ibadan, Oyo State.  LEADERSHIP gathered that the people were injured when the notorious Ebila group and Moshood Ekugbemi groups clashed at Idi Arere area in Ibadan.  It was further gathered that the two groups engaged themselves in a fierce battle as they both laid claims to the privilege and responsibility of collecting money from a man identified as Babatunde who was roofing his new house around Olunde area in Ibadan.  As pandemonium broke out shop owners and residents of the area were scampering for safety during the clash that lasted for about one hour.  Sources said that the injured persons were rushed to nearby hospitals while one of the gang leader Moshood Ekugbemi who was said to have been killed and resuscitated few hours later.  The Police Public Relations Officer of the state Police Command, Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Superintendent of Police who confirmed the clash said two people have been arrested in connection with the clash.  He said that men of the command had been deployed to the scene to avert total breakdown of law and order.  “Disturbance of public peace/suspected murder. Today, Saturday 11/4/2020 at about 1600HRS, a report was received by the DPO Sanyo that one Mosudi Ekugbemi of Olunde area was allegedly fatally injured with machete cuts by a group of area boys/social miscreants led by one Ebila Biola during an open fight when Biola Ebila group wa purportedly trying to collect land royalty, “Owo Omonile” from one Babatunde who was roofing his building under construction.  “But some social miscreants at Mapo Born Photo and Agbadagudu in Bere area attempted to take advantage of the circulation of the alleged death of Mosudi Ekugbemi.  “The police with support from other agencies quickly deployed security operatives in these areas in order to douse the tension while Babatunde Oladapo and Ibrahim Abisoye were arrested and are assisting the police in their investigations” he said. 