…As Obaseki Extend Curfew For 14 Days As the coronavirus pandemic figure in Edo state continue to rise, Governor Godwin Obaseki on Thursday disclosed in his verified official Twitter handle that a nurse identified as Mrs Amaka Okoro had escaped after she tested positive to Covid-19. He said Okoro who is a nursing mother and lived at No 2 Atoe Idubor street, off 2nd Ugbor, Benin City, urged the public to with any useful information to contact relevant health and security agencies noting that she pose a risk to herself, baby and the public. Obaseki twitted: “One Mrs. Amaka Okoro, who tested positive for #COVIDー19 , is wanted for treatment. She is a nursing mother, who has a baby that is already coughing. She lives at No 2 Atoe Idubor Str, off 2nd Ugbor, Benin City. “She has been unreachable since her results returned positive. Anyone with useful information on her whereabout should please the relevant health and security agencies”. Meanwhile, Obaseki extended the dusk-to dawn curfew  from 8pm to 6am for the next 14 days Obaseki had on April 19, announced a 10-day dusk to dawn curfew to contain the spread of COVID-19. Obaseki made this known during a media briefing in Benin to update the state on the progress made so far to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state. Obaseki said “since my last public update about 10 days ago, I am here to inform  you that we have made tremendous progress in the area of, screening, testing and improved awareness of our citizens about the virus. “Working closely with public and private hospitals,  we have screened about 20,000 people and tested 297 citizens “This increased  screening  and testing is the reason for the increased number of cases in the state. “We are aggressively pushing to screen our minimum target of about 500,000 people and test about one percent of them which is about 5,000 in the next few weeks. “As we increase testing, we are likely to see an astronomic rise in the number of cases in the state. “Of  20,000 people we have screened and  the 297 sample taken,  we have recorded 37 confirmed cases as at today, discharged eight and lost three people . “It is worthy of note that late testing was  a strong factor  leading to fatality. That is why  am advising that everybody go out for screening at the numerous screening centres in the state,” he said. Obaseki noted that the various screening centres offers free medical services, free face mask  and free multivitamins. “Am confident that we can beat this virus if we follow the measures put in place strictly. “I want to appreciate the good people of the state for their cooperation and compliance with the curfew which l imposed 10 day ago. “I know that the curfew have created inconvenience  and lost of income to many families, however,  this is the sacrifice we have to pay to protect the citizens and their families. “We have decided to commence another round of palliative distribution to the vulnerable groups in our communities. “With the lessons we have learnt in the past, we have put measures in place to make sure that only the targeted people receives these items,” he added. The governor who also appreciated the health workers, disclosed that government has approved the payment of hazard allowances ranging from N90,000 to 300,000 depending on their cadre. According to the governor, only the health workers who are participating in the fight against COVID-19 would benefit from the hazard allowance. Obaseki, however, thanked the Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state for volunteering to serve in the state COVID-19 response committee. He called on politicians to suspend politics  and focus on how to contain the spread of the disease in the state. 