Cases of persons who have tested positive for coronavirus but have refused to report at the accredited isolation centres for treatment have emerged, suggesting an increasing proportion of community transmission of the virus in the country. The federal government yesterday expressed worry that there are confirmed cases who, after testing positive for COVID-19, are not in any of the designated treatment centres. Health minister, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who described the situation as a significant threat to public health and national security, noted that it was government biggest headache at the moment. According to the minister, the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) cannot account for such persons and ascertain the containment of their infection. “The recommended global best practice is to admit all persons who test positive for COVID-19 into designated accredited treatment facilities to contain the spread of the virus and ensure prompt management of cases to avoid complications,” he explained. He also expressed concern over persons with mild or no symptoms who have tested positive, stating that these persons currently constitute the majority of COVID-19 cases in the country. “They are not unwell but are infectious, and must be referred to isolation and treatment centres with accredited infection prevention and control (IPC) protocols. Failure to isolate all persons results in wasted efforts. Even if only one person who has COVID-19 is not isolated, the infection persists in the community and transmission continues,” he warned. Ehanire encouraged states to ensure that all persons who test positive for the virus are admitted at the designated centres, noting however that testing cannot be made compulsory. “We have a better and more appropriate strategy”, he assured, stating that, while the high number of new cases is a manifestation of more efficient testing, it is also of ongoing community transmission. The minister noted that the structure of the nation’s response was to test people based on set criteria such as travel history, contacts or symptoms or clusters for the best prospects of high yield, and then place those with positive test in treatment and isolation, trace all their contacts and quarantine them for 14 days. He continued: “Efforts are ongoing to further increase our testing capacity and accredit more laboratories. However, a robust sample transportation infrastructure is in place to promptly convey samples to any of the 13 labs activated so far. “This mitigates the need for urgent establishment of a PCR laboratory, as well as the valuable time and personnel needed to prioritise case findings”.  FG Orders Private Hospitals To Apply For Accreditation Meanwhile, the federal government has ordered private medical facilities to seek accreditation before treating COVID-19-related cases. The secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who disclosed this yesterday during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 in Abuja expressed concern over the non-compliance by the private hospitals to COVID-19 protocols. The SGF who is also the chairman of the PTF aske operators of private medical facilities wishing to continue to treat COVID-19 cases to apply to the Federal Ministry of Health urgently, for accreditation. He said, “The PTF views with some measure of concern the non-compliance by private medical facilities with the directive to seek accreditation before treating COVID-19 related cases. “The highly infectious nature of COVID-19, if not well managed in purpose-built facilities and specialists, poses a lot of danger not just to the medical staff in such hospitals but also to other patients and loved ones at home. “We therefore appeal strongly to operators of private medical facilities wishing to continue to treat COVID-19 cases to apply to the Federal Ministry of Health urgently, for accreditation”. Mustapha also explained that the situation in Kano was still being assessed and monitored closely. Based on preliminary findings, the SGF said the PTF has directed the NCDC to send an enhanced support team, mobilize resources for contact tracing and immediately ensure that necessary steps are taken in conjunction with state government to contain the spread of the pandemic in Kano and stop the city from becoming the next epicentre. He further noted that the issue of stigmatisation still persists and is counter-productive to government’s efforts, adding that the disease does not discriminate on status, creed, tribe or colour as anybody could be infected. “It is my humble appeal that once you are infected by this disease, you should immediately report to appropriate medical facilities in your own interest and the interest of your loved ones. COVID-19 is not a condition and there is no need to stigmatize anybody”, he stated. Reminding Nigerians that over 90 per cent of infected persons recover from the disease, the SGF urged all those who have recovered from the disease to tell their stories. “The PTF has continued to collaborate with governors in the various states and the outcome of the conversation with the NGF will form a critical part of the recommendations to be made to Mr President in the coming days,” he added.  40 Nigerian Health Workers Test Positive For Virus About 40 health workers have tested positive for coronavirus. Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who disclosed this at the daily briefing on COVID-19 yesterday in Abuja urged frontline health workers in the COVID-19 fight to apply precautionary measures while treating patients. He also stressed the need for frontline health workers to undertake refresher training on IPC.  CACOVID To Train Experts In Curbing Community Transmission With plans afoot to handover isolation centers to some states, the private sector-led Coalition Against Covid-19 (CACOVID) said it will commence capacity development for healthcare personnel in the areas of Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) to reduce community transmission. CACOVID said in Lagos that it would engage the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and other resource partners like CHAI, DRASA and others to define scope of work and training curriculum. Speaking on behalf of leaders of the coalition, chief executive officer of Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF), Ms Zouera Youssoufou, disclosed that CACOVID would start implementing training for the healthcare personnel first across four states namely Kano, Rivers, Enugu and Borno, and then extend to other states of the federation. She stated that the coalition would tap into the expertise of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) to organise a systematic training programme for all primary health workers to help reduce the rate of community transmission of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the country. Youssoufou explained that the private sector group is to handover some isolation centres it has concluded building to the state governments and commence distribution of food stuffs to the vulnerable during the period of lockdown in Nigeria. According to her, in order to curb community transmission and educate the medical personnel on proper handling of COVID-19 cases, CACOVID would partner relevant agencies for capacity building, adding that in that regard the primary healthcare sector remained one of the top priorities of the coalition. She said, “Training of health workers is one of the most important things we need to do to help curb the spread of the virus within the community health care system. Giving them the tools, knowledge and understanding is critical to the fight against this pandemic. “The training became necessary because the health workers need to know what to do when they encounter anyone with coronavirus. Right now, we are working with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency to organise a systematic health care training programme for all primary health workers, such as nurses and doctors to properly train them on how to handle COVID-19 cases.” She disclosed that CACOVID was also involved in the provision of Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to help the federal government’s effort in curbing the spread of the scourge. “Right now, our priority is to be as effective as we can in helping to curtail this COVID-19 threat. We are working on more comprehensive health intervention, which is around improving the quality of our Primary Health Care system in Nigeria. We have had a very big conversation with the Primary Health Care Development Agency and we want them to do as much as they can to make sure the heath care sector is able to attend to people’s needs,” she added.  PMB Emerges ECOWAS COVID-19 Response Champion Meanwhile, presidents of West African countries under the aegis of ECOWAS authority of heads of state and government have appointed President Muhammadu Buhari as champion of the COVID-19 response. According to a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, the appointment took place yesterday at the extraordinary ECOWAS summit on COVID-19 held via teleconferencing under the chairmanship of Mahamadou Issoufou, president of the Republic of Niger. During the teleconference, President Buhari called on fellow ECOWAS leaders to look beyond the challenges posed by the COVID -19 pandemic and tap into various opportunities that it presents for the betterment of lives in member states. “In every challenging situation such as the current one, there are also opportunities. Our region must therefore seek to find those opportunities provided by this gloomy global outlook for its benefit by embarking on the implementation of such critical policies, which before now, will be difficult to accept”, Adesina quoted Buhari as saying. While calling on his colleagues to intensify collaboration in order to save the region from “this deadly pandemic through sharing our experiences and best practices,” President Buhari outlined some measures taken by his government in response to the pandemic. These include. He listed the measures to include “the reduction of interest rates on all applicable Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) interventions from 9 to 5 per cent, introduction of a one- year moratorium on CBN intervention facilities, inauguration of Presidential Task Force to coordinate national efforts to combat the spread of the virus and ensure efficiency and effectiveness in line with the Nigerian action plan on health security. “The provision of relief materials including medical and food supplies as well as conditional cash transfers of N20, 000 each for poor and vulnerable households, and the establishment of more isolation centres and testing facilities to contain the spread of the virus”. The Nigerian leader also said that unprecedented economic uncertainties, including severe fiscal and foreign exchange constraints, amid a slowdown in global economic growth that most nations are grappling with, have made it imperative for “our sub-region to refocus on accelerating the implementation of our popular vision of ‘ECOWAS of the people’ by adopting dynamic regional policies aimed at providing relief to our citizens. “Despite declining revenues, government continues to spend massively on the containment of the virus, medical care for those infected and minimising impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable. This situation puts severe pressure on our finances by increasing our expenditures amid dwindling revenues. This invariably has led to a restructuring and reduction of our budget,” he added. President Buhari rallied other leaders to embrace agriculture, technology and innovation in order to emerge stronger. “It is imperative that while addressing short term challenges, we should also explore opportunities to promote strong and dynamic agricultural policies that will guarantee food security for our people, creating jobs and reducing poverty in the region. We must innovate and use technology to boost the digital economy and do things differently, but better,” he said. The Nigerian president affirmed Nigeria’s solidarity with other member states as they battle the virus. “At a time of global uncertainty such as this, caused by the devastating impact of the COVID-19, let me convey Nigeria’s solidarity with all the Member States as we collectively battle to defeat the pandemic. I am greatly saddened by loss of numerous lives and extend my heartfelt condolences to families of those who have lost loved ones throughout the region. I also wish infected victims speedy and full recovery,” he said. Buhari reiterated Nigeria’s commitment to the well-being and safety of the people in the sub-region and restated support for any initiatives that would curb the spread of the pandemic arising from the Summit.  UK Tests Vaccine On First Patients Meanwhile, the first human trial in Europe of a Coronavirus vaccine in Oxford began yesterday in the United Kingdom. Two volunteers were injected, the first of more than 800 people recruited for the study, while half will receive the Covid-19 vaccine, and half a control vaccine which protects against meningitis but not coronavirus. The design of the trial means volunteers will not know which vaccine they are getting, though doctors will. Elisa Granato, one of the two who received the jab, told the BBC: “I’m a scientist, so I wanted to try to support the scientific process wherever I can.” The vaccine was developed in under three months by a team at Oxford University. Sarah Gilbert, professor of vaccinology at the Jenner Institute, led the pre-clinical research. “Personally I have a high degree of confidence in this vaccine,” she said. “Of course, we have to test it and get data from humans. We have to demonstrate it actually works and stops people getting infected with coronavirus before using the vaccine in the wider population.” Prof Gilbert previously said she was “80% confident” the vaccine would work, but now prefers not to put a figure on it, saying simply she is “very optimistic” about its chances.  China Chamber Of Commerce Donates N48m To FG Meanwhile, the China General Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria has donated the sum of N48, 000, 000.00 (forty-eight million naira) to the federal government as its contribution to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The donation was received on behalf of the Presidential Task Force chairman and secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha, by the national coordinator of the taskforce, Dr Sani Aliyu, in Abuja. According to a statement by his media office, the SGF on behalf of the federal government of Nigeria, expressed appreciation over the support Nigeria has received from the Chinese government and its companies in the country. He indicated that Nigeria has had strong business ties with China, particularly in the infrastructural development of the country. He said, “China has contributed immensely to the infrastructural development of our country as well as the human development sector. The current COVID-19 pandemic which started in December continues to be a major concern for the rest of the world. It has become a global pandemic; thousands have died; 2.5 million infected and our country men at risk of infection.” Mustapha stressed that COVID-19 is the most important public health emergency of our time and therefore requires all hands to be on deck to effectively combat the pandemic. Also speaking, the Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr Zhou Pingjian, stated that China and Nigeria are allies in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The Ambassador noted that “to defeat the virus, solidarity and cooperation” are the most potent weapon. “China will never forget the invaluable support it received from the government and good people of Nigeria, including those Nigeria brothers and sisters who chose to stay-put in Wuhan, or other parts of China, at the most demanding stage of its outbreak response,” he added. He thanked the federal government, the Presidential Task Force, particularly for their dedication, professionalism and tireless work in fighting COVID-19. The president of the China Chamber of Commerce in Nigeria, Mr YE Shuijin, on behalf of the 160 members companies and staff in Nigeria, made the donation of N48,000,000.00 (forty-eight million naira).  