The Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu has commended the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike for his firm and personal leadership to check the spread of coronavirus in Rivers State. Ihekweazu, who gave the commendation yesterday while speaking at a meeting with Wike and NCDC officials, held at Government House, Port Harcourt, said Rivers State is important in the fight to stop the spread of the virus. He said: “This is a working visit. I want to thank you for your firm, strong, committed and personally led response to COVID-19 in Rivers State. “Rivers is one of the most important gate-ways into the country. One of the most important economies in the country. So, Rivers is important, not only to you but to the entire country. “We thank you very much for your leadership and we need your leadership to continue in order for us to continue doing our work nationally.” The NCDC Director General stated that his team is in Rivers State to engage with the state public health team to consolidate on the successes on the fight against coronavirus. Ihekweazu said: “This is actually a joint team. I have come with the officer in charge of World Health Organisation. We have come together to offer our support. “Your Excellency, you have an excellent public health team to which I have an excellent working relationship with. We have a close technical working relationship. “The purpose of this visit is to engage with the team and understand their challenges and continue driving that close coordination.” The NCDC boss noted that because of the unique nature of the virus, all stakeholders must work in Unity. He said: “The unique nature of this virus is that it is a global pandemic. None of us can do this on our own. No country can do this on its own. “We share information across the states to make sure that everyone is informed as they can possibly be. We share information on new developments, strategies, what works and what doesn’t work. “Whether it is in detection, prevention and treatment, our role as NCDC is to make sure that our technical colleagues , are able to respond at all levels and are supported in any way with the expertise they need.” Ihekweazu stated that because the prolonged lockdown cannot continue indefinitely, stakeholders must begin to work towards gradually reopening the economy without endangering the population. The NCDC leader also urged the private sector to focus more on helping the states to build their capacity to respond to the virus. Responding on behalf of the Rivers State government, the Commissioner for Health, Professor Princewill Chike, said that Governor Wike has strengthened the public health system of the state to fight coronavirus. Chike stated that before the coronavirus pandemic, the Rivers State government was already battling Lassa Fever, Monkey Pox and HIV/AIDS. He said as a result of the proactive leadership of Governor Wike, the State has no current confirmed case of coronavirus, adding that the two cases in the state have been treated and discharged.