Barely 72 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari reeled out certain measures to mitigate the impact of the lockdown of the federal capital territory (FCT) as well as Lagos and Ondo States, the federal government is set to announce more palliatives to cushion the effect of the restriction order on vulnerable Nigerians. The president, while announcing the shutdown of Abuja and the two southwest states in a live broadcast to the nation on COVID-19 last Sunday, approved two months cash transfer for vulnerable Nigerians, deployment of relief materials to citizens living in suburbs and satellite towns, and two months of food rations in the coming weeks for internally displaced persons, among others Although, more states had joined the lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, the federal government has so far limited it to the FCT, Lagos and Ogun States. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who disclosed the plan of the government to roll out more palliatives to cushion the effects of the lockdown said that President Buhari has mandated him to handle the task as the head of the Economic Sustainability Committee. Speaking on the readiness of government to tackle the fallouts of the pandemic, the vice president restated the palliatives mentioned in the president’s speech on Sunday, even as he explained that the Buhari administration’s Social Investment Programmes would be scaled up. Asked about how the Buhari administration intends to grapple with the consequences of the restriction of movements in parts of the country and support vulnerable Nigerians, the vice president said the president has actually just established the Economic Sustainability Committee, which he has asked him to chair.“ The committee, he noted, is to take care of the economic challenges and fallouts of the pandemic and the attendant movement restrictions in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun States. He said the committee will also develop further palliatives, and a sustainability plan to reposition the economy and grow the non-oil sector. He said, “First of all we must admit that there is very little precedent for what we are doing today. This is not the sort of situation that anyone necessarily prepares for. But fortunately for us we have in the past few years designed a social investment programme that tries to address some of these types of concerns. “Part of the work of the Economic Sustainability Committee that has been constituted is to look at some of the concerns that affect the poor, especially in the context of what has already been done and the data that we already have on informal workers and informal traders and how to implement some strategy that will be able to alleviate the sufferings of the poor (and the informal workforce) at this time, and how to integrate some of the data that we have in other respects. “So, we have data of the poorest of the poor. With the assistance of the World Bank, we have developed what is called the National Social Register where we mapped out, in practically all local government areas in Nigeria, those who are considered the most vulnerable. “Already, some of them get conditional cash transfers but again, compared to the numbers, it is not large enough. Now we have an opportunity of doing much more in terms of giving the poor and vulnerable some kind of assistance. “The N-power is one of our schemes where we provide opportunities for young Nigerians who have no jobs at the moment. Again the president has asked that we take a look at that and see how we can enhance that and do more. This provides yet another opportunity to widen the scope and provide more. “One of the critical things is the fact that the whole Home Grown School Feeding Programme also has a large number of cooks; there are over 100,000 men and women scattered across the local government areas in this country who cook for these children. “So, at the moment, they may well be out of work. So, part of what we are also looking at is for them to continue to earn a living even with the current closing down of schools. They are also obviously endangered. The Honorable Minister is working on that and I will be working closely with her to see what can possibly be done to deliver on the president’s directive on that.” Osinbajo also faulted Nigerians questioning the legality of the presidential order restricting movement in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun States, saying measure was backed by the country’s extant laws. The vice president made the submission in Abuja while responding to questions on Monday at the Google Hangout Programme organised by HACK COVID-19 Call Centre, a private sector initiative supporting Nigeria’s fight against the coronavirus pandemic. A statement by his spokesman, Laolu  Akande, quoted the VP as saying: “Regarding the legality of the shutdowns announced by the president on Sunday, I think it is entirely legal. These steps are proactive, very relevant; important and backed by law. I am not so sure some of the people who have commented on the issue have come across the Quarantine Act. “There is a Quarantine Act of 1926;   it has been published in all of the Laws of Nigeria. Every edition of the Laws of Nigeria, it is there. What the Act does is that it allows the president to designate any local area, any part of the country, as a place that may be infected or under the threat of a communicable disease, and then make regulations of any kind. “For instance, he can say people should not go out; no public gatherings, among others. So, it is a regulation that gives the president powers and these powers come from the National Assembly because, of course, it is an act of the National Assembly”. According to Osinbajo, by virtue of the constitutional rules, the 1926 Act is deemed to be an Act of the National Assembly. He said that the president as well as governors had extensive powers under the Quarantine Act of 1926. Osinbajo urged all interested individuals and groups to personally go through the legislation in order to understand the provisions therein. He noted: “It is barely one-page legislation, so it is not particularly difficult to find the relevant provisions and it is not particularly difficult to read, very straightforward. So, the president has all the powers. “Many of us are not familiar with the Influenza pandemic that killed several millions around the world in 1918. At that time, regulations were made here, very similar to what we have today, although that was under the colonial authorities. “They also banned public gatherings, banned gatherings in places of worship then. So, there is even good historical precedence for some of what we are doing today”. The Vice President however assured that though the challenges are daunting and expectations high, government was ready and willing to address all of them. On incorporating local manufacturers in the production of some of the items needed to manage the pandemic, the vice president said, “We have been working with many clusters of private sector manufacturers under the MSMEs clinics. “For example, a lot of the clusters like the tailoring cluster in Aba have come together to give us different samples of some of the protective equipment that health workers wear. They have sent us one or two samples and the NCDC will tell us whether any of them is appropriate for the circumstances so that they can begin to manufacture on a larger scale. “Similarly, those who are making hand sanitizers are working on something. These are all local manufacturing concerns. Also, some people are even looking at local fabrication of ventilators.” Addressing issues raised about how government could help private organizations to scale up their respective interventions, the vice president said state governments have been encouraged to fully support all private initiatives aimed at addressing issues relating to the pandemic. Responding to participants at the hangout, the vice president added: “If you have specific cases, and ideas you may channel it through the HACK COVID-19 Call Centre, so at least we can identify those specific ones that may require some assistance. „But what is happening now is that there are so many private initiatives and a lot is happening at the state level. We have had conversations with the Governor of Lagos State, the FCT Minister, and the Governor of Ogun State, between yesterday and today, on this matter. “Again, with respect to moving relief items from point to point, especially with the lockdown, already exceptions have been made for this. The president made specific provisions for those who are moving relief items or rendering essential services in one form or the other. “The state governors have been charged to ensure that this is done properly and that people are assisted, that relief organizations, charitable organizations who are concerned with these services are helped along the way. If there are specific problems, those could be fed back to us”. The online event, Google Hangout, was moderated by Ms Ore Disu, a development expert and researcher with other technology innovators as participants. FG Meets Service Chiefs To Review Lockdown Protocols Meanwhile, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has met with service chiefs in the country to review the protocols for implementing the lockdown in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja. Chairman of the taskforce and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, disclosed this yesterday during PTF briefing on COVID-19 in Abuja. According to him, the lockdown was for the benefit of the country and its citizens. He said, “The presidential task force has met with the security chiefs to smoothen rough edges of implementation within the first day of implementation and we are working on issuing an appropriate restriction protocol and exemption guidelines, which will guide the subsequent days of restrictions. “Initial feedback is that there is substantial compliance but, however, there are violations of those restrictions by citizens that we desire to protect. Let me emphasise that the decision to lock down is to prevent community spread which might be dangerous to manage. “It can only be done by Nigerians and for Nigerians. So, we use this medium to implore our people and plead with them to please respect and honour restrictions that have been imposed for the good of our people and nation.” The SGF also statede that newspaper vendors were exempted from the restriction in Lagos and Ogun States as well as Abuja, saying the president’s speech was clear on that. He said, “I used to have a friend who was the Chairman of the Newspaper vendors association and they have their identities. “Provided they can establish that that is their trade, and of course, a vendor cannot operate from his house, he has to be on the streets to distribute the papers. I believe Paragraph 41 of Mr President’s speech adequately covers that”.  Lagos, FCT Residents Stay Indoors, Count Losses Residents of Lagos and Abuja complied with the lockdown order as the Police and other law enforcement agencies continued with the enforcement of the directive that all markets, churches and mosques be closed as part of efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. As at the time LEADERSHIP went round the densely populated Abuja border towns, including Ado, New Nyanya, and Masaka in Nasarawa State shops were under lock and key. Mrs Elizabeth Ikwu who was at the New Nyanya market buying food items said prices had gone „a bit up“. „My fear about this whole thing is that if it continues like this, we may not be able to cope with the stay-at-home order,“ she said. On her part, a shop owner, Nkechi Efurun, who sells food items in the market, said prices of commodities are bound to rice in accordance with the „principle of demand and supply“. Chukwuma Oke who owns a building material shop in the area also narrated his ordeal. Oke who fell and broke his hand while being threatened at gun point by the security operatives said his shop was closed but he came to release materials to his customers who had paid for them the previous week when the policemen in mufti appeared to arrest them. Another shopkeeper who escaped from the police station (names withheld) said they were asked to go to the court where they would bail themselves. Another arrested suspect who also did not give his name said they were told to bail themselves with N10, 000. However, LEADERSHIP observed that residents of the area were confused as to whether it was the federal government shutdown order for Lagos and Ogun States and Abuja in the face of the pandemic that is being executed the security operatives. Abuja Airport road and a popular supermarket on the road experienced low traffic in both human and vehicles movement yesterday. When this reporter visited Shoprite at the parking area, it was nearly empty with not more than 7 vehicles parked. Meanwhile, some residents of Pyakasa, a suburb in Airport road, who spoke to LEADERSHIP, expressed satisfaction with the government directive. One of them, Abdullahi Ina said, “It is a welcome development and I am highly impressed with the decision but they need to do more because as we stay at home, there are certain things we need to do.” Another resident, Emmanuel Amodu, expressed support for the government decision, saying “most of the time we blame certain government decisions, but on this, it is a welcome development, and I am urging all Nigerians to obey the order, anybody who violates the order should face the music.  Security Agents Impound Vehicles, Motorcycles In Ekiti Erring vehicles and motorbikes were yesterday impounded in Ekiti State as enforcement of total lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus in the state commenced. Governor Kayode Fayemi had in a state-wide broadcast on Sunday ordered total shutdown of the state to prevent further spread of the dreaded virus. The governor ordered the restriction of human and vehicular movements across the state commencing from yesterday. Combined forces of security agencies who patrolled Ado Ekiti Metropolis and other towns arrested and impounded the vehicles to enforce the order. Soldiers, men of the Department of State Services, Police, operatives of  Ekiti State Peace Corps, Ekiti State Traffic Management Agency, Federal Road Safety Corps and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps were all over the place enforcing government directive. The defiant motorists and commercial motorcyclists were arrested by the operatives with their vehicles and motorbikes impounded for violating the order. Hundreds of vehicles and motorbikes arrested were impounded inside the main bowl of the Fajuyi park pavilion in the state capital. The security personnel mounted barricades at all the entry points and highways, while their men took over major junctions like Ijigbo, Okeyinmi, Fajuyi and Odo Ado to control in and outflow of humans and vehicles .  Imo Residents Observe Stay-at-home Order The shutdown order by the Imo State government on markets and other socio-economic activities witnessed very impressive compliance by traders and the general public within the state capital. The teams monitoring the various market locations witnessed that the popular Ekeukwu market in the heart of Owerri was largely deserted, with only pockets of street traders at Ekeonunwa and School Road axis. The entire Douglas Road, usually over-run by street traders, was also devoid of any trading activity, with the doors of most shops lining the road firmly shut. Towards Orji axis, there was total compliance up to the traditional Nkwo-Orji market which was totally empty as convoys of combined Security Teams patrolled the area. Even shops along the stretch of Okigwe Road to Obilubi Mbieri in the neighboring Mbaitoli local government area were all under lock and key, including major super markets and eateries. The same scenario played out at Egbeada Main Market along Orlu road axis which was fully shut, while contrastingly, the Amakohia mini-market, a centre for food stuff was booming. However, upon getting wind of imminent raid by the enforcement team, the traders scampered away, wityh many abandoning their wares.  Last-minute Shopping In Asaba As Soldiers Force Foodstuff Price Cut Asaba residents yesterday embarked on last minute shopping despite the outrageous increase in prices of commodities following the commencement of stay at home order by the state government. LEADERSHIP gathered that military personnel who came for shopping at the popular Ogbeogonogo market in Asaba and discovered a sharp increase in prices of commodities demanded that the traders must reverse to normal prices, which they complied with as price of garri which was sold earlier in the day for N1500 per bucket was reversed to N700. Prices of commodities especially garri, rice, beans and yam have reportedly skyrocketed as a result of panic buying by residents of the state ahead of the lockdown beginning today. The situation in Cross River State was tense, with rumours that one or two persons who may have been infected with the COVID 19 pandemic failed to open up that they were infected with the deadly virus.  Ganduje Monitors Compliance, Orders Arrest Of Defaulters Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, yesterday paid an unscheduled visit to boundary towns linking Kano State and other states. The governor ordered the arrest and prosecution of all those violating the border closure instruction. LEADERSHIP reports that the defaulters were loaded in two tippers, two trucks, two buses and one coaster but along Zaria – Kano road. Governor Ganduje instructed them to return back to their respective states where they would be made to face the wrath of the law for violating the order imposed by the state. „We are here to see how people are complying with the directive we gave for boundary closure. Those you are seeing here are from Madallah in Abuja. And most of them were not screened to ascertain their health condition. And more so, there is a directive banning all kinds of movement which they all violated”, he stated.  Cases Rise To 139 As Nigerian Doctor Dies In UK Meanwhile, the federal government revealed yesterday the number of COVID-19 cases has risen to 139 It also hinted that over 300 Gene Xpert machines that are used for tuberculosis diagnosis will be converted to be used for COVID-19 detection within the next two to three weeks. The minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, who stated this during the Presidential Task Force Briefing on covid-19, yesterday in Abuja, also said that more laboratories will join the network of molecular diagnostic laboratories for COVID-19 in Kaduna, Kano, Maiduguri, Port Harcourt and Sokoto. According to him, more testing sites have been opened in Ibadan and Abakaliki, while existing laboratories are being optimized in their performance. On Covid-19 confirmed cases in the country, Ehanire said, „As of today the 31st of March 2020, we have recorded 135 confirmed cases of Covid -19 in Nigeria, of which 81 are in Lagos, 25 in the FCT, 8 in Oyo, 4 in Ogun, 3 in Kaduna, 2 in Bauchi, 2 in Edo, 2 in Osun, 2 in Enugu, and one each in Benue, Ekiti and Rivers. He further stated that majority of persons from overseas and others were traced, as well as their close contacts, noting that the high number of cases in Lagos and Abuja was because of their functions as a gateway for international air travel. He stated: “Additional strategies are being developed to intensify contact tracing to support prompt case detection, isolation, and treatment in order to reduce the spread of this infection. “The incidence of new cases into Nigeria as a result of the closure of the airport and land borders will reduce the number of implications so that we will be dealing largely with those which have already been brought into the country and are being transmitted from person to person“. On preparedness and treatment, Ehanire said the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has engaged hundreds of ad-hoc staff to support call centres, contact tracing and laboratory work, adding that many retired staff of the NCDC and also of the Ministry of Health, have reported for duty. Meanwhile, a Nigerian medical doctor, Alfa Sa’adu, has died in the United Kingdom after being infected with Coronavirus. The 68-year-old man, who is a native of Kwara State, died yesterday. Until his demise, Sa’adu worked at Princess Alexandra Hospital NHS Trust and was a former medical director of London Hospital. A family member, who confirmed the news to SaharaReporters on Tuesday, said that the victim’s wife, who is also a medical doctor in the UK, was also infected with the virus and was currently in a critical state at a hospital. Ahman Makams, a nephew of the late 68-year-old said Dr Sa’adu contracted the virus after going to a hospital as a consultant to help patients struggling with the disease. He said, “I just lost my uncle this morning In London. Until his death, he was Galadima of Patigi and former Medical Director of London Hospital. “May his soul rest in peace and may Allah grant him with Aljannah. He went as a consultant to help and it was in the process that he contracted the virus. His wife also has the virus but is receiving treatment currently.” Dr Sa’adu graduated from University College, London, with a BSC in Anatomy in 1973 and from University College Hospital Medical School with MB.BS in 1976. He returned to Nigeria in 1979 for his National Youth Service before teaching and training at Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital in Zaria, Kaduna State. Sa’adu, who is the third Galadiman Patigi and was turbaned in March 2000, returned to London in 1984 and rose to become the Medical Director and Deputy Chief Executive at Ealing Hospital NHS Trust.  One Discharged As NCDC Traces 5,000 Contacts Meahwile, the NCDC has said it was tracing about 5,000 contacts across the country. This is just as the coronavirus index case in Ekiti state was on yesterday discharged. The patient was discharged after completing his treatment and was confirmed negative to the test for the dreaded virus. The patient had been receiving treatment since March 18, 2020 at the Ekiti State Infection Disease Control Centre in Oba Adejuyigbe General Hospital Ado-Ekiti. Speaking after he was discharged, the patient said that the state government had been up to the task throughout the period he was quarantined at the center. „I appreciate the state government, the medical team and the entire Ekiti people for standing by me at my trying moment,“ he said. Confirming the patient‘s discharge, the commissioner for Health and Human services in the state Dr.Mojisola Yaya-Kolade disclosed that the index case was given best treatment and was confirmed free of the virus with all test carried out. „We are happy to inform Nigerians most especially the Ekiti residents that the only index case in the state has been discharged today, he has been treated of the deadly Corona virus,“ she said. Yaya- Kolade said the 41 contacts of the patient that had been put in self-isolation are being closely monitored and all necessary tests have been done to curb the spread of the virus in the state. She urged all Ekiti residents to adhere hygienic life style and obey the stay at home order of the state government.  Bauchi Records 3rd Case Of Coronavirus Bauchi State has recorded its third case of coronavirus, the deputy governor Senator Baba Tela said yesterday. The deputy governor who spoke to journalists while unveiling a 150-bed capacity isolation centre in Bayera said the third case is a 55-year-old „and we have isolated him and he is under our management“. Baba Tela said the state government will continue to partner with NCDC to conduct more test.