To cushion the effects of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Akwa Ibom State government said that  it is now set to provide the needed palliatives for the people. Addressing newsmen yesterday in Uyo, the secretary to the state government (SSG), Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, said that the relief materials including rice, garri, flour and other essential food items will be given out to ameliorate the effects of the Quarantine and Restriction of Movement Regulations 2020. He said that a disbursement committee has been set up to deal directly with all villages and community leaders to enable the items trickle down to all and sundry. “It is worthy of note that the state owned Rice mill that was commissioned a few years ago is meeting the rice needs of the state, especially at a time like this. “Similarly, the flour mill; and most digitized in West Africa, has produced enough tonnage to meet the demands of domestic bread and other confectionary needs in our state and beyond,” he said. Ekuwem disclosed that  various garri processing factories set up in the state  are complementing local production in cushioning the inflationary trends and the lull in domestic economic activities. “The state government is also working round the clock and deploying every available resources at its disposal to ensure that the situation is under control. “We have so far procured and distributed large numbers of PPEs and other requisite tools and equipment to relevant health care institutions in the state while government has increased the number of isolation centres in the state and set up a situation room manned by more than 50 medical experts,” he said. He added that the state government has received donations from several well-meaning corporate bodies and private individuals and called on other corporate organizations located in the state to lend support in cash or kind. Ekuwem  noted that while Governor Udom Emmanuel  is leading from the front in the fight against the pandemic it’ is imperative for residents and citizens to remain law abiding and fully observe the lock-down order as contained in the Quarantine and Restriction of Movement Regulations 2020. “Residents and citizens are therefore enjoined to continue to observe all personal and respiratory hygiene guidelines earlier issued and adhere to the social distancing prescriptions”, he stated.