The Consolidated Hallmark Insurance (CHI) Plc has applauded the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC) and the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), among others, for the roles they played in the extension of the company’s rights issue. The managing director/ CEO, who specifically thanked SEC for the approval of the offer period extension to 1st of May from the 1st of April, noted that the current coronavirus outbreak was responsible for the extension. He added that it was owing the fact that discerning investors would usually wait to the last week of the offer before putting their money through, while seizing the opportunity to give kudos to regulators for being supportive and proactive during this period. Following the virus outbreak, Efekoha reiterated that having insurance policy or policies that covers one’s valued assets is the surest way of having peace of mind. Efekoha who also doubles as the President of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) cited a couple of instances around the world where insurance has come through to rescue notable world events and businesses. Although he acknowledged that there are no insurance cover for pandemics such as Covid-19 in Nigeria, and that there are very few cases abroad, he said, a high demand for the cover is however expected to rise in the coming weeks as people’s eyes would have been opened to the benefits of insurance. To him, “In the days, months and years ahead, we expect insurance cover for pandemics and other infectious outbreaks to be in high demand and the insurance industry would be expected to come up with an appropriate response and when it is done, the insuring public would be made aware.” On the financial impact of the pandemic on the industry, insurers, he said, may not pay claims for business interruption flowing directly from the outbreak of Coronavirus due to the absence of the cover but the sector remains poised to respond appropriately when business interruption occurs due to specified risks in policies like fire outbreak, explosion damage, among others. He, however, noted that some burglars have taken advantage of the coronavirus lockdown by burgling shops of business owners who are observing the lockdown directive of the federal government. In such case, he pointed out that, if the business owners have insurance, they can be rest assured of a compensation.