The Katsina State government plans to impose another 14-day total lockdown of the state to check the coronavirus pandemic. The permanent secretary, Ministry of Health and member of the state’s COVID-19 Committee, Dr Kabir Mustapha, stated this through a text message that the government is thinking about imposing a lockdown on- the state. Already, there has been growing concerns and calls in the state especially by civil society groups and well-meaning individuals for the imposition of lock down to enable the state government complete contact tracing on the index case, quarantine those identified, fumigate the state and improve on testing and screening of potential carriers. Haruna Abdul Hamid, Secretary of Coalition of Civil Society Organisation in Katsina State, told newsmen in Katsina that the action is long overdue considering the vulnerability of the people of the state exposed by the index case According to him, ’’The stand of the coalition is that people are aware of this ban on social gathering by the government and with recent discovered case in Daura, people are saying Katsina should be looked down even as the government relaxed the ban on Juma’at prayers’’. Also, Ibrahim Sogiji, a member of the coalition,  said the implications of the recording of the first case at Daura are numerous including the fact that it is a border town to Niger Republic which is not more than 30 km and that it has an international market around Maia’dua, Baure, and other strategic places. ’’Residents of Daura and environs have a certain culture where they use to travel to Lagos and other neighbouring states for trade. It has no link with state Radio, neither the FM nor the state Radio but they have a television station call NTA. ‘’You can lockdown Daura and environs alone though the town is a route to Niger Republic, Kano, Katsina and Jigawa but it will not have the needed impact. So it should be a statewide lock down with provisions for palliatives’’, he explained. The NGO further called for a synergy between the state COVID-19 Committee, the National Committee and several other civil society groups to complement the effort of the state government.