Federal Government on Wednesday said it has procured seventeen latest Armoured Tanks and Artillery vehicles to tackle the problem of insecurity in the country.  The Nigerian Army Chief  Policy and Plans,  Lieutenant General, Lamidi Adeosun who disclosed this to journalists in Lagos said the sophisticated machines and equipment were facilitated by the Nigerian Army Defence Headquarters through the Nigerian Port Authority in Lagos.  Adeosun said the process of acquiring the equipment have been on for some time, saying the process had been accomplished with the delivery of the armament to the country.  He said, ”We are here to witness the reception of the armament, the government of Nigeria through the ministry of defence as procured for the Nigeria Army.  “From what you can see, you can see how serious the government of Nigeria is in making sure that not only is the Army reequipped as necessary, but to ensure that the insecurity problem we are having all over the country are tackled not only with trained personnel but the required equipment.  “We can see for ourselves, this is just a tip of the iceberg and many others are still coming, but it is important that we all see that both the military and the government are really very serious in tackling the security problems across the nation”.  According to him, the equipment acquired from China are in different categories, adding that they are heavy tanks, the light tanks and  two types of artillery heavy guns.  “They are new ones, the latest technology in tank and artillery armament is what you are seeing. Before today, the first set of 15 forty feat containers offloaded from the sea made up of spare parts and accessories for all these equipment. Those ones are already on their way to their various destinations.”  He stated that, those who will operate the equipment have been trained in China, saying the trainers from China will also come to train more people in the country.  ‘’Nigerian should expect a more robust cooperation to end menace of insecurity, whether Boko Haram, bandits or whatever, this are the first batch of a many of them coming.’’ 