An 18-man team of medical experts, including doctors, nurses and other medical advisers, from China is expected to arrive Nigeria in a few days to assist the federal government tackle the Coronavirus pandemic. Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Enahire, who gave the hint at the daily briefing of the presidential task force on COVID-19 in Abuja yesterday, also disclosed that a group of Chinese companies working in Nigeria have donated medical supplies to support the country’s fight against COVID-19. He listed the items to include commodities such as personal protective equipment and ventilators. He said, “I have been notified of medical supplies from China, courtesy of a group of Chinese companies working here in Nigeria. A special cargo aircraft shall leave Nigeria in a few days to collect the items which include commodities, personal protective equipment and ventilators. “An 18-man team of Chinese medical experts including doctors, nurses and other medical advisers shall come along with the flight to assist us. I must at this juncture commend our frontline workers who are doing a great job in case identification and management. “As we prepare to contain COVID-19, we must not lose sight of other health challenges in our country. Routine health service must continue in our hospitals. Only a wing of tertiary health centres should be used for infected patients.” The minister noted that close to 3,000 samples have been tested for the disease, adding that Nigeria will witness an increase in confirmed coronavirus cases despite the lockdown. Meanwhile, Nigeria has recorded 190 confirmed cases out of which Lagos state, the epicentre of the disease, has 98 cases. The federal capital territory (FCT) has 38; Osun, 20, and Oyo, eight cases. Akwa Ibom state has five cases; Ogun and Edo states have four each; Kaduna, four; Bauchi, three. Enugu and Ekiti states have two cases each while Rivers and Benue states have recorded one each. In Africa, over 7,000 cases have been recorded with 284 deaths spread across 50 countries. Globally, the confirmed cases hit one million on Thursday, with at least 51, 300 people dead from complications of the disease. The infection has spread to 204 countries and territories since the first case was recorded in Wuhan, China, late December. On March 24, Jack Ma, co-founder of Alibaba, a Chinese e-commerce company, donated medical kits for Nigeria to fight coronavirus pandemic.  Confirmed Cases Now 210 Meanwhile, Nigeria has confirmed 20 new cases of COVID19, bringing the total confirmed cases to 210. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) 11 of the cases were reported in Lagos, 3 in the FCT, 3 in Edo, 2 in Osun & 1 in Ondo. Two new deaths were recorded in Lagos and Edo State. “As at 10:30pm 3rd April, there are 210 confirmed cases of COVID19 reported in Nigeria”, the centre stated.  25 Patients Recover, Discharged In Nigeria Meanwhile, four COVID-19 patients have been discharged from the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Yaba, Lagos. Akin Abayomi, the state’s commissioner for health, made the announcement at a media briefing. The development is coming few hours after 11 patients were discharged on Thursday. Eight persons were discharged earlier. The latest recoveries bring the total number of discharged persons in the state to 23. Two patients had recovered and were discharged in Ekiti and Oyo States. The recovery toll nationwide is now 25. Ogun State Government yesterday said it has discharged the third coronavirus patient, having shown considerable improvement in his health condition and tested negative to the deadly coronavirus. The state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, who disclosed this at a press conference held late yesterday  at his private residence at Iperu Remo in Ikenne local government area of the state said the lockdown in the state begins Friday night. According to him, the state government has declared a total restriction from Friday April 3 till Tuesday morning of April 7 across the state, saying the total lockdown of the state for the first three days is to allow for complete fumigation the state. Abiodun hinted that the state is targeting 500, 000 households for the relief materials packaged by the state government to cushion the effects of the lockdown. He explained that the relief package, which comprised of 5kg each of rice, beans, “gari”, as well as tomatoe pastes, vegetable oil, salt and seasoning cubes among others were principally targeted for poor and the vulnerable members of the society. Deaths Now 4 In Nigeria As Lagos Records First Death The number people who have died of coronavirus complications in the country has increased to three as 55-year-old man who was admitted to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, died yesterday. The hospital, it was learnt, found out that the patient had coronavirus after he was tested positive to the virus when a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test was carried out on his blood posthumously. The deceased who was said to be a hypertensive and diabetic patient was admitted to the emergency unit of the LUTH on Thursday night for malaise, tremors and fever. The man who did not disclose his travel history and had died a few hours after he was admitted to the hospital was also diagnosed with acute chronic kidney disease and sepsis. A junior doctor (Reg) at the Accident & Emergency Unit reviewed his case after he developed complications and notified the Senior Registrar of the development. Effort by the Senior Registrar to save his life did not yield result as the man reportedly died in the early hours of yesterday. The Lagos State coronavirus emergency workers took away his body.  COVID-19 Corpses  Can’t Be Claimed For Burial – FG The federal government has maintained that corpses of persons who tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19) cannot be claimed for burial by families of the deceased. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who stated government’s position said such corpses would be handled by the ministry of health because they are contagious. He said this while speaking at a News Agency of Nigeria forum in Abuja to give an update on the activities of the presidential task force on COVID-19. According to NAN, the minister commended Nigerians for complying with the federal government’s stay-at-home directive, adding that it would boost the efforts of stakeholders in the fight to curb the spread of coronavirus. “Coronavirus is very dangerous and contagious; there is no medicine for it yet and it is not just capable of killing, overwhelming healthcare system, it will destroy the economy. In some countries, they are putting dead bodies in big refrigerators, because the morgues have filled up. Nigerians should not forget that these are not the type of corpses that can be claimed for burial because it must be handled by the ministry of health,” he said. He called for the cooperation of citizens and asked them to “stay safe, obey simple instructions of basic hygiene and social distancing,” adding that “in a few weeks, we will resume our normal life”. Ondo Records First Index Case The Ondo state government has confirmed the first index case of Coronavirus in the state. The state government, in a statement by commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, said the suspected case was tested positive to the COVID-19 pandemic. Ojogo said, “It is with great concern that the Ondo State Government announces the first index case. A suspected case tested positive to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We thank God for His protection thus far. Ours has been a case of anxiety while we enjoyed a COVID-19 Free State status. “This development has, however, repudiated that enviable status even as we urge all to be vigilant and keep ourselves within the princints of measures put in place.”  US Records 1,169 Deaths In 24 Hours, Highest Single-day Toll Globally The United States has recorded 1,169 deaths from COVID-19 in 24 hours, the highest single-day toll from the disease so far in any country. Data from the John Hopkins University showed a total of 5,926 deaths have been reported in the US, which also has the highest number of cases worldwide at 245,570. In Italy, which had the global single-day record of deaths at 969, a total of 13,915 have now been killed by COVID-19 — the highest death-toll globally. About 115,242 persons have also been infected by the disease in the European country. Spain, the third worst-hit country, has also recorded 112,065 infections so far. Europe remains the most affected region with at least half a million cases — more than half of the total infections worldwide. The picture is less gloomy in Africa with 7,028 cases and 284 deaths across 50 countries, according to the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than 212,300 people have recovered from COVID-19 worldwide, as the World Health Organisation (WHO) and individual countries continue the search for a drug and vaccine.  FG To Evacuate Nigerians In Foreign Countries The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has directed all its missions abroad to compile lists of Nigerians willing to return home, it was learnt. Chairman, Nigerians in Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM), Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who disclosed this yesterday in Abuja, said the decision was sequel to requests by Nigerians stranded abroad in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. She, however, said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has instructed that “the financial implications will be borne by the prospective evacuees, who will be compulsorily quarantined when they return”. According to a statement made available to journalists yesterday, the head, Media and Public Relations Unit, NIDCOM, Abdur-Rahman Balogun, interested citizens should inform the embassy in their country of residence about their intention to return to Nigeria. It said, “The interested Nigerians are advised to inform the missions in the various countries they are in, which will then collate and coordinate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “To this end, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa urges Nigerians stranded abroad willing to return home to key into this federal government gesture by providing information to the mission in their respective host countries.”  PMB Warns Security Agencies Against Brutalising Nigerians President Muhammadu Buhari has cautioned security agencies not to harm or cause any pain to any Nigerian during the lockdown necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that videos had surfaced showing security agencies punishing some persons who flouted the lockdown order. Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, gave the president’s directive yesterday during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) in Abuja. He urged the agencies to be subtle in the course of enforcing the lockdown order in Lagos and Ogun States, as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He said, “The PTF finds it very necessary to appeal to our law enforcement agencies to deploy tact and caution in the course of enforcing the rules even in the face of provocation. “We similarly appeal to all Nigerians to be law-abiding, exercise patience and self-restraint. The message from Mr President is that no Nigerian should, on account of these rules, suffer any harm or pains during this period or any other time in our national life”. The SGF also appealed to traders and service providers not to increase the prices of goods and commodities “To the Nigerian traders and businessmen and women, we appeal for resistance to the urge to hike prices of goods and commodities during this period as our compassionate nature must prevail,” he added. While noting that the team had continued to monitor the situation across the country, the SGF said they have been receiving positive reports of high level of compliance with the lockdown orders in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja. According to him, coronavirus remains a potential danger to all of humanity and it threatens Nigeria’s economy and national security. He called on the people to play their part in the national response very seriously, as the federal government ensures measures to curb the spread of the disease. “The Federal Government has ramped up its synergy with the state governments through video-conferencing communication and the platform of the Governors’ Forum.By these measures, a lot of gaps are being closed for uniformity of purpose,” the SGF stated.  Couple Names Twin Babies Corona And Covid Meanwhile, an Indian couple has done the unthinkable by naming their newborn twins as Corona and Covid, names connected with the Coronavirus pandemic raging in the world. For the couple based in Raipur in the state of Chhattisgarh, the two words may evoke fear and devastation to the world. But for them, they symbolise triumph over hardship. They said the names remind them about all the hardships they overcame amid the lockdown, to have a successful delivery of the babies in the night of March 26-27 at a government hospital. “I was blessed with the twins, a boy and a girl, in the early hours on March 27. We have named them Covid (boy) and Corona (girl) for now,” Preeti Verma, the 27-old mother of the newborns, said in a report by The Hindu. She continued: “The delivery happened after facing several difficulties and therefore, me and my husband wanted to make the day memorable. “Indeed the virus is dangerous and life-threatening but its outbreak made people focus on sanitation, hygiene and inculcate other good habits. Thus, we thought about these names,” she said, giving reasons for their unusual decision. “When the hospital staff also started calling the babies as Corona and Covid, we finally decided to name them after the pandemic”. The couple, originally from Uttar Pradesh, reside in a rented house in the Purani Basti area of the state capital. However, they said they may rename their kids in the future.