President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning to pay salaries the salaries of workers to cushion the effects of the stay-at-home order occasioned by the outbreak of coronavirus. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, disclosed this to State House correspondents, yesterday, at the presidential villa, Abuja. She said that the president had also directed the ministry to ensure that critical infrastructure such as roads, rails are protected and as much as possible, use local inputs so that the country retains value within her economy. The minister, who heads the presidential committee to review the impact of coronavirus on the economy, said that the president further directed that measures that protect the poor and the vulnerable are in place. She said that the committee briefed the president on current happenings around the world due to COVID-19 and its impact on the nation’s economy. She said: “Well, he has directed that we should make sure that salaries are paid, ensure critical infrastructure like roads, rails are protected, as much as possible use local inputs so that we retain value within our economy. And also make sure that we measures that protects the poor and the vulnerable. “This meeting was just to brief Mr. President as the situation we in keeps evolving on a daily basis. As the health crisis gradually expands, affecting States and also the lockdown that has been ordered to help curtail expansion of the health crisis. “The consequences of the lockdown are the additional slowing down the economy and the measures that we need to take to mitigate the negative consequences of the slow trade and businesses. Another member of the committee and minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said the economy is not in the best of shape due to COVID-19 and oil prices are collapsing daily, hence the need for the president to be constantly briefed. The governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele, said that the economy is not looking rosy as everyone thought it would be. He said: “The global economy naturally like we all know at this time will suffer growth problems and may even lead to recession globally. So, we are trying to see what we can do as a country to rescue our situation so we don’t go the direction many will go.” BY ANDREW ESSIEN, Abuja The federal government has been urged to make its palliative for Nigerians as comprehensive to ease the hardship of the current lockdown of the country because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The call was made by the president of the Chris Emeritus Foundation and United States of America (USA)-based Nigerian, Chris Emejuru, who suggested that feeding centres at ward level should be created in addition to the payment of N18,000 minimum to poor Nigerians. In a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja yesterday, Emejuru said that his foundation has developed a proposal capable of addressing some of the challenges Nigerians experience during the total lockdown. The package, he said, three major areas which include health, economy and the social welfare of the citizens, are the major concerns. Emejuru said: “In the package is a proposal of N18,000 for the next several months to the poorest in Nigeria as well as the opportunity to start a business. “Through collaborative efforts with NGO’s, feeding centres should be created to address the food shortage problems. Hygiene and sanitation materials (toiletries) should also be distributed to the most vulnerable and every Nigerian citizen who needs it. “The government at all levels should also make vehicles available at every strategic locations so as to convey people who might develop any form of sickness to healthcare centres and to assist those affected by the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. FG Urged To Set Up Feeding Centres, Pay Nigerians N18,000 President Orders Payment Of Workers’ Salaries