In this report, MUYIWA OYINLOLA writes on the intrigues playing out in Kwara State over the appointment of a new Vice Chancellor for the state-owned university by Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, among others. Kwara State governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, is currently facing battles from different quarters of the state over his actions allegedly considered to be religious bias and ethnocentrism in against some interests in Kwara. Few days ago, the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) wrote an open letter to the governor, accusing him of deliberate marginalisation against the Kwara Christians in all the aspects of the state’s governance. Meawhile, in another development almost the same time last week, a Coalition Of Kwara North Elders rejected the appointment of an Ilorin-born Prof Muhammed Akanbi, as the new Vice-Chancellor of Kwara State University (KWASU). The elders, who cut across different political parties, in a statement issued in Ilorin, the state capital, described the decision of the state government to appoint Akanbi as ‘insensitive’, claiming it is extremely against the principles of ‘equity, justice and fairness’ in such a symbiotic and heterogeneous political entity like Kwara. Governor AbdulRazaq had on April 1, 2020 approved the appointment of Prof. Akanbi in the statement issued by the State Commissioner for Tertiary Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Sa’adat Modibbo-Kawu. Prof. Akanbi who hailed from Kwara Central is the son of the late Justice Mustapha Akanbi, a former President of the Court of Appeal and the pioneer chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC). But the coalition’s press release, endorsed by prominent elders in Kwara North led by former Goveror Shaba Lafiagi, who once represented the zone in the Senate, and Shehu Abdulrahman, said that the zone was marginalised for the position. “The entire people of the Kwara North Senatorial Zone in Nigeria and the diaspora have been much saddened by the appointment of Prof. Muhammed Mustapha Akanbi as the new Vice-Chancellor of the Kwara State University (KWASU). “The appointment is quite nauseating and very insensitive because it goes extremely against the principles of equity, justice and fairness in a symbiotic and heterogeneous political entity like our beloved Kwara State. “It is very timely for us to recall here that the fact that the Kwara State University was established with the resources of all sections of Kwara State is really never in doubt. “Indeed, it is an undeniable fact that not until recently, our five local government areas that constitute the Kwara North Senatorial Zone contributed funds through monthly deductions from our monthly statutory allocations and internally generated revenue, not only for the establishment but also for the sustenance of the university,” the statement read in part,” they said. The elders further faulted the appointment as failing the norms and conventions in Nigeria’s socio-political engineering process of balancing the allocation of the resources and privileges derivable from common patrimony. “Apart from the initial consideration in the three major positions where the governor came from Kwara Central; the Deputy Governor, Kwara South and the Speaker, Kwara North. “The idea of sustaining that equilibrium in the interest of equity, justice and fairness has been jettisoned, with a clear disregard for the interest of the Kwara North Senatorial Zone, especially in the light of the subsequent appointments made since the advent of the present administration in the state. “It cannot be argued or claimed that only professors from the Kwara Central Senatorial Zone are the only persons qualified for the position of the VC of KWASU. “This claim could not stand as available facts disclosed that while the Acting Vice Chancellor Prof. Mahmud Sakah (from Kwara North) came first in the interview conducted, Prof Muhammad Mustapha Akanbi who was just appointed came third! “Although, it is understandable that Your Excellency as the Visitor to KWASU reserves the right to choose a qualified person for the position of VC of KWASU, however, the pledges and assurances Your Excellency gave to the people of Kwara North Senatorial Zone that you will arrest the marginalisation on all fronts that the senatorial zone has been suffering for decades coupled with the zoning principle would have been considered in your decision in the appointment of the VC for KWASU,” they added. Other elders who signed the statement are Timothy Saba, Alfa Shonga, S.Y. Haliru, M T Mamman, S Y Abdullahi, Mohammed Haruna, Tajudeen Abdulkadir, Umaru Sha’aba, Mohamed Kudu and Kollo Rifun. Sule Ahman Patigi, Dabarako Mohammad, who is a former Head of Service in the state, Zubairu Rogun, Abdullahi Lade, Attahiru Manko and former Speaker Benjamin Yisa, among others, also signed the statement. The Kwara State chapter of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has also lend its voice to the development, calling on Governor AbdulRazak to immediately review Akanbi’s appointment as it is capable of breeding divisive tendencies in the state. Also, a United States-based academic and  Kwaran, Prof. Farooq Kperogi, accused the governor of “odious Ilorin-centric bigotry” regarding the KWASU appointment. “Why did Gov. AbdulRazaq pass over this well-published, experienced, and cosmopolitan scholar who was part of the founding professors of KWASU for Akanbi, a 1993 OAU law graduate, from the University of Ilorin who has never taught at KWASU and who has little administrative experience under his belt? “Simple: Mahmud is from Baruten, a marginal, non-Yoruba-speaking part of Kwara that is constitutive of what is called “Kwara North” in the state’s political vocabulary because of the cultural similarities between that part of the state and Nigeria’s far north. “Akanbi, who came third, is not only from Ilorin but is also the son of one of Ilorin’s prominent families. That’s the chief reason he was appointed VC. It’s inter-generational perpetuation of privilege with a dash of ethnic bigotry. “I frankly don’t care whom the governor chooses to appoint as his political aides, but passing over the most qualified candidate for the job of Vice Chancellor for a barely qualified intellectual parvenu because of where they come from is just outright condemnable.  That’s NOT how to govern a heterogenous polity—and certainly not how to run a university. I hope the governor reverses himself and apologizes,” Prof. Kperogi said. Meanwhile, there are political permutations to AbdulRazaq’s alleged marginalisation tendencies in the state, as some pundits believe he risk losing re-election in 2023 if the pattern continues. The reason is not far-fetched as Kwara North, which is currently not happy with the governor, is said to be his political stronghold. Analysts opine that the zone might take a pound of flesh in 2023. Kwara North produced about 80% votes to the governor’s victory in the 2019 governorship poll. Whether the governor will chance his leadership style regarding the allegations of marginalisation against him or not, time shall tell.