Tragedy struck again in Kano State yesterday as about 23 prominent sons and daughters of the state died within 24 hours from a yet to be identified ailment.  LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that the ancient Northern city had been enveloped in palpable tension following incessant deaths in the last couple of days with the number those caught in the strange and grisly death increasing by the day. Among those who passed on yesterday was Professor of Economics and former chairman of National Economic Intelligence Committee, Ibrahim Ayagi, who died at the age of 80. The CEO of Hassan Gwarzo School was said to have been ill for some time. Others are the Dean, faculty of Basic Medicine, of Maitama Sule University, Professor Ali Abdulaziz Dikko; former chairman, former executive secretary of Kano SUBEB, Alhaji Adamu Iliyasu Dal; Grand Khadi of Kano, Dahiru Rabiu; Musa Umar Gwarzo and a former editor of LEADERSHIP Sunday and editor of the state-owned Triumph Newspaper, Musa Tijjani who died at the age of 63. Other deaths recorded yesterday include the elder brother to former deputy governor Abdullahi Gwarzo, Alhaji Salisu Lado; Hajiya Shamsiyya Mustapha; Hajiya Nene Umma, Alhaji Garba Sarki Fagge; secretary, Students Affairs, North West University Kano, Dr. Nasiru Maikano Bichi; Prof Aliyu Umar Dikko of Physiology Department, Bayero University Kano; First Bank regional manager, Abdullahi Lawal, Alhaji Rabiu Dambatta; Kabir Ibrahim Bayero; Alhaji Idi Mai Lemo Sheka; mother of renowned businessman, Ado Gwanja and Capt. Abdullahi Gyadi Gyadi, among others. They were buried yesterday according to Muslim rites. Although there is nothing linking the strange deaths to Coronavirus, residents of the state are said to be living in fear as the death is becoming frightening. Ahmadu Dorayi, a resident of the metropolitan area, told our correspondent that the death rate has never been alarming and even as he faulted the position of medical experts that it could be as a result of the present unfavourable weather condition being experienced in the state. Some residents attributed the unusual deaths reportedly recorded in the city within the last three days to three major factors. Some of them told our reporters in separate interviews that the number of people that died and buried in the last couple of days was not unusual because of the dense population of some areas within the city. One of the residents and a Community leader, Alhaji Jafaru Gwarzo, said before now people were busy with their daily activities but with the lockdown and people staying at home, they have become mindful of whatever was going on within their area. “Most of the places that recorded high number of deaths are densely populated areas. Based on our findings, Abbatoir Cemetery in Fagge area recorded the highest number of burials because it is closed to densely populated areas like Gwammaja, Yola and Kulkul,” he said. According to him, there are some patients who needed treatment for other ailments but could not get access to health facilities due to the fact that attention had been shifted to COVID-19. He added that some patients could not get medical attention in the hospitals due to the stay-at-home order and restriction of movement. Another resident, Malam Garba Hassan said the number of deaths recorded within the last three days in the metropolis was alarming, adding that he could not recall the number of burials he has witnessed in their area. “The people who died were mostly buried in three major cemeteries in the city. This heightened fears of the residents that the deceased might have died as a result of a strange ailment. The corpses buried in the three cemeteries were many within this couple of days because four of the eight local government areas that constitute Kano Metropolis usually come to Abbatoir Cemetery to bury the dead,” he said. Some families of the deceased who spoke on condition of anonymity attributed the unusual deaths to outbreak of an ailment related to malaria and other deadly diseases such as diabetes, ulcer, even as they said some were asthmatic patients who were not given proper attention as a result of the shift and concentration on COVID-19 cases. A son of one of the deceased said his father died as a result of Malaria and was buried at the Abattoir Cemetery on Saturday. They, however, called on the state government to make the outcome of its investigation on the matter public in order to allay fears already generated as a result of the strange deaths. But the Kano State government had earlier dismissed the rumour of mass death in state being peddled on the social media. The clarification was contained in a statement signed by Auwalu Fagge, State Health Educator/Secretary, Risk Communication Sub-Committee on COVID-19. “This particular rumour has been investigated and found to be untrue and must be dispelled. The Taskforce has activated the Community Informants Structure of WHO to report death and cause of death and has also deployed officers to all burial grounds to count bodies brought in for burial everyday (the workers would conduct 2 shifts)”. The statement urged residents to disregard rumours of mass deaths in Kano metropolis. “Honestly, the media and rumour mongers have been trying their best in making us dispense energy in wadding them off. We cannot afford to let the good people of Kano panic and lose confidence in our response. I must state that we are more courageous than ever in a bid to contain this pandemic,” the statement added. Meanwhile, the state commissioner of health, Dr Aminu Tsanyawa said the ministry has commenced investigation into the posts being circulated on social media platforms on the purported death of a number of people within the last few days. PMB Pays Tribute To Prof Ayagi Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday paid tribute to renowned scholar and professor of economics, Professor Ibrahim Alkali Ayagi, describing him as an accomplished economist, banker and administrator who made outstanding contributions to the development of education in northern Nigeria, promotion of entrepreneurship and small businesses. The late Ayagi was among those who died yesterday in Kano State. President Buhari, in a statement by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, said he believes that as former chairman of the National Economic Intelligence Committee (NEIC), the late Ayagi will be long remembered and honoured for his diligent and professional roles in tackling Nigeria’s crippling foreign debt. Shehu said the president extended heartfelt condolences to Prof Ayagi’s family, the government and people of Kano and his many friends, students and admirers. He prayed that God will grant Prof Ayagi’s soul eternal rest and comfort all who mourn. “In the wake of the devastating impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the President also appeals to the multitude of mourners and sympathizers, particularly in home state of the deceased, to maintain social distancing, stay-at-home and observe all precautionary measures to curtail the transmission of the virus”, the presidential spokesman added. NNPC Sends N21bn Medical Items, Others To Kano State The Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has handed over medical consumables and other palliatives worth N21billion to Kano State government to help the state curtail the spread of COVID-19. Minister of Petroleum Resources, Timpire Sylva disclosed this when he led the management of NNPC to present the items to the state government yesterday at Government House Kano. According to the minister, since the inauguration of the Presidential Taskforce Commitee on COVID-19 headed by the Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), efforts are made to tame the spread of the virus. He said following this development, the NNPC and partners in the Oil and Gas industry embarked on an initiative covering three areas. He maintained that the areas includes provision of medical c consumables, deployment of logistics and delivery of medical infrastructure as well as donation of critical medical equipment to the Rivers State COVID-19 Isolation Center. He added that while to date the total commitment of NNPC and partners stands at N21billion, the gesture was still growing. According to him, NNPC and its partners, Chevron and Bovas Company limited, are distributing these items to states more affected by the Pandemic like Kano. Sylva listed the items to include 100 PPE overall full Kit, 100 PPE Shoe Covers, 2,000 PPE disposable caps, modern Ambulance, 500 Medical Surgical Masks, 2 full kit ventilators, 5,000 nitrile examination gloves, 250 face masks and fluid resistant face shield ,10 pulse oximetres and 250 respiratory valve. In his remarks, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje said his administration had taken all necessary measures in curtailing the spread of the virus, but the pandemic was still spreading in the state. He said government had established three modern isolation centers with a view to halting the spread of the virus. Ganduje noted that with the high population of Kano, there was need for additional testing centers in the state. Ganduje assured the minister and the management of the NNPC that all the items presented would be used judiciously. Those in the ministers Entourage include the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Alhaji Mele Kyari and other top government officials.