Foreign bodies, including the European Union (EU), as well as African and national leaders called and sent several messages of condolences to President Muhammadu Buhari as the remains of his late chief of staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, was yesterday laid to rest. He was put in the ground at about 11:22am at the military cemetery, Gudu, Abuja, after funeral prayers at the deceased residence. The officials who interred the late Kyari’s were in full personal protective kits and equipment as mandated by the Federal Ministry of Health to bury coronavirus victims. As advised by the protocols put in place by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the ministry on social distancing, the burial, according to the presidency, marked the end of all ceremonies for the late Kyari. Presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, noted in a statement that there will be no more condolence visits to the Kyari family and the presidency after yesterday’s burial rite. “Well-wishers and all other Nigerians are instead advised to pray for the repose of the soul of the late Chief of Staff. A condolence register will be opened at the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) from Sunday for those who are able to use the window permitted for movement by the FCT administration”, Shehu stated.  Kyari Died On Friday Of Complications From Coronavirus At A Hospital In Lagos Confirming his death, a statement issued by the special adviser to the president on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, in the early hours of yesterday noted that Kyari had tested positive to coronavirus and died on Friday while receiving treatment in a private hospital in Lagos. Following enquiries on his death, the Lagos State government yesterday disclosed that he died in First Cardiology Consultants Hospital in Lagos. The state government in a statement issued by its commissioner for Health, Professor Akin Abayomi, revealed that the Kyari died from complications of Coronavirus infection at First Cardiology Consultants in Lagos. The statement noted: “This hospital is a Lagos State designated high care, biosecurity-compliant, COVID-19 facility, accredited by the Health Facility Management and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA) of the Lagos State Ministry of Health. “As a basis for accreditation, First Cardiology Consultants established a separate specialist wing with staff dedicated to the treatment of complicated cases of COVID-19, under the supervision of the Lagos State COVID-19 emergency response team.” Since his appointment as the chief of staff to the president in August 2015, the late Kyari was a major player in the Buhari administrationt till he died on Friday, April 17. He was among the first key officers to be reappointed for a second when Buhari was re-elected as President in 2019. The European Union delegation to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) mourned the passing of late chief of staff to President Buhari, saying he was an inspiration to many. In a condolence message by Amb Ketil Karlsen, Head of the EU delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, the EU expressed sadness at the demise of Kyari who they described as a statesman. Karlsen described Kyari as an inspiration to many, adding that he was very passionate about the development of Nigeria. “I am deeply saddened to hear about the passing of Abba Kyari. My thoughts are with his family. He became a friend and was an inspiration with his passionate approach to development of Nigeria in general and the North in particular, may his soul rest in eternal peace”, he stated. President Muhammadu Buhari also received several messages of condolences from foreign and national leaders over the death of Kyari. The president received telephone calls from President Nana Akuffo-Ado of Ghana and President Muhammadou Youssoufou of Niger Republic. According to a statement by presidential spokesman, Shehu, the president also received calls of condolences from former President Yayi Boni of Benin Republic and two former Nigerian Heads of State, Generals Yakubu Gowon and Abdulsalami Abubakar. Shehu further noted that President Buhari also received similar messages of condolence from the embassies of friendly countries, including Egypt, Chad and Liberia. He said messages “were also received from Governors Nasir El-Rufa’i of Kaduna State, Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Professor Babagana Zulum of Borno State, Abubakar Bagudu, Kebbi, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State; former Governors of Katsina, Sa’idu Barda, Zamfara Abdulaziz Yari and Abdulfatah Ahmed of  Kwara as well as the former Senate President, Ken Nnamanni, the Sultan of Sokoto Dr. Sa’ad Abubakar 111 and the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. Samson Ayokunle. “The Emirs of Kazaure, Najib Hussaini Adamu; Kebbi, General Muhammadu Ilyasu Bashar (rtd), and that of Machina, Alhaji Bashir Al-Bashir Bukar; APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Chairman of Zenith Bank, Jim Ovia, President, Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote and the Executive Secretary of the Lake Chad Basin Commission, Ambassador Mamman Nuhu were among the early callers. “Calls to the President were also received from Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, former Ministers, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma and Gen. Ike Umaru Sanda Nwachukwu; Senators Monsurat Sunmonu and Kabiru Marafa as well as Pastor Tunde Bakare”, Shehu stated. State governors collectively and individually issued statements to express condolence over the death of the late chief of the staff to the president. The Nigeria Governors Forum under the leadership of Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi, in a letter offered their condolences to the president. Fayemi said, “Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) received with shock the news of the death of your Chief of Staff, Mallam Abba Kyari. On behalf of all the 36 State Governors under the platform of the NGF, write to offer our deepest condolences. “The late Abba Kyari steered the activities of your office with the passion and integrity of a patriot who wished nothing but progress for his country and demanded nothing but decorum, care and respect for those who sought your attention as the President. “With wisdom and foresight, he forged strong ties between the President and the Ministers, and strengthened the bond between our Forum and your administration. “He did not allow public perception to affect his loyalty to you and remained a pillar of your administration to his last breadth. May Allah (SW’I‘) grant you and our country the fortitude to hear this great loss. “As we condole with our President and country in this trying moment, the NGF avails this opportunity to renew to you the assurance of our highest consideration”.  Osinbajo, Aisha Buhari Mourn Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday expressed sadness over the passing away of the chief of staff to the president. He said, “Dolapo and I express our sympathies to the President, Mrs Kulu Kyari, the children, and members of the family on the passing of Mallam Abba Kyari, Chief of Staff to the President. May the Lord comfort and be with you all in Jesus name, amen”. Similarly, First Lady, Aisha Buhari also condoled with Mrs Kulu Abba Kyari and the entire Kyari family over the death of their husband and father. In a tweet in her twitter handle, she said, “From God Almighty we came and to him we shall return). I condole with Mrs. Kulu Abba Kyari and the entire family of Late Malam Abba Kyari over the death of their husband and father. “I pray that Allah (SWT) will forgive his shortcomings, grant him Al-Jannatul Firdausi and give the family the fortitude and patience to bear the loss, Ameen. While wishing all those infected a speedy recovery and I pray for an end to Covid-19 Pandemic”.  Kyari’s Death Shocking, Sad – Lawan President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan, said yesterday that he it was with shock and sadness that he received the news of the passing on of the chief of staff to the president, Mallam Abba Kyari. Lawan expressed his heartfelt condolence to the Kyari family over what he described as a great loss. The Senate president also condoled with President Buhari over the loss of the late Kyari he further described as a very competent, dedicated and loyal aide, who was a pillar in his administration. Lawan also extended his heartfelt sympathy to the government and people of Borno State over the passage of a great son of the state. In a statement signed by his media aide, Ola Awoniyi, the Senate president said Mallam Kyari drew from his experiences as a lawyer who was called to the Bar in 1983, a banker and a journalist to become an administrator par excellence who did his best as the topmost aide of the President.  Kyari’s Demise A Monumental Loss – Lalong The chairman Northern Governors Forum and Plateau State governor Simon Lalong, has expressed deep shock over the death of Kyari. Governor Lalong, in a condolence message, issued in Jos by the director of press, Simon Makut Macham, sympathised with the immediate family of the deceased, President Muhammadu Buhari and the entire nation for what he described as a monumental loss. Lalong said, “Mallam Abba Kyari was a deeply resourceful person who provided tremendous support to President Buhari and his Administration, and served Nigeria with patriotism, dignity, honesty and passion”. Governor Lalong recalled the friendship and support which the late chief of staff had always extended to members of the Forum and Plateau  State, describing him as a man who had zeal for peace and progress of Nigeria. He also prayed God to grant the soul of the deceased eternal rest and give the family the fortitude to bear the loss.  Nigeria Has Lost A Worthy Son – Kogi Gov Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello commiserated with President Buhari, saying his chief of staff, Mallam Abba Kyari, was a worthy son of Nigeria. Bello in his condolence letter to the president also sympathised with the presidency and the people of Borno State over the sad loss. He said, “On behalf of my family,  the Government and the good people of Kogi State, I commiserate with Your Excellency, the entire presidency and the people of Borno State over the loss. Please, accept my deepest condolences on your bereavement. “Mallam Kyari lived a good life of honesty, commitment  to nation building and  service to God and humanity. “He undoubtedly had been a pillar of support to you in your enviable and exemplary journey since your assumption of office in 2015 as President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “His wise counsel to you in the course of your selfless service to the people of Nigeria will not be forgotten easily. “While I pray the Almighty Allah to give you the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss and grant late Kyari eternal rest, please accept once again my heartfelt condolences”.  It’s A Painful Loss – Sanwo-Olu On his part, Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, condoled with President Muhammadu Buhari on the death the late Kyari, saying it was shocking, painful and a monumental loss to the nation Sanwo-Olu, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile described the death of Mallam Abba Kyari as shocking, painful and a monumental loss to the nation, the people and government of Maiduguri and the Kyari family. The governor said, ‘‘I received the sad news of the death of Mallam Abba Kyari, an astute public servant with a heavy heart. Mallam Kyari was a dedicated Nigerian, a deeply committed and patriotic citizen, who contributed remarkably to the smooth and successful running of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.’’  Bauchi Gov Describes Kyari’s Death As Shocking Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, expressed sadness over the demise of the late Abba Kyari, describing as “shocking” the death of the late chief of staff A statement by his special assistant on new media, Lawal Mua’zu Bauchi, noted: “The Executive Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has received with shock the death of Malam Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari.  Ganduje Condoles Buhari, Family, FG Kano state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, condoled with President Buhari, federal government, Nigerians and the family of the late Kyari. He prayed for Allah’s Forgiveness and blessing for the departed soul of Kyari, describing him as highly reserved and loyal Chief of Staff to the President. “On behalf of the government and good people of Kano state, I am commiserating with the President and Commander-In-Chier of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, the federal government, his families and the entire Nigerians over the death of Malam Abba Kyari,” he said.  Borno Gov Mobilizes Imams, Ngala IDPs For Prayers Governor of Borno, the late Kyari’s home state, Babagana Umara Zulum, yesterday mobilized internally displaced persons at different camps in Ngala local government to offer prayers to God for the repose of the late Abba Kyari. Zulum said he received the sad news at Gamboru, a border town in Ngala, where he passed the night, while on humanitarian visit to supervise distribution of food, cash and textiles to about 50 thousand internally displaced persons in different camps. On Zulum’s request, chief Imam of Ngala town, Goni Awari Goni Kadiri led a gathering of other imams and displaced persons to offer prayers of forgiveness and eternal peace in favour of the deceased, malam Isa Gusau, spokesman to the Governor, said in a statement. Ngala town is headquarters of Ngala local government area.  Nigeria Has Lost A Fine Gentleman – Gov Yahaya The governor of Gombe  State, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, expressed grief over the demise of the chief of staff to the president. Reacting to the news of Kyari’s death, Yahaya lamented that Nigeria has indeed lost a fine and dedicated gentleman, a patriot and a reliable administrator who was always mindful of his duties and responsibilities. In a statement by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Ismaila Uba Misili, the governor said the president’s late chief of staff would be remembered for his exemplary leadership, effectiveness in service, dedication and loyalty while carrying out the duties and responsibilities of his office.  Kyari Was An Astute Administrator- Gov Buni Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State described the late chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, as an astute administrator and a great patriot who dedicated his life to the service of the nation. The governor on behalf of the government and people of the state, commiserated with President Muhammadu Buhari over the loss.  Kyari’s Death A National Tragedy- Gov Abiodun Ogun State governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, as well as the state chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), described the demise of the late chief of staff to the president as a national tragedy. The governor said this while commiserating with President Muhammadu Buhari, over the death of his former chief of staff. Also, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, said that it was sad that the former chief of staff still lost the battle against COVID-19, adding that he was a man who was committed to the service of his fatherland. In a letter of condolence addressed to President Buhari, and personally signed by him, the former president noted that Kyari’s death would no doubt, be painful to him, family and other friends, but urged the president to take solace in the fact that his former chief of staff died in service to Nigeria.  Kyari Was A Seasoned Administrator,  Legal Icon – Bello The chairman, North-Central Governor’s Forum and governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, eulogised the late chief of staff to President Buhari, saying he was a seasoned administrator and legal icon. In a statement issued by his chief press secretary, Mrs Mary Noel Berje, the governor said he received with shock, the death of the former chief of staff and commiserates with the presidency, family, friends and the people of Nigeria over the great loss.  Kyari Was A Strong Pillar- Farouq The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouq, described the late chief of staff to President Buhari as a strong pillar leading the staff who work closely with the president. The minister said Kyari contributed in coordinating the activities of the various ministries and agencies for the efficient administration of the country. Expressing her condolences to President Buhari and the family of the late Abba Kyari, the minister said she was shocked and saddened by the death of the chief with whom she worked closely even prior to her appointment as minister.  Kyari Was Experienced Administrator – Tambuwal Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has described Abbah Kyari, the late chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, as an accomplished administrator that would be missed greatly. Tambuwal in a condolence message he personally signed and sent to Leadership Sunday, urged the immediate family and his boss, President Muhammadu Buhari, to take solace in the fact that from Allah “do we all come and to Him is our return.”  Kyari’s Demise, A Great Loss To Nigeria -Masari Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State condoled with President Muhammadu Buhari over the demise of his chief of staff, the late Abba Kyari. The governor said Kyari’s demise was a great loss to the nation. A press statement signed by the director-general on media to the governor, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi, and made available to Leadership Sunday yesterday,  described Kyari as a man whose lifetime was devoted to service to the fatherland.  Gov Sule Condoles With PMB Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, yesterday condoled with President Buhari and the family of the late chief of staff to the president, Malam Abba Kyari, who passed away on Friday. A statement signed by the director-general, Strategic Communication and Press Affairs to the governor, Yakubu Lamai, prayed for the departed soul of Kyari.  Gov Ayade Mourns Abba Kyari Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade, yesterday expressed profound shock and sadness over the death of President Muhammadu Buhari’s chief of staff, Mallam Abba Kyari. The governor said he was utterly depressed by the sad news. In a statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Mr. Christian Ita, Governor Ayade described Kyari’s departure as a great loss to the nation.  Gov Fintiri Commiserates With PMB Adamawa State governor, Ahmadu  Fintiri, commiserated with President Muhammadu Buhari, and the family of late the chief of staff to the president. Fintiri in a statement by his press secretary, Mr Humwashi Wonosikou, said it was with great sadness he received the shocking news.  Jonathan Mourns Abba Kyari Former President Goodluck Jonathan also consoled President Muhammadu Buhari, the Kyari family, and the government and people of Borno State on the demise of the lateAbba Kyari. Jonathan who posted on his verified Facebook page, said Kyari served his country to the best of his abilities as a lawyer, journalist and an astute administrator. “May Allah grant him Al Jannah Firdaus and strengthen his family and friends during this period of grief,” the former president said.  Atiku Consoles Buhari Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar consoled President Buhari over the death of his chief of staff, describing the deceased as a loyal aide. Reacting to the death in a statement in Abuja on Saturday, the former Vice President said, “I have received the death of your Chief of Staff with profound grief and sorrow, and I convey to you my deepest and heartfelt sympathies at this sombre moment.” According to Atiku, death is inevitable and every living being will ultimately experience this terminal stage of life.  Kwara Gov mourns Abba Kyari, condoles with President, family Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Saturday described the death of the Chief of Staff to the President Abba Kyari as a huge loss to the country. “The death of the Chief of Staff is a huge loss. We mourn Mallam Abba. He will be sorely missed. On behalf of the government and people of Kwara State, we commiserate with Mr President, the Federal Executive Council, and the immediate and extended family of Mallam Abba. We pray Almighty Allah to grant him Al-jannah firdaus,” AbdulRazaq said in a statement by his media spokesman Rafiu Ajakaye. “We salute his contributions to the country, his avowed loyalty to the nation and the President, as well as his commitment to duty as a prominent member of Mr President’s administration. This development reminds us once again to unite at this trying time to collectively work towards containing the rampaging threat to all of humanity by adhering to all safety measures.”  Kyari Was  Paragon Of Virtue – Malami The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami has described the late chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, as a paragon of virtue. In a statement he personally signed, the attorney general said Kyari was also a patriotic citizen who rendered selfless service to Nigeria.  Kyari Served Meritoriously- Tukur The former national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Dr Bamanga Tukur, yesterday mourned the death of the chief of staff to  the President Buhari, saying he was a fine gentleman who served the country meritoriously. Tukur in a statement he personally signed, said Kyari ensured the smooth running of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government.  Kyari Sacrificed Life In Service To Motherland- CAN The leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) said that the late chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari, sacrificed his life in the course of service to the country. A letter of condolence to the President Muhammadu Buhari, dated April,18 2020, and personally signed by the president of the association, Rev Samson Ayokunle, and made available to LEADERSHIP Sunday in Abuja, noted with sadness that the late Kyari contracted the pandemic abroad while on official duty.  Kyari Was Unshakeable, Formidable Force Behind Buhari- ACF The apex northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), described the late chief of staff Abba Kyari,  as a formidable and unshakeable force behind the Buhari presidency. The forum in a condolence statement issued by the national publicity secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, said the forum received the news of the death of Kyari with shock and disbelief. He said the forum had all along since he took ill hoped and prayed that he would survive the coronavirus which he contracted some weeks ago while on an official trip abroad.  APC Govs Mourn  Kyari, Call For Concerted Efforts Against COVID-19 – The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) expressed shock over the death of the chief of staff to President Buhari. The governors also called on all Nigerians to observe all the social distancing measures and stay safe, while also commending all the frontline medical personnel under the leadership of the Federal Ministry of Health and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).  Former Minister Of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode Mourns Abba Kyari The former minister of Aviation said regarding the late Chief of staff, “I have lost a friend of 40 years. We were at Cambridge together. We worked in my fathers law firm together. “We remained close throughout right up until the end even though we disagreed politically. Abba was a good man: a man of honor and a loyal friend. May his soul Rest In Peace,” he said. 