TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes on tips to keep you healthy during these unprecedented times in the world history Being sedentary not only has a detrimental effect on physical health but also affects mental health. When you are physically active and exercise regularly you, in turn, boost your immune system. A healthy immune system can react quickly. In fact, many won’t even know that they’ve been infected with the virus as it is seen in some coronavirus patients who remain asymptomatic till they get well. Experts assert that two things have to happen for you to get sick, first, you must be exposed and secondly, you have to be susceptible. However, working out regularly and being physically active can help lower stress and blood pressure, reduce the risk of stroke, and prevent the onset of diabetes. A medical practitioner with Rehoboth hospital, Dr Adetunji Michael, stressed the need to staying fit, healthy and happier amid the lockdown as it is one of the very best ways to get through these testing times. He noted that staying healthy makes you feel better, happy and positive. He said it is no surprise that one of the most popular searches on the internet right now is for ways to reduce weight, stay healthy and prevent yourself from getting coronavirus as people tend to gain more weight amid the lockdown due to lack of physical activity. The medical expert asserts that exercise has been shown to improve your mood and decrease feelings of depression, anxiety, stress and can make you feel happier. ‘’It doesn’t matter how intense your workout is, exercise improves your mood and has been shown to reduce symptoms in people suffering from anxiety. It can also help them be more aware of their mental state and practise distraction from their fears. ‘’If you’re having trouble sleeping at night, try cardiovascular exercise during your waking hours, a regular exercise programme combined with sleep hygiene education is an effective treatment for insomnia,’’ he said. He also advised Nigerians to stay to ensure physical distancing and good hygiene. According to him, ‘’Wash your hands for 20 seconds with soap and water. Wash your hands as soon as you come indoors. Do not touch your face with unwashed hands. ‘’Sneeze or cough into tissues and dispose of them immediately and then wash your hands. Observe physical distancing and self-isolation advice.’’ The Association of Psychiatrists in Nigeria has issued coping strategies to help Nigerians remain good “emotional and physical health” as they cope with the Covid-19 pandemic and attendant lockdown. The strategies are contained in a position paper the association issued this week on the Covid-19 pandemic. The association noted that it is normal to be afraid of a threat to our lives, but too much fear can harm our health and confuse our thinking. It will be difficult to make rational decisions when we panic. According to the association, ‘’Talk about your worries: Remember that this is a difficult time for everyone and sharing how you are feeling and the things you are doing to cope with such worries with family and friends can help them too. Please remain calm and control your anxiety. ‘’Some of the circumstances are outside our control but we have to deal with it in a calm and rational manner, remember that prolonged stress is not good for our immunity. Be responsible; observe preventive instructions such as staying at home for you and others to stay alive, washing your hands with soap and water frequently, use hand alcohol-based hand sanitizers, and maintaining physical distance from people. Look after your physical wellbeing; try to eat healthy, well-balanced meals, drink enough water, exercise inside where possible and outside once a day while abiding by social distancing.’’ Meanwhile, the director general, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, noted that to curb the spread of the pandemic the nation has to depend on non-pharmaceutical interventions such as the closure of large gatherings and cessation of movements. According to him, “In the absence of a vaccine for this disease, we have to depend on non-pharmaceutical interventions such as the closure of large gatherings and cessation of movements.” Ihekweazu averred that there was a strong chance that if these interventions were properly implemented and adhered to, “we can flatten the curve and control this outbreak. By limiting movements, we are reducing the possibility of spread of the virus causing COVID-19, which is highly transmissible.” On his part, the minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, urged the public to maintain a social distance of at least five feet between them and others. He said preventive measures such as social distancing has proven to be highly effective in curbing the spread of the disease in other parts of the world. A fitness coach at Koroduma All-Stars, Emmanuel Oke, stressed that a healthy immune system can react quickly. In fact, many won’t even know that they’ve been infected with the virus. He shared some tips to stay healthy by boosting your immune system when staying home during this lockdown which includes: Working out He said while working out in the open is not an option now, there are a lot of home workouts that can keep our physical and mental health in optimum condition. ‘’If you are already familiar with using a treadmill or a cycle at home, you can continue exercising for 30 minutes per day. You can also do moderate movement exercises, breaking it 10 minutes in the morning, afternoon, and in the evening, as recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO). ‘’Taking a dig on the word ‘quarantine’ he also motivated his fans to not just sit around, but also workout. While we are socially isolating ourselves during the pandemic, many fitness experts – ranging from the fields of Yoga, Pilates, personal trainers, Zumba trainers – all have started their online classes (some of them for free), which can be availed during this period. All one needs to have a yoga mat or a towel on the floor and a strong internet connection. ‘’You can also walk up and down the staircase in your home or building (if you have one), jog in one place, do jumping jacks, sit-ups, and push-ups at home. You can also take out your skipping rope and start skipping in an open area in your home,’’ he said. Alternatively, he said while practising social distancing going for a walk around the neighbourhood is encouraged. Eating healthy He said people tend to eat more because of being idle, hence, it is important to continue to make healthy food choices. ‘’Leave food that you bought for emergencies for an emergency. Don’t use those foods as comfort during these times. If you’re having trouble finding fresh, organic produce, substituting with frozen is encouraged. Remember, frozen produce was allowed to ripen on the vine longer so may actually be more nutrient-dense than fresh, unless it’s locally grown and in season. ‘’A healthy diet can help in reducing the chances of cardiovascular ailments, diabetes, obesity, as well as depression and anxiety. As long as we keep the processed foods that are high in sugar at arm’s length and follow a diet that comprises complex carbohydrates that are found in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains, we will be on the road to good health. ‘’Foods that are rich in vitamins and minerals like iron, zinc, and selenium helps in releasing the ‘happiness’ chemicals in the brain such as serotonin and dopamine. A lot of green, leafy vegetables, as well as poultry products, help in providing Vitamin B which helps combat depression. Yogurt can also help in keeping our gut healthy,’’ he said. Sleep soundly He urged Nigerians during the lockdown period to maintain a healthy sleep schedule, seven to nine hours. ‘’Don’t sit around and worry about what you cannot control. So, maintaining a proper sleep cycle should be a top priority during this period. A good night of sleep will help our bodies repair its cells, clear toxins, consolidate our memories, and process information. Sleep deprivation can have major health impacts such as negatively affecting our psychological health and emotional intelligence. For most people, six to nine hours of sleep per night is enough. Studies suggest that doing meditation before sleeping helps in collecting all the information and calming the brain, before going to bed. There are various apps available on the Google Play Store and iOS App Store that can help in carrying out a short period of meditation. ‘’During the lockdown, remember to maintain a proper sleep pattern and wake up at a proper time. This will help in maintaining a normal routine throughout the day. Further, limiting the electronic screen time before going to sleep can also help,’’ he said. Social distancing, virtual connection He noted that though ‘’we cannot meet our friends and family freely now social media has helped us stay connected with each other. ‘’We can still keep in touch with our friends and families over voice calls, video calls, messengers, and social media platforms.’’