Three additional coronavirus cases have been recorded in Bauchi state, bringing the number to 11, persons in the state that have tested positive since the outbreak stated in the state. LEADERSHIP reports that three other people have tested positive for the virus. However, five persons have since tested negative and have been discharged, narrowing the number of active cases to six including the earlier three who have been undergoing treatment in the state. Our correspondent reports that the 3 new cases were reported on Friday from the Situation Room located at the emergency operation center house at the State’s Ministry of Health. The Information Officer, Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency (BASPHCDA), Ibrahim Sani, confirmed the new cases, saying that the result was received from the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) Abuja . “It is true that Bauchi has three new confirmed cases. The Executive Chairman of the Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Rilwanu Mohammed, received the result from the NCDC last night”, he said. Adding that; “as you know, so far, five patients have recovered and have been discharged. With this new development, there are now six active cases in the state, with no death.” The information officer confirmed that one of the positive cases is a staff of the WHO, a contact of the first case, including a woman and another man who both returned to the state from Lagos. According to him, “the woman is from Giade local government area of the state while the other person is a resident of Bauchi metropolis”. He said that the two other suspected cases that were recorded in the state had been isolated in one of the Isolation Centers in the state.
“Last night we were called by a family at Prison Quarters here in Bauchi that one of their loved ones just returned from Lagos yesterday (Thursday) and was exhibiting some symptoms”, the IO said. “The surveillance team (of the Task Force on COVID-19 and Lassa Fever in the state) rushed there with an ambulance and picked him to the Bayara isolation centre”, he explained. “The second suspected case was at Nasarawa area of the state he too just returned from a journey but I don’t know if he came back from Lagos or if it is from a different place. I must tell you that these two cases are yet to be confirmed but they have been isolated and we are waiting for confirmation to know their status”, he further said. The development is coming hours after the state Governor, Bala Mohammed announced in a state wide broadcast, the lockdown of the state to check the spread of the virus.