The heir to British throne, Prince Charles Philip has described the death of former chief of staff (CoS)to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, as “a desperately sad news,” for which he sent his “deepest possible sympathy” to President Muhammadu Buhari and the government and people of Nigeria. Prince Charles’ condolence message was contained in a statement made public yesterday by the senior special assistant on media to the president, Mallam Garba Shehu. He regretted that the death of Kyari had occurred through this “pernicious virus…I can only begin to imagine what an immense gap Mr. Kyari’s untimely death will leave in Your Excellency’s life and my heart goes to you and Mr. Kyari’s family.” In a similar message through the Embassy of Rwanda in Abuja, President Paul Kagame, the government and people of Rwanda extended their heart-felt condolences and used the opportunity “to express solidarity with the government and people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as we are faced with the COVID-19 global crisis.” On his part, former Vice President Namadi Sambo, described the death of Kyari as a “monumental national loss.” Industry leader and businessman, Abdulsamad Rabi’u, in his letter to the president said that he was deeply saddened by what he described as “this colossal loss.” He said Kyari “served the country and your administration with diligence and utmost loyalty. He was deeply committed to the service of Nigeria and his efforts especially in ensuring the success of Your Excellency’s agriculture industry agenda did not go unnoticed. He was a beacon of loyalty and a patriot.” Other messages received by President Buhari included those from the Emir of Gazargamu, Ahmad Tijjani Ibn Saleh from Yobe State; the Secretariat of the Developing D-8 Organisation for Economic Cooperation headquarters in Ankara, Turkey; retired Ambassador Jibrin Chinade; Alhaji Adamu Abubakar Maje, the Emir of Hadejia, Jigawa State. Former minister of Labour and Productivity, Dr Emeka Nwogu and a former managing director of the Guardian Newspapers Ltd, Mr. Eluem Emeka Izeze, also sent condolence messages to the president.