A medical practitioner, Dr Chidi Ezeihu, has appealed to the federal government and the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to carry out a clinical trial of his therapy on COVID-19 infection. Eze, who is from University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) and an expert in alternative medicine, said that he strongly believed that his formula known as “Salvage A and B” which he had used to treat patients of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) might have the capacity to kill SARS COV 2 which, he claimed, was the organism responsible for COVID-19 disease. He disclosed that he came up with Salvage A and B which he described as vital drugs following the crisis that was occassioned by HIV and AIDs then. The medical practioner, who has been into research in alternative medicine for a long time, said our environment is blessed with herbs that have efficacy, pointing that “we should not always be praying that solution to the COVID 19 virus must come from Western countries.” He noted that they came up with  Salvage A and B when there was a very big vacuum in antiretroviral drugs adding that though there were alot of HIV patients in 1999 but nothing was done for them. Going down memory lane, the medical practioner  stated the late Professor Onuaguluchi was in UNTH then doing what he described as Biomagnetism which he was using to help the HIV patients. He disclosed that shortly after they came up with Salvage A and B, he sent samples to Professor Onuaguluchi, who happened to be his professor of Phamarcology, stating that within a period of two years, the late Professor came out to say that he was happy that in his lifetime,he has seen something that can be a definitive solution to HIV.  “We are making a strong appeal to the Nigerian government especially the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, there is a  need now, everybody is looking for a solution and we are saying in Nigeria, since Salvage A and B has benefit on HIV , it has some efficacy and safety, that product should be tried on SARS COV 2.  “Salvage A&B works by reactivating cellular immunity by awakening the macrophages. The difference between Salvage A&B combination phytodrugs for HIV and antiretroviral therapies for HIV is that SALVAGE A&B optimizes macrophages functions. When macrophages are stimulated with the right therapeutics agents like SalvageA&B, macrophages then begins their jobs properly; antigen recognition, antigen processing and proper antigen presentations. In HIV infection macrophages are dysfunctional.  “Even while treating HIV with the current antiretroviral, these macrophages are still dysfunctional. When we treat HIV with Salvage A&B, macrophages are so stimulated to the extent that proper antigen recognition, antigen processing and presentation for the immune system to begin to produce immune competent lymphocytes to destroy HIV in the body”, he stated.  Also speaking, Engr. Dr. Mohammed Jibrin, the  Director General and Chief Executive Officer of National Board for Technology Incubation, said what they do at the technology incubation centers across the country is to nuture start ups ,help them get certification as well as assist them get to the market.  Jibrin, who spoke through Mrs. Thelma Ifeoma Nwabueze (Centre Manager)  Technology Incubation Centre further disclosed that they also  monitor the activities of both their resident and nonresident enterpreneurs to ensure that they don’t go against the rules.  He pointed that their major mandate is commercialization of research and development results.