The Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU), has donated over 100 cartons of hand sanitizers and other Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), to the Federal Government as part of its effort to support the fight against COVID-19.  President of the Union, Comrade Bio-Joy Josiah, in company of other executive members, made the donation to the Minister of Health, Prof. Osagie Ehanire at his office over the weekend in Abuja.  Comrade Josiah said JOHESU took the decision to make the donations as part of efforts to help protect thousands of their members who are in the frontline battling the virus from spreading.  He said contrary to divergent opinions on the outbreak of Covid-19, has exposed the several ills associated with health sector in the country, such as poor hazard allowance for health workers and poor heath facilities which the Union has been campaigning against .  According to him, the COVID-19 experience should spur the federal government to take action and address the challenges with the health sector.  While urging the Ministry of Health to see insurance cover for health workers as top priority, Comrade Josiah said healthcare providers are now the contemporary armies who are expected to help in salvaging the country from the pandemic that Coronavirus has occasioned.  He said, “JOHESU just presented hand sanitizers to the Federal Ministry of Health, 100 cartons of 500ml hand sanitizers, summing to about 1200 pieces, we also presented 100ml hand sanitizers, which we feel is for individual protection, so that when sent to the isolation centres, health workers they will have at least one in its kitty, so as to regularly sanitize and protect themselves.  “Statements are being made and ideas are being muted on insurance package for health workers, we are hoping and praying that these ideas will become truthful because everybody has known the importance of health care providers.  “There are two kinds of armies, one is the army with the legal weapon and the other is the unarmed army, the second which is the unarmed force that defends the nation in times like this is the healthcare workers or providers,if you cast your mind back, for many years we have been canvassing on the need for improvement and motivation in the health sector, we hope that Covid-19 would make all that we have been clamoring for become clearer and the government respond appropriately”.  Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire said all contributions towards curbing Covid-19 in the country is valuable, especially now that the virus remains a mystery and has almost crippled the big nations of the world.  He said the donations by JOHESU would go a long way in helping to contain the spread of the virus, especially for the health workers who are currently on the frontline of duty across the country.  Ehanire said, “We thank JOHESU for these presentations to us for use in the battle against Coronavirus, you all know that this is an illness that has taken the whole world in its grip and its affecting even the most powerful countries of the world, prompting us to ask ourselves how do we face this thing that has almost brought these powerful countries to their kneels, one way is that we all bound ourselves together.” 