As part of efforts to cushion effects of lockdown imposed by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the state, Lagos State government in conjunction with Rendeavour, Africa’s largest private city developer at the weekend commenced free food programme that will provide food for 110,000 people daily. LEADERSHIP checks showed that the food palliative vendors contracted in different parts of the state have started giving 100, 000 youths free food at ward levels from the food kitchen between the hours of 11am and 1pm and this is complemented by Rendeavour that is providing free food for additional 10, 000 residents daily. The founder and Group Chief Executive Officer of Rendeavour, Stephen Jennings said the company’s gesture would complement Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s Daily Food Kitchen Programme. Jennings lauded Governor Sanwo-Olu for his leadership and efforts at tackling the spread of the virus in the state and promised that the organisation will continue to support the government. He said: “Governor Sanwo-Olu has led commendably from the front in the battle against COVID-19 in Lagos, to the admiration of all, including the international community.” According to him, other initiatives by Rendeavour and Alaro City targeted at cushioning the effect of the lockdown include the distribution of relief items which commenced in Epe two weeks ago. “The company is also rolling out a civic education campaign aimed at boosting awareness of effective ways of combating the pandemic. Additionally, top executives of the organisation have partnered with the Lagos branch of a global business leadership community in funding the construction of a COVID-19 treatment/isolation centre in Lagos. Commenting on the development, the chairman of Lagos Island East Local Council Development Area, Comrade Kamal Salau -Bashua lauded the initiative, saying that  it should be applauded. Salau- Bashua noted that the gesture would go a long way to ameliorate the plights of the residents burdened by the effects of the lockdown imposed by the government to contain spread of COVID -19. He said, ‘’Well we want to actually appreciate Rendeavour for partnering with the state government in terms of distributing relief packages, food packages to the people of this council . On behalf of the people of this council we thank Rendeavour.’’  