The Federal Government has taken delivery of the second batch of medical supplies and personnel from China in the vigorous fight against the dreaded Coronavirus pandemic. Nigeria’s domestic carrier, Air Peace delivered the supplies on Wednesday after a historical non-stop flight to Chinese capital, Beijing. The flight was operated by the airline’s Boeing B777-200 ER (P4 5-NBVE) in a non-stop 14 hours service, which landed in Beijing, China at 14:18 pm local time on Tuesday and arrived the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport yesterday after 15 hours non-stop flight, touching down at the airport at 4:25 pm local time. The Federal Government on April 5 took delivery of the first batch of medical supplies from Istanbul, Turkey, airlifted by Nigeria’s carrier Air Peace Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Air Peace, Allen Onyema described the flight as historical and commended the Federal Government for its commitment to protecting Nigerian citizens from the dreaded pandemic that is ravaging the world. Onyema also thanked the Federal Government for choosing an indigenous carrier to airlift the medical supplies from Turkey and China, observing that this is a huge encouragement to local airline operators and promotion of indigenous businesses, which create jobs for the teeming Nigerian youths. “Another history was made Wednesday, April 7, 2020 as Air Peace Boeing 777-200ER (P4 5-NBVE) landed in Beijing, China, 14:18pm, for the airlift of the federal government of Nigeria’s medical supplies for the fight against COVID-19. ”This is the first time a Nigerian airline would be doing a direct nonstop 14 hours flight to China. The aircraft operated another non-stop 15 hours fight to the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. All six-man crew are Nigerians. May God Almighty be praised for everything. We are all one under one God. Congratulations Nigeria,” Onyema said. Among the materials brought in by the Air Peace flight include 16-tons of test kits, ventilators, disinfectant machines, disposable medical masks; medicines, rubber gloves, protective gowns, goggles, face shields, infra-red thermometers and other critical care items.