The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is leading key operators in the oil and gas sector to build medical infrastructure in 14 locations across states in the country’s six geo-political zones. The projects will be funded from the N21 billion which the NNPC and its partners in the industry raised to combat the coronavirus pandemic. NNPC’s group managing director (GMD), Mallam Mele Kyari, dropped hint of the corporation and its partners in the oil and gas industry to build permanent and sustainable medical infrastructure in locations across states in the country’s geo-political zones. Kyari stated this in Kano at the weekend while presenting medical consumables, equipment and an ambulance to the Kano State government. The items are part of the NNPC-led Oil and Gas Industry Coalition Intervention Programme to support the government in alleviating the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. He expressed the commitment of the sector’s operators to intervene in all states of the federation despite the supply chain constraints involved in simultaneous nationwide delivery and distribution of medical items at this period. In a statement issued by NNPC group general manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr. Kennie Obateru, he quoted Kyari as saying that „we are selecting 14 locations to construct the permanent infrastructure” adding that “as a socially responsible corporate citizens, the oil and gas industry operators are focused on bequeathing some of the finest medical infrastructure that will outlive the COVID-19 pandemic.“ Obateru, in the statement released in Abuja yesterday, said that the industry’s operators team led the minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, handed the items donated over to the Kano State governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, on behalf of the NNPC and its partners – Chevron Nigeria Limited (Upstream) and Bovas & Company Limited (Downstream). The items donated to the state included a Toyota ambulance, two full kits ventilators, one smith RescuePac ventilator for emergency and transport, 10 pulse oximeters, 10,000 nose masks and 5,000 Nitrile examination gloves. Others were 250 face masks, surgical splash/fluid resistance face shield, 250 N95 respiratory valves, 100 PPE overall full kits, 100 PPE shoe covers, 2,000 PPE disposable caps and 500 Medimec surgical face masks. At the presentation ceremony, Sylva stated that the items were part of the $58million (N21billion) intervention initiative by the oil and gas Industry, expressing the hope that they would help to stemming the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. The minister explained that the initiative covered three areas: provision of medical consumables, deployment of logistics and in-patient support system and delivery of medical infrastructure. Sylva said that the donations were outside the regular Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives routinely deployed by NNPC and the participating companies. He said that all commitments under the scheme were collected in kind through a clear, well-established and transparent governance framework, adding that “I commend NNPC, the donor companies and other participants in this initiative for standing up to be counted at these trying times.” In his response, Governor Ganduje lauded the Initiative to combat COVID-19, saying that the intervention would help in fighting the pandemic as well as complement the state government’s efforts. The governor stated that Kano has three functional isolation centres and had commenced the distribution of palliatives to 50,000 households in the state. Other members of team against the COVID-19 pandemic are International Oil Companies (IOCs), indigenous petroleum producers, major oil marketers, crude oil and products traders, depot owners and petroleum products marketers. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, Rivers and states in the South West have benefitted from the NNPC-led coalition intervention initiative. Meanwhile, the NNPC has said that it would build a new infectious diseases hospital in Borno State as part of its support for the state’s public health system. This was announced at the weekend in Maiduguri, when Governor Babagana Umara Zulum received Sylva and Kyari at the Government House In Maiduguri The minister and GMD were in the state to support the state in the ongoing fight against Covid-19. Kyari informed gZulum that NNPC would not only build an infectious diseases hospital, but was donate some medical equipment and consumables critical to healthcare management. Sylva explained that earlier in March this year, President Muhammadu Buhari had set up a Presidential Task Force On COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant impact on critical sectors of the nation‘s economy, headed by the secretary to government of federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha. He said: „It was in response to the president’s initiative that actors in the petroleum industry embarked upon making interventions on three areas: provision of medical consumables, deployment of logistics, and in-patient support system and delivery of medical infrastructure.“ While expressing appreciation to the minister and the NNPC GMD, Governor Zulum described the intervention as timely, especially given the number of internally displaced persons in the state with increasing need for medical attention. „The establishment of this infrastructure will add value to the already existing facilities we have. On behalf of the government and people of Borno State, we remain eternally grateful for all the support,” Zulum said.