ANGELA NKWO-AKPOLU captures the unfolding intrigues in Imo State bordering on politics of inclusion and exclusion, as Governor Hope Uzodinma constitutes his cabinet. For members and supporters of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Imo State, it is a two-sided coin, one facing upwards while the other downwards and ignored. That appears the current state of loyalists to former governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha as well as a former two term senator, Ifeanyi Araraume popularly called the game changer. Since assumption of office on January 24, 2020, Governor Hope Uzodinma had announced several appointments which are well over 100, all for his followers since his foray into politics. He also announced directors of administration and general services (DAGs) for the 27 local government areas as managers of the councils until the state’s House of Assembly directed that no civil servants should be appointed to man the positions. Elected local government chairmen under Okorocha had broken out in joy when the State Assembly directed appointments of ** new ** persons immediately. The erstwhile council chairmen broke out in celebration when former governor, Rt Hon Emeka Ihedioha was sacked and even boasted that Uzodinma had promised to return them to their positions. After the waiting game of who makes the list of appointees, Uzodinma sworn into office, the Interim Management Committee chairmen of the 27 local government areas, all of whom never worked with Okorocha. Truth be told, a huge point working for Uzodinma is his decision to reach out to long serving loyalists, almost everyone on his team has always been known to be his follower. The commissioners already sworn into office also never had a stint with Okorocha or Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, an act many have termed to mean show of total control by Uzodinma. The same applies to the long list of special advisers and senior special assistants none is from the Okorocha political family, thus putting paid any plans by the erstwhile governor’s followers to get appointments. Factional publicity secretary of the APC in Imo, Onwuasonya Jones, in his reaction said the governor chose to reward longtime loyalists and maintained that it was correct, politically and morally. He said, “He has looked the way of men and women who stood with him, even when it didn’t seem anything would look good for him, politically. Some people may think he could have done otherwise, or at least, looked beyond that consideration, and appointed party members from across different blocs, including new entrants and pioneer members of the party, at least to encourage better cohesion and strengthening of the party. But, no one would also deny that appointments and who gets them are the governor’s undeniable prerogatives.” Jones further disclosed that the party had expected Governor Uzodinma to restore the ousted elected chairmen even as he implored the affected persons to explore internal mechanisms to address the burning issue. “On the dissolution of elected LGA executives, the party expected the governor to toe the path of constitutionality by restoring the elected officials, but he must have been advised otherwise and as a party, we encourage all parties in the matter to explore internal Party mechanisms towards resolving the logjam.” According to him, Okorocha will not play an overbearing role but rather prefer the new governor enjoys freedom to deliver his promise to Imo people. “I do not think His Excellency Owelle Rochas Okorocha was particularly interested in imposing anyone on the governor as appointees. He prefers that the current governor gets a free hand to select a team he trusts, in order to deliver on his promises to the people of the state. As one of the critical leaders of the APC, Owelle is more concerned about the party’s survival and he knows that the governor’s success will go a long way in strengthening the party and I know that his earnest wish is that the Uzodinma succeeds,” Jones stated. During the swearing in of Uzodinma on January 24, Okorocha was part of the entourage, a move his loyalists took to mean that they would receive acceptance and placements. Though many political watchers had predicted that the sudden political marriage involving Uzodinma, Okorocha, Araraume would soon crash because of who controls APC in Imo State, but many doubted. During the campaign before the 2019 general election, Okorocha had in no small measure derided Uzodinma in favour of his preferred candidate, Chief Uche Nwosu who had served as his Chief of Staff. Okorocha called Uzodinma all sorts of unprintable names just to deride the two-term Imo west (Orlu zone) Senator, while his loyalists spurred him on. Rather than campaign, Okorocha chose to speak about Uzodinma’s health, family, personal interests, thus the former governor built political animosity between them. Uzodinma himself was also not entirely blameless as he always addressed Okorocha’s preferred candidate, Nwosu simply by his marital affiliation to the erstwhile governor. Until recently, loyalists of Okorocha had taken up several pages of adverts to congratulate Uzodinma and pledged all manner of loyalty, but all that appears not to interest the governor. Some political watchers term Uzodinma’s silence on Okorocha as a signpost of what will play out during the ward congresses of the APC in Imo State soon. It is a subtle way of telling them, he is the governor and in control of everything concerning the party in the state, just like they did since the inception of the party before now. Meanwhile, some are still hopeful that they may get appointments into the yet to be reconstituted boards, but no one knows when that will come, if ever. For now, one thing is obvious, the working APC structure in Imo State is that controlled by Uzodinma, and he prefers to use old standing loyalists and not political gatecrashers.