While the world shut down its borders to contain the spread of Covid -19, Nigeria was however brave enough to keep its seaports open, ERNEST NZOR writes. While the world was struggling to contain the spread of the virus and consequently shutting down their ports, Nigeria took the bold decision to keep its seaports open for business. This is because the government knew the importance of the seaport to its economy as an import dependent country. At a sensitisation programme for terminal operators, shipping companies and Dockworkers at the Lagos ports complex, Apapa last month, Bala-Usman announced that the NPA has evolved measures that will keep the ports safe and running in the face of the threat of COVID-19. She revealed that the NPA has placed vessels coming into the country from Asia on red alert, due to the high rate of infection from the region. As a further measure, she said the NPA has agreed with shipping companies to divert vessels whose crew members are showing symptoms of the virus from Mauritius, which is regarded as the gateway to Africa. She said personnel from the Port Health are fully on ground to avoid the spread of the virus through the ports. She equally stressed the need for the support of all stakeholders to forestall the spread of the virus at the nation’s seaports. The NPA boss said the authority has commenced plan to set up isolation centres at the ports. She stated, “We are aware that the virus is spreading round the world in a very rapid form and of course there is need for us to curtail it, and we have been informed that there is no cure to this disease and the best thing for us to do, is to have a precautionary preventive measure to ensure that it does not spread. So on the basis of this, we have to call the terminal operators and of course the stakeholders, to rub minds together and see what best we can do to curtail this menace. “Of course, we have done a lot of things on the part of NPA to ensure we prevent the spread of this disease, as we know the port is one of the entry points into the country, that is why we deem it fit for us to discuss what we have done, and of course what is expected of the terminal operators, for them to be able to curtail this menace. We have had collaborative efforts for us to fight this disease, we have seen what they have done, and the necessary medical materials are in each of the terminals. “We have been told they have sanitizers as preveny Lagos seaport measure for dock workers who access the vessels and there are things they said we should do which I believe the management will be able to take care of.” The NPA, in a statement issued by its General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, Adams Jatto, added that the measure was part of its bid to sustain the objective of the Federal Government’s Ease of Doing Business Policy even in the current crises. According to the statement, “The authority recognizes the financial implications of these policies on the terminal operators and will consider a shift in our operational charges to ameliorate the situation of stakeholders.” In a related development, the NPA announced that import and export operations will continue at the ports in Lagos despite a shutdown declared on the state by President Muhammadu Buhari. The NPA said: “Consequent to the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari that Lagos seaports, (Apapa and Tin can Island Ports) should remain open in the duration of the two-week lockdown of Lagos State, the Nigerian Ports Authority hereby assures all stakeholders that arrangements have been made for operations at the ports to continue without hindrance. “Safety procedures, which will guarantee the wellbeing and security of stakeholders and staff have been put in place and all are advised to kindly comply with directives of port officials. All other government agencies responsible for smooth operations in the ports are enjoined to be at their respective duty posts to discharge their functions in line with the presidential directive of maintaining operational functions at the Lagos ports. The management of the Nigerian Ports Authority assures all stakeholders of its commitment to facilitation of trade in Nigeria.” Risking Exposure However, there are fears that the policy makers in charge of Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) have committed a risky under-analysis of the impact of COVID containment as it affects those segment of workers whose jobs entail the searching of ships for unlawful cargoes. Contraband Enforcement Team (CET) Exam/Intensive Exam may be facing the high point of COVID-19 exposure. This is one aspect of port operation where COVID19 exposure is most high. Not only is this an in-depth search of your container and products, this exam has hefty fees associated with it. An Intensive Exam is usually initiated after a VACIS exam if you are sending your freight in a consolidated container, take note that in the event the container goes on a VACIS exam, then the cost of the VACIS is spread over the entire container. If there is an intensive exam, then Customs waits for the container to be stripped and just examines the cargo designated. Maritime expert and president of the Association of Good Leadership Advocates Peace Development Lagos, (AGLAPDL) revealed that there is subdued murmuring among this category of staff that most of the policy measures announced by the NPA managing director, did not reckon much with the fact that these category of NSC staff are usually the first responders to any danger which any berthing ship carries into the country. It was discovered that this category of staff may be raring to formally appeal to the MD of NPA to itemize the type of COVID 19 preventive measures the government is offering them apart from the general public enlightenment safety measures as issued by WHO through all public health institutions. However, we could not ascertain when the aggrieved staff, who have largely maintained studied silence would forward their grievances to the NPA and the NSC high commands. One of them said, “You can see that throughout the period of the lockdown, we were working because the government kept the seaports and maritime activities opened because of its importance to the economy. So we deserve some special treatment to enable us cope with the high risk exposure we suffer like the doctors.” He further added, “We suffer the anxiety of going late in the night and are exposed to night ruffians who take over the streets. So ours is essential duty and we deserve to be treated as such.”