The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) have commended the Ogun State Government’s efforts at flattening the curve of coronavirus spread.  Both organisations said they were impressed with the quality of facilities on ground, the human capital and the willingness of the Dapo Abiodun -led government to go an extra mile at ensuring that the state does not become a safe haven for the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Director General, NCDC, Dr. Chike Ihekweazu, after inspecting the first state fully funded molecular laboratory at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, Sagamu and the 128-bed COVID-19 Isolation and Treatment Centre at Ikenne lauded the leadership of the state in giving directions to other states on how to deal with the coronavirus pandemic.  The NCDC boss however, expressed his agency’s satisfaction on what the state has been able to do and promised to work with the state government in its quest to battle the Coronavirus pandemic.  He added that the centre believes the state deserves to benefit from some of the most stringent support that the Centre could offer.  Ihekweazu also noted that it was a bit difficult to put a stop to social gathering because the country is a social country, urged the state government to communicate with the people in a way that they would take ownership and responsibility for the changes in the lifestyle they will have to adopt.  In her remarks, the Country Director, World Health Organisation, Dr. Fiona Braka applauded the state government for having the capacity that could take in more patients, adding that the WHO is impressed with the state government.  In his remarks, Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abidoun disclosed that the state is fully set to tackle the pandemic, while adding that the state is set to begin the process of giving face masks to its people as soon as it receives the first batch of a million pieces.  Abiodun, disclosed that the state has invested billions of naira in terms of setting up isolation centres, sensitisation, manpower development, surveillance, procuring equipment and other logistics and especially to purchase food items distributed across the state to mitigate the effects if the lockdown on its citizens.  He added that the molecular laboratories and what the WHO and NCDC team found in the state, “were through self -help”.  The governor said the state has procured equipment for drive through testing in the local communities to ensure no stone is left unturned to curb the spread of the disease. 