Coronation Merchant Bank Limited has posted a profit after tax (PAT) of N5.097 billion for the year ended 2019 following its fifth annual general meeting (AGM) on April 14, 2020 in Lagos . The meeting, which was held in strict compliance with social distancing rules and the directives of the federal and Lagos state governments had in attendance only nine persons attending physically, while others participated via video conference. The bank’s audited figures presented showed a 14 per cent increase in PAT from N4.484 billion in 2018 to N5.097 billion. Total Assets also grew by 14 per cent from N222.78 billion in 2018 to N253.35 billion. Cost of risk remained at a healthy level of 0.05 per cent while the bank sustained its zero Non-Performing Loan (NPL) ratio indicative of strong risk management practices and good quality of risk assets. The shareholders were informed that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has recently approved the appointment of Mr Banjo Adegbohungbe as the substantive managing director/CEO following the retirement of Mr Abubakar Jimoh, who led the leadership team of the bank from inception in 2015 until recently when he commenced his terminal leave. Speaking on the appointment of Adegbohungbe as MD/CEO, the acting chairman said that, “The seamless transition in the bank’s leadership is a result of deliberate succession planning by the Board, in line with its commitment to strong corporate governance standards. “In the past 20 months, Banjo has distinguished himself in service to the organisation and contributed immensely to the overall growth of the Bank. We are confident that his appointment will further strengthen and position the Bank for improved performance.” He further stated that, “The outgoing managing director gave himself to the growth of the bank, having led a team that turned around a nearly-extinct Associated Discount House Limited and converted it to an ‘A+ rated’ merchant bank in Nigeria within five years of its existence. We will always be grateful to Abu for his years of service to the bank and for the strong values he instituted in the organisation.” The outgoing managing director/CEO of the bank, Jimoh acknowledged the wise counsel and professional guidance that he and his leadership team enjoyed from the board of directors and other key stakeholders that contributed to the Coronation MB success story. He also congratulated the in-coming MD/CEO for his well-deserved appointment, and appealed to the Board members and all stakeholders to accord him a higher level of support that will propel him to greater success. Coronation Merchant Bank was established in 2015 to provide wholesale banking to a long-underserved market. The bank offers corporate banking, investment banking, private banking/wealth management and global markets/treasury services to its niche clientele. It presently has two branches located in Abuja and Port Harcourt with its head office in Lagos, Nigeria. 