The Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) urged clearing agents and other terminal operators to use the opportunity of the long Easter break to take delivery of cargoes already cleared by the Nigeria Customs Service out of the seaports. Bello who stated this when he paid an on the spot assessment of operational activities at Five Star Logistics Limited, Tin-Can Island Port complex, Apapa said the Comptroller General of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) has assured him of the presence of Customs officers at the seaports. He also said the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) has promised to mobilise clearing agents to the seaports while the Vice chairman of the Taskforce on decongestion of the Port Access roads, Com. Kayode Opeifa has promised to make the road free for trucks to access the port. His words, “The Seaports Terminal Operators of Nigeria (STOAN), Customs, task team on decongestion of the port access road, CRFFN and Association of Nigerian Liscenced Customs Agents (ANLCA). Even the NIWA are ready. I have seen the water buses and they are ready to help move people in riverine areas to the Ports to decongest the ports. “The Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarders (CRFFN) and even the Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) have given me their word. It is important we use this opportunity of the holidays to decongest ths ports.” On complaint of insufficient buses to convey clearing agents to and fro their places of destination to the ports, Bello urged other stakeholders to support with buses. “We have provided buses, also the CRFFN has provided buses too. Others should join us in making buses available for clearing agents so that they can go and take deliveries of cargoes at the ports,” the NSC Boss added. Concerning complaints by terminal operators of their workers being molested by security operatives while on their way to the port, the NSC Boss promised to engage with the Nigerian Police Force (NPF), Neighbouhood Watch and the Lagos State Government to ensure such trend is curbed. The NSC Boss, who also took the opportunity to visit Access Bank, a commercial Bank located beside Five Star Logistic Limited, stated that most of the banks are now working inorder to resolve the issue of payment of Customs Duty “We will talk with Crffn and a task team set up to oversee activities of the port which CRFFN is a member, we will talk and bring out strategy to ensure that port workers are not harassed. over time police has been extremely friendly and I see no reason why they should at this time behave otherwise but that is why I always tell freight Forwarders to as well have something doing otherwise stay at work.”