…Inaugurates Task Force On Border Closure Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has accused security agencies and oil companies operating in the state of sabotaging the efforts of the state government to stop the spread of Coronavirus. He announced that one of the two active cases in the state is an oil worker, who recently returned to the state capital from the rig and is currently being treated at the State Treatment Centre. Wike, who spoke on Thursday at Government House, Port Harcourt, while inaugurating the State Task Force on Border Closure, said the state government is determined to protect the people of the state from the pandemic. The governor said: “We are being sabotaged at sea, land and at the Domestic Wing of the airport.  Sometimes, they secretly receive flights and before we know they people sneak into the town. The Task Force in Ikwerre must check anyone coming from the airport. “When we shout, they say we are fighting the Federal Government.  All we are saying is help us to fight the virus. This is a matter of life and death. You must protect your people. “Most of these oil companies also sabotage us. One of the cases at the State Treatment Centre is an oil worker who came from the rig. He tested positive and now our health workers are tracing all his contacts to check the spread.” He said most of the new cases in the state are people who slipped through the border and were allowed in by the security agencies. Wike stated that the state government resolved to establish the Task Force following cases of sabotage at the state boundaries, where security personnel allow unauthorized people access to the state, without the mandatory health checks. The governor said: “This Task Force is very important. When they don’t want you to live, you must devise means to survive. “You have to support the security agencies and don’t allow anyone to get into the state without approval. “Anyone coming into the state must be screened by the health officials. Don’t join the security agencies to extort money from people. If that happens, the essence of this Task Force is defeated.” He charged the Task Force to work as if they are struggling to save their own lives, saying that it became necessary because the state was being sabotaged from all sides. 