Following the rise in the number of health workers that have tested positive to coronavirus in Nigeria, a group, the Port Harcourt City One Love, has began the provision of personal protective equipment (PPEs) for health workers in Rivers State. A member of group, Kingsley Wenenda Wali disclosed this yesterday while speaking in a live radio programme, monitored in Port Harcourt. Wali said: “We are providing PPE for the doctors and frontliners because we realised that you need to be able to protect the doctors, the nurses and even the clerical staff at the hospitals because once they feel unsecured, they are most likely not attend to people who have such health challenges. “People will be running away from health facilities. So, we said let’s look for gowns, let’s look for gloves, let’s look for facemasks. We can’t give all that is required. We are only saying that we can do a bit of something and equally encourage people to do their own bit.” He said although Rivers State is next to Lagos State in terms of population, but cases of the pandemic have remained minimal due to the policies of the state government. Wali said: It is not an illusion that people who are infected here in Rivers State are low, even when we are the next populated state after Lagos, in terms of business and economic activities. It is obvious that the policies of government so far are working. He said the group intends to use all traditional means of communication to reach out to residents of the state on the dangers of disobeying directives of the state government. Wali said: “We will use all the traditional means of communication to reach our people, and inform them of the dangers of disobeying governments directive as it concerns Covid-19. “The Rivers State government in it’s wisdom shut down the markets, but there are all kinds of underground markets going on in Port Harcourt. I hear, but I have not been there myself, that some people actually go to the market as early as 3:00am in the morning. By 5:00am, they are done. Is that one not more dangerous than the daylight market? “I think people should get to know that you are not cheating the government, you are endangering your own life by leaving your house by 2:00am or 3:00am to go to the market and rub body with all kinds of people, no precaution, nothing done. “I think our people should get to understand that this is not about government. It is not about whether your love Wike or you don’t like him. It is about your own health.”