Amid the fear of Community transmission of the COVID-19 in Kano state, the Presidential Task Force and powerful delegation from Abuja came to Kano and met with governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, on the Marching Order of President Muhammadu Buhari. The Task Force members were received at the Africa House, Government House, Kano, Tuesday, Dr Nasiru Sani Gwarzo, who led the delegation, said “President Muhammadu Buhari gave us a Marching Order to be in Kano and find out what the state needs for containing the COVID-19 pandemic.” Dr Gwarzo said the “President said we must do everything possible to support, reinforce and mobilize support even beyond the nation.” In the Special Committee there are people like Professor Abdussalam Nasidi, the first pioneer Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), who is a Professor of infectious diseases, He is also the Special Adviser to the Health Minister on COVID-19 there is the renowned Dr Bimpe Adebiyi, who heads the Department of Health Services at the Federal Ministry of Health, among others. He assured that they were not in Kano to re-invent the wheel “…but we are reinforcing the wheel. We are here to support Kano team in achieving the needs that are necessary for containing the global pandemic.” In his response governor Ganduje thanked President Buhari for coming to the aid of the state “…at this critical time. He takes the right step and there is no doubt about this. Your coming to Kano will let you know the areas that we need all the necessary intervention.” He reiterated his call for more Testing Centres in the state, saying that, “Testing Centre is the nucleus of the fight against COVID-19. It is just like a heart in our body. We have to give you full cooperation. This is what we have been looking for.” “We need more Testing Centres in the state. And the extension of Isolation Centres is absolutely necessary. Because there is this fear of community transmission. And we need more sample collection areas. In all the 44 local governments we must have multiple collection centres,” he said. Ganduje requested for the provision of more Personal Protection Equipment (PPEs). Adding that life insurance is absolutely necessary. Explaining further that, “We are also providing Palliatives to our health workers, they also have families, who must also be supported.” “We also need optimum supply of all supplies to the state. We will work together day and night. After going round with you, we will come and see where we have gaps.” Professor Nasidi said they are not in Kano to compete or to replace any existing structure, but to reinforce already existing structures in the state, insisting that “…we are going to work with your team Your Excellency. We are here and we are going to work 24/7. We will always be available.” He was pleased to mention that, “I am pleased for coming home, Kano, when my people need me the most. We all know that Kano is not in denial at all. The state believes that the pandemic must be fought from all angles.” According to him, the Presidential Task Force has confidence in governor Ganduje, adding that, “We have the competence and understanding of the governor. What we need now is the cooperation of other people, like traditional institutions, scholars, community leaders, among others.” On her part, Dr Adebiyi said she was impressed how passionate the governor is in healthcare service delivery for the state, even before the COVID-19 pandemic. She reiterated that they were not in Kano to reinvent the wheel, but in the the state to work hand in hand with the state. She made technical explanations on why they were in Kano and stated process and procedures that are necessary to work together with the state government.