In this feature, ADENIYI ADUNOLA, takes a look at how the telecommunications operators and the industry regulator, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) are helping the federal and state governments to combat the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. As the COVID-19, better known as coronavirus continues to ravage the global community, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) as the telecommunications industry regulator has rallied the telecommunications industry by putting in place measures to support initiatives by other stakeholders to curtail the scourge. The Commission in conjunction with industry players and all other government agencies have agreed to reduce the frequency of physical meetings all through the period of the coronavirus outbreak and consider alternative electronic meeting platforms, in order to reduce person to person contact that may arise from travels or meetings. The Commission has approved resource sharing by telecom operators throughout the period of coronavirus. These include fibre optics cables and other resources in the event of cable cuts and other unforeseen developments during the period of coronavirus outbreak. According to director, Public Affairs, NCC, Henry Nkemadu, the NCC supports Right of Passage (RoP) for all telecommunications members for easy movement in the event of a total lockdown and or restriction of movement. The regulator is also in support of RoP for suppliers that are involved in supplies of fuels, foods and other support services to telecom operators, to allow for free movement in the event of partial or total lockdown as a result of the coronavirus. This followed the call by the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) to NCC to plead with the federal government to grant free movement for technical personnel of telecom companies to ensure refueling of base stations and maintenance of communications during the lockdown. Executive secretary, ATCON, Mr. Ajibade Olude, said though the lockdown was an attempt to curb the spread of Coronavirus outbreak in the country, there was also need to ensure no poor quality of service during the period. Already, President Muhammadu Buhari in his presidential address to the nation acquiesced to the telcos request. Nkemadu also said departments within the NCC that interface with customers have developed e-platforms where all licencing requests, consumer complaints and BTS investigation requests could be channeled  or provide designated e-mail addresses to be used for such requests throughout the pandemic period. “All social and official visits to the Commission have been cancelled immediately and visitors advised to use relevant online platforms and or telephone services in accessing the Commission’s services. For those who may be affected, we implore them to take advantage of the Emergency Communications Centres (ECC) by dialing the toll free number 112,” he said. The NCC also directed Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) to ensure that their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes are in tandem with government initiatives to curtail the COVID-19 pandemic in order to provide safety and support aid materials that will protect the public against coronavirus. In adherence to that, the telecom operators in the past several weeks have implemented precautionary measures in their facilities nationwide, suspended all non-critical business meetings, travel and events and activated travel-related self-isolation protocols. They have also complemented the government’s sensitization drive, introduced rigorous cleaning measures and equipped team members with additional sanitation and safety products. All the telcos have been closely monitoring the situation and believe it is crucial that companies help contain the escalating outbreak and safeguard operations so that economies keep moving.  For instance, MTN Nigeria created a raft of advertorials to educate the public on Covid and encouraging its customers to maintain good hygiene. It is also amplifying this with a “Stay Safe” campaign on its voice call handle on mobile phones. “For MTN in particular, we understand the vital role our network and services play in supporting people, organizations and institutions nationwide. “Mindful of our responsibility – to keep Nigeria and Nigerians connected to the people they love and the information and technology they need, we have adjusted our internal policies and made a few changes to how we serve our customers. From Monday 23 March 2020, most of our teams will begin working from home. “Please be assured that our operations will continue running at full scale with essential staff working limited hours on-site. As part of our response plan, in the coming days, we will introduce our Y’ello care package – several new measures as part of a concerted effort to support our customers,” said a statement from MTN stated. These include further amplifying governments sensitization efforts – using more channels to deliver health and safety information, and suspending fees for all money transfers using MTN’s Momo Agent network. Concurring, chief executive officer of Y’ello Digital Financial Services, Usoro Usoro stated that, “With the Y’ello hope package, we are working to introduce measures that support our customers and communities, through this difficult time. Free Cash2Cash, allows users continue to make money transfers, safely to help their loved ones meet financial obligations without fretting about the charges.” Airtel Nigeria on its part also announced a donation of 40 mobile phones complete with a Closed User Group (CUG) to the Port Health Services, an arm of the Federal Ministry of Health, to support its effort to track and verify passenger information at the country’s local and international airports. Airtel began a nationwide awareness campaign will go live on Tuesday, 24th March 2020 and will be heavy on both traditional and social media with simple and creative messages that will be translated into Yoruba, Hausa and Igbo and broadcast across radio, billboard, press, phones/devices and digital media. Mr. Segun Ogunsanya, managing director and chief executive officer of Airtel Nigeria, said Airtel like every other organization is committed to any measure that will help curb the spread of the deadly Coronavirus. “The phones, airtime and CUG are probably the least we can do in the circumstance to empower the gallant men and women at the forefront of the fight against the scourge. It is also our belief that the robust national campaign will deepen awareness and help more Nigerians to take the precautionary measures seriously,” he said. In a letter to Airtel customer, Ogunsanya said, “To ease the pain of quarantine, we’ve introduced attractive data bundles on video calls, so you can conduct meetings and conferences remotely. Also double the data every time you top-up a 4G connection. “While you are at home you can entertain yourself with the Airtel TV App. It brings a world of entertainment straight to your phone and is free for all Airtel users with no subscription fees.” In addition to the national campaign and donations to the Port Health Services, Airtel has also zero-rated visits to the websites of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) just as it has changed its network ID on customers’ handset to read, ‘Be Safe.’ The phones donated to the Ports Health Services, according to Airtel, will ensure that passengers on incoming flights from the affected countries globally, who may be at risk, can be reached post arrival for further medical checks and quarantine where necessary. Not to be left out, pioneer 4G LTE broadband service provider, Smile Nigeria has created data free access to NCDC and World Health Organisation websites for everyone on its network, to have easy access to up-to-date information on the pandemic. A statement by the operators said “Smile has taken steps to remain fully operational and serve the best interest of its customers in this challenging time. Consequently, it has created many online platforms to enable its teeming customers to recharge, make enquiries and seek assistance.” Meanwhile, NCC said it was in touch with law enforcement agencies to constantly protect telecom infrastructure nationwide. “We will come out from time to time with enlightenment information on the dangers of the virus so that consumers can be guided accordingly. Since we are in this together, no effort would be spared to bring this deadly disease to an end.