The Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and allies led by Russia, known as OPEC, are due to meet on Thurs- day to discuss a possible new glob- al crude supply cut to end the price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia, which has prompted United States  (US) President Donald Trump to in- tervene. The development prompted Sau- di Aramco to delay the release of its crude official selling prices (OSP) for May until April 10 to wait for the out- come of the meeting regarding pos- sible output cuts, a senior Sau- di source familiar with the matter told Reuters yesterday. The Saudi source said that Riyadh wants to avoid a repeat of the out- come of the March meeting where oil talks collapsed due to Russia’s refusal to cut output. Coordinated cuts between OPEC+ members expired on March 31, having helped support crude prices since they be- gan in January 2017. “It is an unprecedented measure that has not been taken by Aram- co before. May OSPs will depend on how the OPEC+ meeting concludes. We are doing what we can to make it successful, including taking this extraordinary step to delay the OSPs,” the Saudi source said. Saudi Aramco typically issues its OSPs by the 5th of each month, setting the trend for Iranian, Kuwaiti and Iraqi prices and affecting more than 12 million barrels of oil per day bound for Asia.  The OPEC+ meeting was initially due to take place today, but was postponed till April 9 “to allow for more time to reach out to all producers including OPEC+ and others”, the Saudi source said.  FG Plans Integration Of Artisanal Refineries To Curb Oil Theft Meanwhile, the federal government has said it would support the integration and operations of artisanal refineries to reduce crude oil theft, lime fuel import, and enhance revenue generation. This was contained in a communiqué released at the end of the consultative meeting between the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs and Lead federal government team in the oil sector.  The communiqué which was made available to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja, yesterday, was signed by the senior special assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Senator lta Enang, group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kyari, and the acting managing director of the Niger Delta Devel- opment Commission (NDDC), Prof. Pondei. Others were MR A. A. George of the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), Idris Musa, the director-general/chief executive of National Oil Spill Detection Response Agency (NOSDRA), Mr Pinda U.F, Pe- troleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF), and Mr Godwin Sunday, chairman, Association of Artisanal Lo cal Refineries Operators in Nigeria.  The statement explained that after a review of NNPC’s report on the inability of Nigerian three refineries to operate and NEITI’s report on crude oil theft and revenue loss, it was imperative for the government to integrate artisanal refineries for economic growth and development  It noted that the integration would be subject to technical appraisal of each artisanal facility and upgrading to guarantee safety, technical quality of products, namely, petrol, diesel, kerosene and other products as well as environmental standards and protection.  “The federal government through the NNPC and other agencies shall cooperate and support the integration and operations of Artisanal Refineries. “That as a model, the federal gov- ernment directs that operators may form themselves into cooperatives or business units, merge their operations and have a maximum of three sites per state where the NNPC may inspect, and proceed to support, encourage for the purpose of allocating products for refining,’’ it said.  According to the communiqué, government of the respective states will be brought on board on this matter and multi-sectoral federal government team will inspect each of the locations for the purpose of ascertaining their suitability.  It added that the PTDF and Federal University of Technology, Ef- furun, as well as the Department of Petroleum Engineering, Ahmau Bello University, operating the modular refinery would provide and avail each of the model oper- ators, technical expertise. It also noted the imperative of engaging domestic technological potentials and protection of the environment besides adding value and creating employment.