Contrary to insinuations and several reports alleging that the National Assembly (NASS) is set to probe the National Pension Commission (PenCom) and its acting director-general, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar over misappropriation of funds, the legislature has denied making such move. The chairman, Joint Senate and House of Representatives Committee on Pensions, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, while reacting to this development yesterday, said, the committee is not probing the Acting DG of PenCom neither does it recommended her to be probed by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). As the chairman of the committee, he said, neither the Senate Committee nor the House of Representative Committee on Pension is currently investigating her for any wrongdoing. Disclosing that the committee lacks the power to instruct ICPC to probe the commission, he added that, NASS would have referred the Acting DG of PenCom to the presidency had it been she was found capable of the alleged act. Although, he said, the National Assembly raised some issues last year, when the budget was being prepared, he added that, all those issues were cleared and the committee has no issue with either the Acting DG or the commission. According to him, “I wonder where this falsehood is coming from. I am not aware of any problem with PenCom. It is totally false and to think that somebody somewhere is trying to frame the Acting DG for reasons best to known to them is too bad. But as far as we are concerned, we have no issue, needless recommending her for probe.” When LEADERSHIP contacted the commission for response to the allegations, the Head, Corporate Communications, PenCom, Mr Peter Aghahowa, said, those allegations were unfounded, baseless and lacks any merit, saying, this is not the first time some mischievous elements have tried to soil the good image of the commission and the acting director general. He said, the commission, irrespective of the unfounded allegations leveled against it by these unscrupulous people, will continue to perform its civic duties and responsibilities of regulating the pension industry to ensure that the rights of retirees and Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders are protected. Though, he said, most States of the federation are under lockdown, thereby, leading to closure of business activities across the country, he noted that the robust technology at the disposal of the commission has ensured that PenCom continues to render its services as expected during this coronavirus outbreak that has infected over 600 people within Nigeria. It would be recalled that on Monday, there were some reports circulating on online media claiming that ICPC is set to probe the acting director-general of PenCom, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, for alleged misappropriation of funds, flagrant violation of procurement process and abuse of office. The reports attributed this to recent findings by the joint Senate and House of Representatives Committees on Pensions, which revealed high level of financial recklessness in the commission headed by Dahir-Umar. According to said reports, it alleged that the NASS committee accused PenCom of fraudulently spending N9 billion on salaries of only 386 staff, and another N12.3 billion (of the Internally generated revenue of the commission) without approval of the National Assembly.