Barely 24 hours after a statement was issued by the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), the umbrella body of the distribution companies (DisCos), expressing their readiness to provide 2-month free electricity to their customers in support of government’s palliative measures during the COVID-19 lock down, the body has made further clarifications on the conditions for the offer. ANED in a statement signed by its Executive Director, Research and Advocacy, Barr. Sunday Oduntan, said the clarification became necessary due to questions that have arisen as to how the cost that will accumulate will be absorbed in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). The statement made it clear that the energy to be supplied for the 2 months is not free from the DisCos as it would be paid for by the federal government in partnership with the National Assembly. “As such, the ability for the DisCos to go forward is subject to the stimulus package being passed by the National Assembly to be signed into law by Mr. President,” the statement read. While commending Mr. President, members of his government and the National Assembly for this initiative at this critical time, the DisCos expressed hope that Nigerians do not lose sight of the non-cost reflective tariff challenge that the DisCos continue to suffer. Meanwhile, Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) has urged its customers to continue to pay their bills, saying the said 2-month free electricity is only a proposal yet. The management of KEDCO in a statement signed by the company’s Head, Corporate Communications, Ibrahim Sani Shawai said it is in support of the palliative measures being planned by the executive and the legislative arms of the government which include the proposed two months free electricity supply to all Nigerians. The management however noted that the palliative move is still a proposal that has not been rectified and as such customers should continue to pay their bills, while KEDCO awaits the implementation of the palliative move by government. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of KEDCO, Dr Jamil Isyaku Gwamna assured that KEDCO would continue to ensure constant and improved power supply during and after the pandemic, adding “ We have already mobilised more engineers to the fields and put modalities in place to ensure the comfort of all our customers in Kano, Jigawa and Katsina states”. Similarly, Kaduna Electric and Ibadan Electricity distribution Company (IBEDC) had taken to their Twitter handles respectively to issue statements, urging their customers to continue to ensure that they pay their electricity bills in the meantime until modalities for the “2-month free electricity” were worked out and passed into law, while expressing their support for government’s palliative plans for the people during the COVID-19 lockdown.