The monthly competition organized by Princewill’s Trust for entrepreneurs, youths and residents who are engaged in micro business ventures or other menial work in Rivers State, has rewarded Theatre Arts graduate from the Imo State University, Miss Nneoma Uzoka for winning March 2020 edition of the “Help the Hard worker”. Miss Nneoma, an indigene of Imo state who sells crayfish in the popular weekly Oil mill market and Aluu boundary market came tops to beat close contestants, Miss Chioma Amuzie and Florence Martins who came in second and third positions respectively in the keenly contested competition which had over five thousand contestants. Confirming the receipt of an online transfer of the cash prize of One Hundred Thousand Naira via a telephone conversation, Nneoma who said she was excited and profoundly grateful added that the money would go a long way in expanding her business. The Imo state born Theatre Arts graduate turned Crayfish seller further noted that, she intends to invest the prize money in her business as soon as the whole Covid19 pandemic blows over. Miss Nneoma also used the opportunity to call on hard working and enterprising youths in the state to take advantage of the platform provided by the Princewill’s Trust to apply as they may emerge winners too someday. Speaking on behalf of the Princewill’s Trust, Hon. Ikem Anthony congratulated the prize winner and called on the general public to stay safe and stay at home to curtail the spread of the corona virus which is current on the rise in the state. Founder of the Trust, Prince Tonye Princewill urged Miss Nneoma to use the money well and not to see it as a windfall to solve other issues. On the current lockdown by the federal government and some state governors, Princewill said; “Considering what we are going through, I think it is pertinent to use this medium to appeal to every one of us to start the victory march against the Covid 19 virus from within. Each of us must play our part. My health is your health and vice versa. We are all inter connected. “What we have learnt from the rest of the world tells us that one person carrying the virus can infect several people before that one person can even display any symptoms. So self isolation, social distancing and very good hygiene makes a very very big difference. The best advice from me to you is stay home, avoid going out and lie low unless you have a critical reason not to. Follow the advise of the government and the healthcare professionals and please please please, do not gamble with your life. You only have one. What you are looking for outside could kill you or someone close to you. “Here in Princewills Trust, we and the team have had to make changes to our laid down processes to protect our team and the wider community in which we operate. The first is we have had to do electronic transfers and present prizes virtually, so as to protect lives. The second is we will postpone the Help a Hardworker competition until full freedom of movement has been restored. Our inability to fully vet nominees means that it would be impossible to carry on in its current format. We will use this period to refocus on awareness and reorientation with a focus on positive messaging”, he added.