Leadway Assurance Company Limited is set to giveback two weeks premium refund to its Personal Motor Comprehensive Insurance policyholders. The give back, according to the insurer, translates to two weeks premium, which would be given to policyholders who were constrained to ground their vehicles in strict compliance of the lockdown order by the Federal Government, following the spread of coronavirus pandemic in the country. Commenting on the company’s gesture, it’s Managing Director, Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale, said: “the lockdown has had far reaching effects across the country, challenging both individuals and businesses. People are watching and will remember how businesses treated them during this crisis. Our decision to provide the ‘give back’ to our loyal comprehensive motor insurance policyholders will go a long way to support customers experiencing unforeseen pressure on their finances at this time.” This, he said, is another way of thanking its clients for supporting the FG to ‘flatten the curve’ by staying at home. The value of the airtime, equivalent of 50% of a month’s premium, he pointed out, would be credited to customers by the end of April, 2020, following confirmation of customer details. To him, customers with financial burdens can also call to discuss extended grace periods for missed payments, payment plans, and waiving late fees and penalties. Similarly, the Commercial Director for its General Insurance Business, Mr. Gboyega Lesi, said: “As society works together to slow the spread of COVID-19, there are more people at home, driving less and having fewer accidents. Given this reduction in road risks due to little or no driving, it is only fair that some premium be refunded so that the customer does not lose at the end of the day.” Stating that this gesture is the responsible thing to do in the face of a pandemic-inspired economic lockdown, he believes, the support will, in some way, help its motor insurance clients deal with the rough patches. Earlier, the Company had made a sizeable donation to the health sector, joining other like-minded insurers to provide a N5 billion Life cover for the frontline workers helping the nation to combat this pandemic. The insurer also donated Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) materials, COVID-19 test kits and foodstuff to the tune of N135 million as part of its efforts to support optimal testing and treatment of COVID-19 cases in Nigeria. The company, therefore enjoined all its customers and Nigerians to adhere strictly to the guidelines stipulated by the appropriate government and health authorities to curb the spread of this pandemic.