As Nigerians continue to battle with the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, grandmasters of data, Globacom, has offered  20 percent more data to its customers with the introduction of “Stay Home Data” plan. Under the plan, subscribers to the Glo network will automatically get additional data for any data bundle they subscribe to. According to Globacom, a subscriber can have as much as 20 per cent  more data for his or her data bundle subscription depending on the quantum of data purchased. “The more data you buy, the more data bonus you enjoy. For example, a N20,000 data plan will attract up to 20% more data, while a N100 data plan will give the subscriber up to 5% more data”, Globacom said in the statement. The company further explained that the N20,000 bundle which before now offered 115GB would now give 138GB, meaning an additional data of 23GB, which is 20% more. The N100 plan which before now gave 90MB will attract an additional 15MB which brings the total to 105MB data. Subscribers who recharge with N500 will now enjoy a total of 1.05GB instead of the former 1GB while the N1000 bundle will now give 2.5GB instead of the previous 2.3GB; N2000 bundle, 5.8GB instead of the old 5.25GB, and the N3,000 bundle will give 10GB as against the 9GB which customers received under the old package. The company assured its customers of uninterrupted service on its network backed by an undersea fibre optic cable, Glo 1, which delivers interconnectivity from Europe to Nigeria and the coast of West Africa. As part of its own response to ensure the safety of Nigerians while the pandemic lasts, the company advised all to take measures to ensure their safety in line with the guidelines provided by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO). These include regular hand washing and use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers, limiting non-essential travel and ensuring timely medical checkups. “Our primary focus at Globacom is to ensure that all Nigerians remain safe to support their families and the economy. We urge everyone to stay aware of updated practices and strategies to combat Coronavirus. These are trying times. However, we are confident we will overcome.  Stay connected, safety for all”, the statement assured.