A Non-Governmental Organization known as One Destiny Organization (ODO) has outlined prayer sessions and programs seeking God’s intervention in containing the ravaging Corona Virus otherwise known as COVID-19 in Nigeria and beyond. The Executive Director of One Destiny Organization, Ohiri O. Lewis, who disclosed this to newsmen in Owerri after inspecting the brand new Isolation Center with world class medical equipment being constructed by the Lagos State Government at Onikan Stadium, Lagos, said they are using Alhaji Abba Kyari, the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, who recently tested positive to the virus but now recovering quickly as a ‘point of contact’ to reach and pray for the recovery of other infected persons in Nigeria and globally. “We in One Destiny Organization have resolved to enter into prayer sessions and spiritual programs to ultimately seek the face of God and His spiritual intervention while our nation under President Mohammadu Buhari and health professionals work assiduously to contain this dreaded virus. We consider this spiritual approach very vital and timely considering the fact that ‘man will always achieve success in every human endeavour when covered by the divinity of God/Allah who is the giver of life’. While praying for Alhaji Kyari who is fast recovery, we are also extending such prayers to other infected persons in our country and beyond”, Ohiri said. The group which 2019 adopted and campaigned rigorously for the reelection of President Buhari, further explained that the prayer session and programs which are commencing on Tuesday and coordinated online, would involve the participation of thousands of her members including those already complying with the ‘stay at home’ directive while observing  precautionary measures stipulated by the federal and states government across the country. Expressing confidence that the Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Kyari and about 131 confirmed cases would be clinically healed and discharged to rejoin their family members on the heel of God’s intervention, Ohiri further implores all Nigerians to strictly heed to government directives and health precautionary measures including regular washing of hands with soaps and sanitizers, observing social distancing and self-isolation. He also commended the good efforts of the Lagos State Government under the leadership of Babajide Sanwo-Olu whom he said has shown character and exemplary leadership by collaborating effectively with President Buhari-led Federal Government of Nigeria under the professional supervision of the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, in the fight against the Corona Virus pandemic.  