…Urges Wealthy Nigerians To Reach Out To The Poor The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has said humanity had overcome more calamitous plagues, and will overcome Covid-19 pandemic. NLC president, Ayuba Wabba in his Easter message to workers said God sending a message of hope that after this night of weeping occasioned by thepandemic, there shall be joy in our morning. “The unfortunate encroachment of Covid-19 in the way we work, play, live and worship especially during this season of Easter inspires us that what began as doom and death on Easter Friday would soon give way to the brightness of resurrection and victory on Easter Sunday. This is no mere coincidence,” he said Wabba said while we focus on the victory ahead, we must also reflect on the lessons that the sobriety enforced by the Covid-19 pandemic and the resulting global lockdown offer. He said, “these lessons are also the lessons of Easter. Easter reminds us of God’s love for the whole world. Covid-19 reminds us of a shared humanity. We are in this together. Covid-19 reminds us that what touches the nose would soon touch the eyes. Rich countries, poor climes, developed economies, struggling societies, workers, owners of capital, politicians, peasants, aristocrats, artisans, are all affected by this global pandemic that fears neither class nor status. “This imposes on us a new sense of awakening to re-order our priorities. Government must now major on the major. We must rededicate ourselves to issues that bother the majority. The focus must be efficient, resilient and inclusive health and education systems. Given the impact of Covid-19, we must prioritize jobs preservation, income recovery and the creation of new jobs. This is about our collective will to survive.” According to Wabba this Easter commemoration also demands a lot of sacrifice from all of us just as Jesus Christ sacrificed His life as a ransom for the sins of the world. He explained that humanity is greatly indebted to the sacrifice shown by frontline workers in the health, transport, and services sector, both formal and informal, stressing that their huge personal sacrifices are making a world of difference between mass deaths and the safety of majority of us. He said, “we all must emulate their sacrifice of love and make their jobs a lot easier by following all the directives of government geared towards containing the onslaught of the Covid-19 pandemic. Until government says otherwise, we must all stay home, stay safe and remain vigilant. “Finally, fellow workers, there is no better time to show love than this Easter period. The whole lessons of Easter are summarized by love. Now is the time for the rich to remember the poor, the homeless, the hungry, the widows, the unemployed, the distraught and distressed in their troubles. By identifying with the needy especially at this time, we would not only be carrying the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ but demonstrating the highest form of piety and worship to our Lord.”