The immediate past executive secretary of the Benue State Teaching Service Board, Prof. Wilfred Uji, has threatened to drag the commissioner for Education, Prof. Dennis Itavyar, to the anti-graft agencies for what he described as mischief and blackmail, few days after his resignation. In an interview with journalists after resignation, Uji said that he decided to disengage his services to process his return to academics where he left as an associate professor of History because the commissioner has taken over the function of the Board, and he was relegated to the background. He said: “As you can see, the schools under TSB are generating N1 billion every year and this money for four years as the executive secretary is not properly accounted for and when I complained, I became an incompetent person. “I want the truth to come out, so I am going to petition the commissioner to the anti-graft agency to ensure that the real truth is out and I am ready to go to jail if I am found guilty,” he said. According to him, his tenure which was for a period of four years was to last from 2016-2020. In a swift reaction, Itavyar said that he was shocked over the outright lies and complete misrepresentation of facts in the public space peddled against the state government by Uji. “We are shock because despite Dr. Uji”s long years in the academia and government, he could still deliberately disseminate skewed and malicious information against a government he served for some years,” he said. The Benue State commissioner accused the immediate past Executive Secretary of incompetence and fraud saying that  after several warnings it became obvious that he could no longer competently man the high office he occupied and was asked to resign. The commissioner who spoke through the information officer of the ministry, Cecilia Akegh also described Uji as being  insubordinate to the government that appointed him as well as disrespectful to the supervising ministry and its leadership. Professor Itavyar however vowed to ensure a thorough investigation to unravel the rot in the board.  