As part of its education intervention especially to insurgency ravaged areas, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in partnership with Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) Joint Ventures has expended the sum of N315million on the construction of new and upgrading of structures at Modu Mustapha Primary School Damaturu in Yobe State. Executed by Development Africa, the projects were funded by Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation under NNPC/SPDC/TEPNG Agip Joint Venture as part of their Education Intervention and Corporate social responsibility in Nigeria. The projects executed are construction of four blocks of four classrooms, administrative block, renovation of one block of three classrooms, supply and installation of solar panels for uninterrupted power, drilling of borehole and reticulations and construction of ten apartments of toilets among others. Commissioning the projects, Governor Buni represented by the executive chairman of State Universal Education (SUBEB) Prof. Musa Alabe said the execution of the projects by the NNPC and its implementing partners is a major step in complementing the reconstruction efforts of the state government across Yobe. Buni who thanked them for the quality job said, “These buildings will be reference points of all our buildings in our primary schools in Yobe State.” He assured that government will maintain the structures and facilities provided especially solar panels among others adding that government will not allow investments of this magnitude to fade due to poor maintenance. The country director of Development Africa Implementing Partners, Mr. Joshua Kempeneer, represented by Mr. Solomon Friday said that the projects costing over N315 million was executed in accordance with the goals of Nigeria’s IDP resettlement strategies. Kempeneer said: “The education intervention supports Nigeria’s goals of basic education for all… (provision of good sanitation, clean water, and health and education facility) as well as the long term development agenda as outlined in vision 2020.”  