The Criminal Investigative Department (CID) of the Nigeria Police Force in Nasarawa State has arrested the chairman of Lafia North Development Area, Suleiman Mohammed Agyo and the registrar of Nasarawa State Polytechnic, Alhaji Murhtar Wakeel, for non-compliance with the state government’s order on social distancing. LEADERSHIP gathered that Agyo had last Saturday taken a second wife in a lavish and well-attended ceremony amid strict COVID-19 lockdown where the registrar represented the polytechnic community. The APC national vice chairman in the North Central zone, Alhaji Suleiman Wambai and the chairman of Lafia East Development Area, Alhaji Shuaibu Buba, who also attended the ceremony against the state government order, are said to be on the run. Angyo and Wakeel were picked up at the venue of the ceremony by the police in Lafia where the security agencies accused them of going against the state social distancing rule to flatten the curve of coronavirus. The two officials who spend a whole night in police detention are to be charged to court  to serve as a deterrent to others who may want to disobey the lockdown directives. A CID officer in Lafia who does not want his name in print, said that the action of the two officials violated movement restriction order put in place by the state government to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state where gathering of more than 20 people have been banned. Our correspondent who was at the station saw the two government officials detained behind the canter while their handsets were seized and communication with sympathisers banned by the officer in charge. It was also gathered that all their frantic efforts to get in touch with the governor to direct their release failed as the governor is said to have insisted that full wrath of the law must take its course. LEADERSHIP equally learnt that the police had begun intense search for the whereabouts of the national vice chairman of APC in the North Central, Alhaji Sulieman Wambai and the overseer of Lafia East development area, Shuaibu Buba for arrest and detention, they have since gone into hiding. It would be recalled Governor Sule had suspended all marriage and naming ceremonies in addition to banning all social gatherings in the state. “Where it has become necessary to hold such ceremonies, attendance should be restricted to members of the immediate family of not more than 20 people “ the governor had directed. The state commissioner of police, Bola Longe, who confirmed the arrest while speaking with journalists in his official residence in Lafia yesterday said the two officials will be prosecuted for violating the social distance order of the state government.