A popular Nigerian Pastor, who is the founder of Zionwealth Church, Lekki, Chris Omashola, has decried the growing hunger in the country, calling out Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Mike Adenuga, Rabi Abubakar, AbdulSamad Rabiu, Folorunsho Alakija, Emeka Okonkwo (E-money) and others to rise up by donating against the menace. With prediction that hundreds of thousands of the most vulnerable children could be exposed to a dangerous mix of extreme poverty, malnutrition and hunger as a result of outbreak of Covid-19 and more fiercely the national Lockdown, Omashola, whose foundation has provided millions of naira to poor masses both on social media and other mobilization, said he has chosen charitable initiatives above flamboyant lifestyle to ease the plight of less privileged Nigerians. “I am not a billionaire yet and I must not be one before I lift others. Besides, knowing well that one have not lived today until you have done something for someone who can never repay you, I must confess that I am much more passionate about ending hunger and poverty in this country and it is on this note that I call most of our billionaires to join me in this dire time. We welcome cheerful donations into 0070140997 (Sterling Bank),” he said in a release made available to journalists through his media aide Seun Adeyeye yesterday. Omashola, a media pr expert who doubles as Chief Executive Officer of ACO Media PR Consultants, and Kevwe AUTOS Ltd had last week called on President Muhammadu Buhari to make better provision for Nigerians living in crisis.
To him, the burning passion for alleviation of hardship, in the COVID-19 lockdown period, is hard to ignore. “Omashola said: I believe in doing the little that I can to support the needy and not the greedy. I sincerely want to do more for these people. Nigerians have flooded my social media accounts with bank account numbers. I have given so much, and I am still giving; but much more is needed. “My foundation; Strokes Africa Foundation and Appstle Chris Omashola(ACO) Foundation are open to supports from well meaning Nigerians, including Aliko Dangote, Femi Otedola, Mike Adenuga, E-money, Alakija, Rabi, Abubakar and all as we give directly to the needy. I will announce whatever I receive from them, with their names; and I will make sure it gets to the millions of account numbers that I receive daily. I believe Nigerians will appreciate this method a lot more. “After this life, the only thing we would be remembered for is the impact we made on other people. We only live once, and if God has blessed us, assisting those that need it the most should be our utmost desire.” The cleric stressed that there is no point in preaching the gospel of hope and peace to hungry people, adding, “I believe giving and preaching work hand in hand.