As various states in Nigeria battle to contain the ravaging global pandemic, COVID-9, Lagos State government, Benue State and a Kano Business mogul, Alhaji Isiaku Rabiu, have separately placed orders for nose masks from the Cross River State Garment Factory. While Lagos State placed order for one million nose masks, Rabiu ordered for 1,000 pieces of the masks to assist the Kano state government contain the pandemic. Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade who made the disclosure at the Garment factory Calabar stated that  production of masks has been ramped up  at the factory following the  orders. Apart from states, order organizations that have made orders for masks from the factory include construction giants, Julius Berger and DHL. “We have Julius Berge, a construction company that has made a massive order. Shoprite also has made a massive order. We have also received an order of one million masks from Lagos State government. “Alhaji Isaiaku Rabiu made an order for a hundred thousand masks for Kano state,” the governor disclosed. He said he was at the factory to carry out an inspection on quality control and ensure that the masks were made according to specifications. “As you can see, we are here at the garment factory to carry out an inspection on quality control of preparation of the masks and ensuring that by the time they finish the ironing process, it will go through a sterilization chamber which is an innovation”, Ayade said He disclosed  that plans were under way to design military style masks for the military and para military organizations. According to him, the special masks will come with fitted special protection and air filtration systems. Ayade said, “As you are all aware, Cross River State started the concept of cloth mask. So we want to use this opportunity to say we want to move into the new brand of a military mask which will have special protection and special air filtration as well as special breathing support systems to enable the military use it on a daily basis even in the face of a biological warfare”. The governor maintained said he has taken time to wear the mask in different combination of clothes to create awareness and to show that no matter how you dress, there is a mask that can fit with your dressing. He continued: “I have taken time to wear the mask in different combination of clothes not just for the purpose of wearing the mask but to create awareness on the use of the masks. And also as a means of marketing that even if you are wearing a traditional attire, there are masks that can go with your dressing. “If you intend to go with a jean and a top it can still fit so whether you are young or middle aged or old, there is always a way and style that the mask will fit. And until Coronavirus is over, wearing masks has to become our way of life.” He expressed optimism that with the support of the federal government, Cross River State should be in a position to start exporting masks to other African countries in the near future. “I believe that with the support of the federal government, we should be in a position to start exporting masks to other African countries very soon.with our installed capacity at three shifts we can do close to a million masks a day and am happy the federal government is adopting wearing of nose masks as a national policy”, Ayade added. 