Digital pay TV company, StarTimes Nigeria has announced a one-month “free to view” service for four local television stations on its platform for active and non-active subscribers. The local stations include the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Silverbird News 24, Channels Television (AIT), and Africa Independent Television (AIT). StarTimes also announced the debut of the nation’s leading entertainment station, Ebony Life TV on all of its bouquet. The free viewing on some of the local stations, the company said is to ensure steady and up-to-date information offering to its subscribers on issues relating to the coronavirus pandemic while the debut of Ebony Life is to boost the provision of entertaining content for the teeming subscribers who are compelled to sit at home in the nation’s quest at managing the pandemic. The chief executive officer, StarTimes Nigeria, Mr. David Zhang, who spoke on the offerings, noted that aligning with the directive of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), the one-month free viewing on the local stations will have the stations run even after subscribers had exhausted their subscription. This arrangement, he added, could be further reviewed subject to the issuance of further directives by the NBC. He said: “We know that everyone needs updated reportage of happenings in their environment on the coronavirus pandemic and we have leading news and current affairs channels on our platform that is poised to provide our subscribers with the needed information from across the country.”while programmes that would focus on education, climate change and equally enlighten the youths. In his response, general manager, southern operations of LEADERSHIP, Mr. Abdulwasiu Kehinde thanked the 5-man member who visited his office, assuring that LEADERSHIP will always support them at all times. Recounting his encounter with NASFAT, Kehinde commended the group, saying that he had an encounter with the group in one of his trips to the United State of America which has attested to the fact that they are widely spread globally. Corroborating NASFAT position on its spread worldwide, Kehinde said, “concerning what one of your member said on your spread. I remember I had my Sallah prayer one time I went to Texas in the US”. The GM however, advised NASFAT to do more in other levels of education, apart from tertiary educational level which they seem to focus more on. In her comment, Member of NASFAT Council of Elders, Alhaja Samiat Mumuni pointed out that NASFAT, since inception has been focusing on the empowerment of the needy, health, education and people living in poverty.