Amidst protest and disapproval by professional bodies in the health sector, 15 Chinese medical personnel yesterday arrived in Nigerian to assist in the battle against Coronavirus. The 15-member medical team from China landed the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, on a chattered Air Peace aircraft at about 5:18pm. The medical team comprising of trained physicians in infectious diseases, respiratory illness, intensive care, cardiology, neurology, general surgery and anesthesiology will be in the country in the next 30 days. Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr Zhou Pingjian;  Nigeria’s minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire; executive director, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation, Mr Jacques Liao, senior officials of the ministries of Foreign Affairs, Health were at the airport to receive the medical personnel and the medical equipment. The minister of State for Health, Dr  Olorunnimbe Mamora, who represented the minister at yesterday briefing of the presidential taskforce said the experts were in Nigeria with the equipment and other medical items needed to curb the virus. Health minister, Ehanire, had earlier announced that the Chinese medical team would be coming into the country to play advisory role, considering the progress in the fight against COVID-19 in their country. “The Chinese medical experts, comprising doctors, nurses, laboratory technicians and public health managers will share their knowledge, skills and real-life experience of fighting covid-19 with Nigerian personnel to strengthening management of COVID-19 cases, especially with regard to critical care,” the minister stated. The minister also listed the donations being made by some Chinese companies in Nigeria to include PPEs, medical consumables, over 1 million surgical masks for health workers and even ICU ventilators, valued at over $100,000, all sourced in the face of global scarcity of the items. The initiative, Ehanire said, will greatly build the capacity of hard-working and resourceful Nigerian health care workers at the forefront of fighting coronavirus, adding that the much needed PPEs and masks will protect the country’s frontline workers and mitigate the spread of COVID-19 in the line of duty. On confirmed cases in the country, he said, “As of 8th of April, 2020, Nigeria has recorded 254 confirmed COVID-19 cases. Lagos remains the epicentre with 130, with 50 cases in FCT, 20 in Osun, 11 in Edo, 11 in Oyo, 6 in Bauchi, 5 each in Akwa Ibom and Kaduna, 4 in Ogun, 2 each in Enugu, Ekiti, Kwara and Rivers, and 1 each in Benue, Delta, Katsina and Ondo. “The spike in Osun is linked to the arrival of Nigerians to that State from Ecowas countries. Several groups of Nigerians have made similar intentions known to return. “Those discharged from treatment are 44, of which seven are from the UATH center. We unfortunately have 6 corona related fatalities in total. There are presently 204 active cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria. The DG of NCDC will give further details”. But the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday asked Nigerians to hold President Muhammadu Buhari responsible should there be any upsurge in the rate of COVID-19 infection and death in the country following what it described as the importation of doctors from China, the epicenter of the scourge, by the federal government. PDP said it was alarmed that President Buhari ignored the protests by Nigerians and professional bodies, including the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and allowed the importation of the Chinese doctors despite warnings that bringing in doctors from the hotbed of the plague will expose citizens to further risks. The party said this was even as Nigerians across board have continued to question the status, identity and interest of the Chinese doctors as well as the safety of kits and equipment from that country, particularly following scary reports of escalation of the scourge in certain countries reportedly after the arrival of Chinese medical personnel in those countries. A statement by the party’s national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted: “Moreover, our doctors and nurses have been on top of the situation with records of recoveries and less casualties, thus raising questions about the real intentions of bringing in doctors from China. “The situation is even more distressing as the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 had been making frantic effort to exonerate itself from the decision to bring in the Chinese doctors into our country. ”The PDP wants President Buhari to note that Nigerians already know the pace, intensity and trajectory of COVID-19 statistics at the time the Federal Government, which he leads, gave passage to these Chinese doctors. “Nigerians are aware that since the index case was reported till date, our nation’s COVID-19 data stands at 254 confirmed cases, out of which 44 have been successfully treated by our doctors with 6 deaths, which reportedly had other underlining ailments. “Our party therefore calls on the entire world to hold President Buhari responsible should there be any sudden upsurge in COVID-19 infection and deaths in our country, now that the Chinese doctors have been brought in despite protests by Nigerians”. FG Names 5 Banks For COVID-19 Fund Donations, NDIC Commits N1bn Meanwhile, the federal government has announced names of five commercial banks where financial donations regarding the eradication of COVID-19 could be paid into. They are Zenith Bank account number – 1017231692, Access Bank account number – 1385400542, GTBank account number – 0574639933, First Bank of Nigeria account number – 2035403735 and United Bank for Africa account number – 1022761737. According to the government, this is in line with the current administration’s resolve to entrench efficiency, transparency and accountability in public finance management system. A statement signed by the Accountant-general of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, gave the designated collection account name as FGN COVID-19 Eradication Support Account. The AGF further explained that in line with federal government’s financial regulations, the funds will be released by his office to the presidential taskforce on control of COVID-19 according to the exigency of demand. Idris commended individuals and organisations that have so far supported federal government’s effort in eradicating COVID-19, even as he urged good-spirited individuals and organisations that wish to support the government to pay into the designated bank accounts. In the same vein, the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has announced a N1 billion donation to the special pool of fund dedicated for the fight against Coronavirus in the country. The Corporation made the announcement in a statement issued yesterday by its director of communications, Sunday Oluyemi. “The Board of the Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has approved the immediate release of the sum of N1 billion Naira to the COVID-19 Relief Fund being put together to fight against the Corona Virus pandemic in Nigeria,” Oluyemi noted in the statement. The Bankers’ committee led by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), at its emergency tele-conference call meeting on March 30, 2020, had announced that the committee and the private sector had set up an account at the CBN under the auspices of the Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19. The Fund receives contributions from individuals as well as corporate organisations to complement the efforts of the federal government as it strives to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. In approving NDIC’s contribution to the fund, Oluyemi said the Corporation’s board acknowledged that it was not only consistent with its policy on corporate social responsibility (CSR), adding that the proceeds will be utilized in the provision of equipment and urgently needed medical facilities throughout the nation. The donations are for procurement of testing kits, isolation and treatment centers, as well as the provision of Intensive Care Units (ICUs), and molecular testing labs. Catholic Bishops Release 435 Hospitals, Clinics To FG Meanwhile, the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria (CBCN) has offered 435 hospitals and clinics to the presidential taskforce on COVID-19 to combat the coronavirus pandemic. Receiving members of the conference in his office, the PTF chairman and secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, thanked the bishops for making their medical facilities and clinics at the disposal of the taskforce. In a statement issued by his media office, Mustapha commended the conference for the donation, describing the gesture as not only timely but necessary in assisting medical practitioners in their efforts to bring the pandemic to a standstill in the country. The SGF particularly commended the conference for the donation in view of the spread of the health facilities found in several locations across the country, saying it would provide the required assistance to various state governments to leverage on. He said, ‘‘We will continue to work with all faith-based organisations, civil society groups, and all men of goodwill interested in helping out at this time of need.’’ The SGF called on other faith-based groups to speak up and lend a strong voice to the decisions of government, particularly on restriction of movement, so as to halt the spread of the pandemic. The PTF chairman pointed out that coronavirus does not respect religion, tribe, race or status even as he called for all hands to be on deck so as to curtail the spread of the pandemic in the country. Earlier, the president of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria, Most Rev Augustine Obiora Akubeze, who was represented by the Arch Bishop of Abuja Diocese, Ignatius Kaigama, informed the SGF that the conference was with the PTF in prayers. He thanked the federal government for setting up the presidential taskforce with the SGF as its chairman. Akubueze who commended the PTF for various steps it had taken with its marshal plans to curtail further spread of the disease in the country stated that the Conference was donating its hospitals and clinics for use by the PTF as solidarity as well as expression of goodwill. The Conference promised to corporate fully with all decisions of government on COVID-19 so to curtail the spread of the pandemic. 4 Nigerians Detained In Cotonou Over N900,000 Quarantine Fee Meanwhile, four Nigerians have been detained by gendarmes in Cotonou, Republic of Benin, after 14-day quarantine in a hotel in the West African country for refusing to pay N900,000 each for the accommodation facility. The Nigerians who arrived in Cotonou from different parts of Europe and America, it was gathered, were forcefully taken to the hotel by the security officers after they were stopped from continuing their journey to Nigeria by immigration officers who told them that they will only be allowed out of the country if they were certified COVID-19 negative. They were taken to the Benin Royal Hotel allegedly owned by the president of the country against their wish and forced to stay. In a voice mail, one of the detainees locked up in separate cells at an unknown detention camp in a remote part of the town said their ordeal started after they were declared negative for Covid-19. According to him, a bill of N900, 000 was presented to each of them to pay as charges for the accommodation in the hotel for the duration of the quarantine. He said when they declared that they didn’t have such amount of money with them the officials insisted the bill must be paid before they will be allowed to leave the country. He continued: “I was surprised when the police arrived and tried to enforce the order of payment. Later some soldiers joined, dragged us out of the hotel and took us to the detention camp. We were told that the government gave order that foreigner for Covid-19 must pay their bills for Covid -19 quarantine. “I arrive in Cotonou and submitted to their order that I be quarantine for 14 days to prove I was Coronavirus free. I was taken to an office where I saw other Nigerians. They seized our international passports. We protested being forced to stay in that hotel after we got to know we will be responsible for the about N40, 000 per night cost (without food). “The official lodged us into the rooms and handed us over to another set of officers of the state. After the 14 days, we were issued bills to pay. The officials said it was an order by the government that every foreigner must pay”. Appealing to President Muhammadu Buhari to save their lives, he said, “We have spent four days in detention and no sign we will be released. We appeal to Nigerian government to save our lives. We fear they may harm us and claim we are criminals. I cannot afford that amount now and the officials are not listening to us. We don’t even know the name of the place we are being detained. “President Muhammadu Buhari should please intervene and save our lives. We have been confirmed Covid-19 free but the people here are subjecting us to this traumatic treatment”. NCDC Confirms 22 New Cases As Total Confirmed Cases Hits 276 Meanwhile, Nigeria has confirmed 22 new cases of COVID19, bringing the total confirmed cases in the country to 276. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), 15 of the cases were reported in Lagos, four in the FCT, two in Bauchi and one in Edo. “As at 09:00pm 8th April, there are 276 confirmed cases of #COVID19 reported in Nigeria. 44 have been discharged with six deaths. Lagos- 145, FCT- 54, Osun- 20, Oyo- 11, Edo- 12, Bauchi- 8, Akwa Ibom- 5, Kaduna- 5, Ogun- 4, Enugu- 2, Ekiti- 2, Rivers-2, Benue- 1, Ondo- 1, Kwara- 2, Delta- 1 and Katsina-1,” it stated. 