As Nigeria continues to battle the novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) has encouraged Nigerians to utilise the lockdown period to develop their digital skills. He made this call during the commissioning of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Academy Virtual Learning Centre yesterday in Abuja. Speaking at the virtual meeting which had over 136 participants and stakeholders in the IT sector, Pantami said the academy became necessary because things are already changing across the world as a result of the advent of the COVID-19 which has affected 3.1million people and killed 217,000 persons globally and that Nigeria cannot afford to be left behind. According to him, the academy will enable the ministry create a pool of trained and skilled youths; encourage continuous learning  at home, build, upgrade and integrate our capacity among Nigerians as well as bridge the gap between the academia and the industry. For him,  the Academy would  add value to millions of skilled and unskilled Nigerians to prepare them for the Post-COVID-19 economy. “This is commendable, looking at the way the Pandemic has stared changing the way things are being done globally. “With over 3.1million people haven contracted the virus globally and 217,000 dead, it has started changing the world completely. “For the first time we are commissioning a project in Nigeria virtually, this is what COVID-19 has caused.” The academy training which is free to interested and prospective candidates comes in three categories and is meant to  enable public servants to acquire prerequisite  skills they may need to fit into the emerging Post-COVID-19 economy. It also comes with a pack of various courses  that will lead to certification  from CISCO, Oracle, Huawei and even Havard among others. Consequent upon the inherent benefits and the implication of the lockdown  occasioned by COVID-19, the Minister  said the ministry is currently working with NITDA, Galaxy Backbone and other relevant agencies to begin the hosting of future Federal Executive Council meetings virtually through the Academy, pending the approval by the President. He further stated that the ministry had directed NITDA to ensure that they build the capacity of more Nigerians, particular in the area of emerging technologies in line with the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy No.2 . He challenged NITDA to do more by rigorously implement the new policy  to enable them fit into the emerging digital economy. Similarly, he charged students in secondary schools and institutions of higher learning to leverage the platform provided by the NITDA Academy to acquire more skills, insisting that the era when certificate counts over skills is over. “I feel there is no better time to utilize this platform to build peoples’ capacity than now. “It has. So many benefits. I encourage our students in key into this initiative because today, it is no longer about the skills they acquired but about the skills and capacity.” Earlier in his welcome address, the director general of NITDA, Kashifu Inuwa who described the occasion as historic, said it was the first time a public servant would commission a project  virtually in Nigeria. According to him, the Academy was conceptualised to mitigate against the effects of the lockdown occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic. While acknowledging the key role played by the partners effort in making the project a reality, Inuwa said they at NITDA are promoting digital literacy strategy for the  Post-COVID-19 world in line with the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy of President Muhammadu Buhari. The country Manager of CISCO, Mr.  Olakunle Olatimeyi said the launching of the Academy is an important journey for Nigeria not just now  we are faced with COVID-19 but for the future. He advised the ministry to make sure it carries service providers along and offer them subsidy so as to make their services affordable for more Nigerians. Other speakers who gave their goodwill messages include the representatives of Oracle, Huawei, CISCO and heads of agencies under the ministry. The platform is a partnership between NITDA, Microsoft, Oracle, CISCO, Huawei and Harvard University among others. 