Nneka Isaac Moses, the Queen of Tourism, foremost Destination influencer, presenter/producer of the multiple-award-winning TV show; GOGE AFRICA, is our woman of substance this week Background Originally from Ihiala in Anambra State, Nneka completed her A’ Levels at Methodist Girls High School in Ebute Metta, Lagos and the University of Lagos, where she received her first degree in English. She was a scholarship recipient of the World Bank to attend Lagos Business School, where she was trained through professional courses in business, media and tourism. She met Isaac who hails from Enugwu Ukwu (also in Anambra state) in 1996, on the set of a movie produced by Zack Orji titled ‘Love in Vendetta’. They married in 1997.  Thirteen years after, they birthed their son, Kamara. Early career days Nneka learnt to succeed at the feet of her mother who was an entrepreneur, teacher and school proprietress. So, after graduation, she towed the entrepreneurial line with fashion through Akenn G Limited and joined the Fashion Designers Association of Nigeria. Her husband introduced her to the world of the media and together, they have built Goge Africa. “The early days were tough; no one understood or believed in the concept of Goge Africa, which was to promote domestic tourism by projecting our cultural heritage. We did not have funds to execute the project, but we were passionate and determined” Nneka recalls. She and her husband operated Goge Africa on a shoe string budget, using funds from Isaac’s Voice Modelling and Acting career in Nollywood, and the little she raked in from AKENN-G Limited. She says: “Isaac had to voice our scripts, direct, co-present and co-produce with me. While I wrote scripts, curated our costumes and played camera-woman at the festivals we attended.”  Challenges Nneka revealed that their major challenge was finance. This was why they did almost everything by themselves, except editing the raw footage. They handled delivery logistics for their content to the TV stations, solely handled marketing communications to prospective partners and managed all sales activities to media agencies, for advertising support on Goge Africa.  Goge Africa Goge Africa commenced in October 1999 when Metche Isaac Moses decided on a radio show to promote African music. Nneka asked him to go for a TV show instead, so Isaac could model her designs and promote Akenn-G as a fashion brand. At this time, African programmes were not popular on Nigerian TV. Goge Africa was created as a pan-African cultural project. It was conceptualised with the aim of promoting African culture, music, food and way of life, through the television, radio and magazine. The name “Goge Africa” was culled from a musical instrument common among musicians from Northern Nigeria called Goge which means ‘to clean’’ or ‘to wipe off dirt’. Thus, Isaac and Nneka applied this metaphor to “clean the negative image“ of Africa that is usually exported to a global audience. On the 1st of October 1999, Goge Africa premiered on Nigerian TV: African Independent Television (AIT), Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) Channel 10, MITV and Degue Broadcasting Network (DBN).   Later on, it was broadcast on MNET AFRICA MAGIC and other TV stations in three continents around the world. Nneka and Isaac developed Goge Africa’s content by starting coverage in Nigeria, then spreading to Benin Republic, Gambia, Ghana, South Africa, Ethiopia, Egypt, Kenya, Uganda, Sao Tome & Principe and 35 other countries in Africa. Today, over 50 million viewers enjoy the show across the globe. In the past 20 years, Goge Africa has won several awards (locally and internationally) as: Best Culture and Tourism program on TV;  and First among the Top 100 Tour Company in Africa, while Nneka and her husband have been recognised as  Africa’s Tourism Icons. They have been inducted into the Nigerian Broadcasters Hall of Fame and awarded Young Peace Ambassadors by the Universal Peace Federation – a testimony to their hard work, resilience and success. When asked if they regret their career choices, Nneka exclaimed, “I love what we do because we are condemned to a lifetime of holiday. These trips help us relive our honeymoon again and again! We receive the best of hospitality from most of the countries that we have visited. Last year, we visited Senegal and were lodged in the best hotels there … all the locations we explore gift us food and tourism services at no cost.” In celebration of Goge Africa’s 20th birthday, the Tourism duo has collaborated with the Royal Caribbean International, a luxury cruise liner who invited them to explore the tourism potential of Puerto Rico, Saint Maarten and Labadee Island in Haiti, as well as Florida in the USA. It was an all-expense paid trip to paradise and back! There are new grounds concerning 20 Must Visit Destinations TV & online series of Goge Africa, Tourism Training, Anniversary contests, Art and Photo Exhibitions and Anniversary Gala and Award Evening. Nneka summarises the ‘Goge Africa Bliss’ when she smiled through her own words: “It’s been a wonderful journey of two decades in the business of travel, culture and tourism. Achieving our mission of being the number one gateway into Africa’s heritage was successful because Goge Africa comprises a team of highly skilled professionals with experience in their different spheres. We have been able to attract only the best minds and hands. This has helped us master our craft explore our art and push for quality, excellence and value without compromising our African authenticity. Because we see the big picture of transcendently preserving our culture, we deliver Africa’s local content excellently.”  Philanthropy Our giveback project is orchestrated through Goge Africa Foundation, the immediate community program which helps us to build tomorrow’s leaders today. We implement this goal by equipping young Africans with the right attitude, mind-set and belief systems that will generate a passion for positive change.  Mentoring For Nneka, mentoring means guiding a protégée on the right path towards achievable goals. She attributes her mentorship to God, and her mother as her role model – a school proprietress, teacher and a businesswoman, who also owned a tailoring institute. Nneka’s mother wore the gown of responsibility very early, as she was required to support the family “as the Adah”, after Nneka’s grandfather passed on. Nneka believes this was where her industrious spirit emanated from. She passes on this spirit of industry and economic value to African youths through Goge Africa Foundation. Inspiration According to Nneka, “I am inspired by life and people”. She paused. “The cliffs and valleys of life stimulate my thought process into progressive action; while the complicated nature of people I have met and perhaps will meet, constantly spur my creative energy into being”. Legacy I would love to be remembered for believing in Africa, well enough to promote its varied cultures and tourism potential, as a business. This I do with the one I love.