…Recall how similar situation was managed in 2017E Economicand financial experts have urged the federal government to continue to add more items on the exclusion list for foreign exchange in an effort to cut back demand for dollars once the lockdown is lifted in an effort to support the naira. They also urged the government to adopt the same approach as was done in 2017 when Professor Yemi Osinbajo was the acting president when he directed the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to maintain a consistent intervention in the forex market which boosted liquidity in the economy by opening another forex window different from the official rate window. In 2017, the Naira depreciated against the Dollar following global economic down-turn as it went to exchange way over N520 to $1. There was a scarcity of US dollars at the time, which is needed by importers. The scarcity triggered sharp depreciation of the naira with the exchange rate rising to N520 per dollar in February 2017, while the gap between the official exchange rate and the parallel market rate rose to 70 percent. Osinbajo then asked the CBN to inject millions of dollars into the market to help stabilise the naira on the foreign-exchange market. The result was that the Naira appreciated in value and was trading at slightly above N360 to $1 at the parallel market afterwards. A remarkable step taken by the CBN at the time was the introduction of the Investors and Exporters (I&E) forex window that allows investors and exporters to purchase and sell foreign exchange at the prevailing market rate. And it was Osinbajo as Acting President that got the CBN to introduce the I&E window. Prior to the introduction of the I&E window on April 2017, the nation’s foreign exchange market was bedevilled with acute shortage of supply of foreign exchange due to apathy of foreign investors who exited the nation’s financial markets in droves in the wake of the sharp decline in the nation’s external reserve caused by sharp decline in crude oil prices between starting from July 2014. Foreign exchange traders and analysts envisage a spike in pressure on the naira. There has been increased pressure on the naira despite the lockdown in major cities in the country as the value of the naira declined to N450 to the dollar at the parallel market and N425 at the Bureau de change end of the forex market. The CBN had suspended the twice weekly sales of foreign exchange to BDC operators since the lockdown began in late March 2020. At the Investors and Exporters window, the value of the naira has been under pressure hovering between N383 and N390 to the dollar. Analysts believe that once the lockdown is lifted and economic activities pick up, there would be increased demand. According to a forex expert, Jamiu Hamisu ‘‘In 2016, the Naira began depreciating against the Dollar following global economic down-turn. The Naira went to exchange way over N520 to $1. But, when Osinbajo became acting President, Nigerians saw the dollar crashing to exchange at less than ₦455 to $1. But this was equally as a result of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s intervention in Forex. ‘‘During the period, Osinbajo took some far-reaching economic measures to prop up the country’s currency, the naira. There was a scarcity of US dollars at the time, which is needed by importers. So, he asked the Central Bank to inject millions of dollars into the market to help stabilise the naira on the foreign-exchange market. “On February 16, 2017, he presided over the first National Economic Council meeting of the year and directed the CBN to review the foreign exchange policy. The meeting also resolved that fresh $250 million be injected into the Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF). The CBN subsequently released about $500 million through the interbank market, where the 23 banks bought $371m.The government need to adopt the same measures which I believe will strengthen the naira.’’ However, with the oil price down to its lowest with no hope for respite soon and a depleting foreign exchange reserves, analysts believe there would be increased demand for foreign exchange putting more pressure on the reserves. The 30-days moving average of the external reserves of the country has declined to $33.625 billion as at April 22, 2020 down from $38 billion which it was in January this year. A foreign exchange trader, Patrick Oga noted that the major instruments to ensure naira stability is the oil price and reserves “and these two today are shaking. The best the CBN can do is to continue to hold the naira. The only place we can see naira depreciation is at the parallel market and the BDC, so what they will continue to do is to put them under control. They have stopped selling dollars to BDCs now which had accounted for the shallow depreciation that we have seen in the external reserves. Also, a financial analyst, Fred Balogun said: “Once all of this is over, they will commence selling to them to moderate the volatility in that market so what they will continue to do is to use same foreign exchange management policies and add some other things to the exclusion list. So, what they will continue to do is to use forex demand management policy while they try to whip the BDC under control.” “The case for further Naira re-pricing is strong. Nigeria is facing a twin deficit crisis across its fiscal and current account books and these deficits are likely to get wider with the weak oil price and production. “The sad part is that we are not seeing enough inflows via the financial accounts that can help bridge the gap in the current account of the balance of payment,” he said. In the same vein, an investment analyst at a leading investment bank explained in details why the dollar is having a stronghold on the naira, she said: “Currently, more than 60% of foreign bank reserves are denominated in U.S dollars. It is also tagged as a haven currency as it is perceived to be less risky compared to holding local currencies (which during crises experience capital outflows) and often appreciates in a period of economic downturn. Because it is considered a haven during times of global economic uncertainty, the demand for dollars can often persist despite fluctuations in the performance of the U.S. economy, hence we see investors take shelter in the U.S. currency, given the current blow dealt on world economies by the COVID-19 pandemic.” Meanwhile, the CBN has started the $100 million weekly dollar sales to parents for the payment of their children’s school fees abroad and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) to enable operators make essential imports.