The Nigerian Armed Forces said that  its troops deployed for Operation Delta Safe to protect oil facilities have rescued 15 kidnap victims, recovered barges, boats, arms and stolen crude oil in different operations. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations Major General John Enenche in a statement said troops of Sector 2 while on routine patrol at Nembe Owelesu, Bayelsa State encountered sea robbers at Abuja Open Water-Nembe. He said the Sea robbers on sighting the troop’s gunboats escaped into the creeks leaving behind 15 persons held hostage in five speed boats. In a similar operations,troops of the Nigerian Navy Ship Pathfinder, acting on a tip off on 23 April 2020 intercepted and arrested 3 Barges (MV Rock 1, JULIANAH and an unnamed barge) laden with illegally refined Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) at AGIP waterfront for suspected involvement in illegal bunkering activities. He said the team also arrested another barge  laden with suspected stolen crude oil around Okochiri River entrance. In another operation, troops of Sector 3, operation Delta Safe raided four Illegal refining sites  along Dema Abby-Oputumbi-Nanabie-Promise Land-Otobie and Ogono general area. “Items discovered and appropriately handled, include 7 boilers, 9 storage tanks, 8 metal tanks, one dugout reservoir all filled with stolen crude oil, 8 metal tanks, 18 metal drums, 11 reservoir tanks filled with illegally refined AGO and Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK). Also, 2 empty Cotonou boats, 1 generator set, 1 pumping machine, 2 welding machines, 1 filing machine, rolls of hose, and 1 speedboat mounted with 75 HP engine (use for illegal bunkering activities) were also discovered within the sites,” he said. Furthermore, he said troops of Sector 3 on patrol also intercepted a barge laden with suspected illegally refined AGO around Orutoru general area of Rivers State. In related development,  he said following intelligence report, troops of Headquarters Operation Delta Safe on 25 April 2020 discovered and appropriately handled an Illegal refining site at Uzere community at Isoko North LGA of Delta State.  Also on 23 April 2020, troops of Sector 2 Operation Delta Safe deployed along KCTL pipeline at Odau Community in Abua/Odual LGA of Rivers State arrested three suspected  pipeline vandals around Shell Petroleum Development Company pipeline.  “Overall, a total of 3 weapons were recovered, 48 illegal refineries, 28 surface metal storage tanks, 60 cooking ovens and 18 Cotonou boats amongst others were discovered while about 58,500 liters of  DPK, 11, 750 liters of PMS, 855,900 liters of AGO and an estimated 1, 507,000 liters of crude oil were seized by troops,” he said.  The coordinator said all rescued victims, recovered items and arrested suspects are to be handed over to the appropriate authorities at the end of preliminary investigation.