Lafarge Africa Plc, a leading Sub-Saharan Africa building materials company, a subsidiary of LafargeHolcim, a world leader in building materials, has revealed it has recorded a strong net income improvement in 2019. This was made known by the CEO of Lafarge Africa, Khaled El Dokani, during a chat with journalists in Lagos. He said: “Our turnaround and cost-reduction strategy in FY 2019 and the divestment of the South African business, have delivered strong results. The decrease in net debt has significantly strengthened our balance sheet and has placed us in a vantage position to face the future.” According to him, “Over-proportionate net income growth by 1.9x vs LY − Net debt reduced from N288.9bn to N37.1bn (-87.2% vs LY) further to the divestment from South Africa and successful rights issue in 2019 − Proposed dividend of N1.00 per share.” Giving the outlook for 2020, he said projected the Nigerian cement industry growth momentum is expected to slow down in FY 2020 compared to 2019 on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic and the challenging global macro-economic environment. He, however, said Lafarge Africa has taken the necessary measures to protect the health of its employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders as the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic now impacts Nigeria. “The construction sector and construction sites are generally more resilient than other sectors and Lafarge Africa has a strengthened balance sheet and is well equipped to weather the storm. However, we are closely monitoring the evolving situation and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Nigerian market. We have launched an action plan “HEALTH, COST & CASH” and will continue to focus on the implementation of our cost optimization initiatives during this period to minimize the impact on the business,” he added. A statement by the company’s director, communications, public affairs and sustainable development, Folashade Ambrose-Medebem, said Lafarge Africa Plc. Is a leading Sub-Saharan Africa building materials company is a subsidiary of LafargeHolcim, a world leader in building materials. Listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Lafarge Africa is actively participating in the urbanization and economic growth of Nigeria, the largest economy in Africa. 