The Global Peace Foundation (GPF) in Nigeria has commended Government’s Measures to contain COVID-19. This is even as the Foundation calls on those with the responsibilities of sharing Palliatives to the less privilege to do so by treating beneficiaries equally. In a statement signed by the GPF, Nigeria, Country Director, Rev Joseph John Hayab, it read “Our organization stands in support of the drastic measures taken by the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Presidential Committee on COVID-19 and the state Governors fighting against the spread of Corona Virus pandemic which has killed thousands of people all over the world and is spreading very fast”. He further appealed to those given the responsibility to distribute palliatives to the less privileged citizens to do so by treating them equally as members of One Family Under God wherever they are in Nigeria In his words “We wish to see the nation’s leaders making good use of this trying time as an opportunity for them to further strengthen human values and consolidate the peace we so desire to move our country forward” As an NGO with a value-based approach to peace building, we call on all Nigerians to respect and obey the “Stay at Home” order by the government as the order was for our own good. He added that “We are endeavoured to observe personal hygiene of washing of hands and practice social and physical distancing as the sure ways of curbing the spread of the disease”. “While we collectively act in unison to bring the spread of COVID-19 to a stop, as One Family Under God, we call on all to work as a family for a peaceful society, irrespective of ethnic or religious affinities, promoting common humanity” The Country Director noted that while the virus does not discriminate on the basis of religion, ethnic origin or any form of identity. Coronavirus is killing human beings without discrimination and has brought hardship and hunger to all class of people he stated “We, therefore, beseech our fellow citizens to obey health advice given by health workers and the government” “We also challenge our political leaders to rise to the call to improve the health system, providing purposeful and equitable leadership at this time for our people”. Reverend Hayab said the Global Peace Foundation (GPF) is an international non-sectarian, non-partisan, nonprofit organization, which promotes an innovative, values-based approach to peacebuilding, guided by the vision of One Family under God. We are willing to work together with our governments, at both Federal, States and Local Government levels, to unite our citizens at this trying period of our nation and world at large. Above all, GPF acknowledges and appreciates the untiring efforts of health workers, the world over, that put their lives on the line, and the people that made an immense sacrifice to help victims of the coronavirus pandemic. We love you and reckon that you are the real heroes of the moment. Our organization has joined others in the vanguard of public enlightenment and will continue to contribute in whatever ways to sensitize and support humanity in this difficult period. .