The UFUK Dialogue, a foundation dedicated to promoting dialogue, culture of coexistence, and mutual understanding in Nigeria, has held an online prayer session for Nigeria to unify the voices of religious leaders in prayer for Nigeria and the whole world to be able to contain the Coronavirus pandemic. In a statement by Emrah Ilgen of UFUK Dialogue, he stated that the online prayer session tagged “NigeriaPrays” is the first of the series where religious leaders from various faiths came together to pray for Nigeria in this critical point of its existence. “As many of our places of worship are forced to close their doors – to help contain the spread of the Coronavirus, we believe in facilitating an inclusive, unifying moment for humanity. The outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic across the globe has reinforced the need for humanity to stay united in our shared values towards halting the further spread of this pandemic.” He also stated that through “NigeriaPrays,” it hopes for a better world of togetherness and unity and to illustrate the power of prayer/reflection in this trying period. “We hope for a better world of togetherness and unity to illustrate the power of prayer/reflection in this trying period. We also want to recognize sacrifices made by essential health workers as they give their best towards the containment of the further spread of the Coronavirus.” During the event, those that led prayer sessions included. His Eminence John Cardinal Onaiyekan, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu (Secretary-General Jamatul Nasril Islam), Sheik Abdul Rahman Ahmad (Chief Missioner, Ansaruddeen Society of Nigeria). Most Rev. (Dr.) Joseph Oche Job (Methodist Arch Bishop of Abuja), Abubakar Siddeeq Muhammad (Islamic Scholar and Columnist), and Arc Bishop John Praise Daniel (Dominion Chapel Intl Churches). The various clerics took turns to pray for God’s intervention in the cause of humanity to bring the miseries surrounding COVID-19 to an end. In his remark, Cardinal John Onaiyekan commended UFUK Dialogue for putting together the “NigeriaPrays” session as it would avail Nigerians the opportunity to stay united in prayers in this critical period. Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu (Secretary-General Jamatul Nasril Islam), as well as other clerics, appreciated the UFUK Dialogue for the initiative and expressed their willingness to be part of subsequent series. UFUK Dialogue has been active in Nigeria over the years, promoting dialogue, a culture of coexistence, and mutual understanding by establishing a common platform aiming information and opinion exchange. The Foundation focuses on dialogue and peace activities in academic and intellectual levels through conferences, seminars, panels, common projects, publications, meetings, intercultural trips, and several other events.
Its flagship programmes are the annual International Conference on Love and Tolerance, countering violent extremism in Nigeria, and the Dialogue & Peace Award Ceremony, which emphasized the importance of dialogue and peace between different religions and countries.