Huawei Technologies has raised concerns over proposed US restriction on chip-making equipment, saying it would adversely affect Africa. This was disclosed by the director of Media Affairs, Huawei Southern Africa Region, Edison Xie. He said the new measures would also restrict the global supply of chips to Huawei Technologies, at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic impacts economic growth around the world. Under the proposed rule change, foreign companies that use U.S. chip-making equipment would be required to obtain a U.S. license before supplying certain chips to Huawei. In 2019, the global market for semiconductors was projected to shrink by 12% due to growing economic uncertainties from the U.S.-China trade war. This year’s COVID-19 pandemic is further shaking up the global semiconductor industry. A new IDC report says the semiconductor industry will fall by 6%. The proposed move by some U.S. officials will create more uncertainties in the global industry of semiconductor, the centrepiece of ICTs that transform society for the better. “These technologies which enable new technologies like artificial intelligence, 5G, and the Internet of Things, have been playing a critical role in Africa’s social-economic development. When the COVID-19 pandemic is behind us, ICTs and the digital economy will also play a crucial role in economic recovery,” he added. He also explained that the new measures would undermine the basic principles of international trade. He said, “If we look closely at the proposed change of rules, we can see that it aims for imposing restrictions on the use of equipment that has already been sold. “The post-sale rules change will ultimately erode trust in the global supply chain, nullifying established norms and regulations overnight. Needless to say, Africa will also be the victim. “The global semiconductor value chain has taken decades to build. Semiconductor modules are highly interdependent, and no company or country can build up a comprehensive supply chain on its own. If these new rules were to take effect, even if merely one piece of US-origin equipment, say a screwdriver purchased from the US years ago, was used at any step in the production of chips, chipmakers outside of the US would have to seek approval from the US government.” Xie warned against further deterioration of the already hard-hit global economy, saying that the world needs an open, collaborative, and stable global value chain. “The global semiconductor sector market offers Africa opportunities not to be missed. With a massive growth in technology hubs across the continent-growing over 50% in the last several years, Africa needs to have a share in global semiconductors industry, to secure its competitiveness in the future,” he added.