Cross River State Government has called on to the Nigeria Centre for Disease and Control (NCDC) and the Federal Government to come to the aide of the state with regards to establishment of test and isolation centres in the state. Chairman for  the state response team on COVID 19, Dr. Betta Edu made the call  Sunday in Calabar, while giving update to journalists on battle to prevent spread of the disease in the  state. She said that for now the state has been battling to contain the spread of the disease in the state despite the limited financial/ human resources available to the state. Edu who also doubles as the Cross River State Commissioner for Health averred that the battle to contain the spread of the disease with limited financial/ human resources isn’t an easy one. “As a state we need adequate resources to meet up so that we don’t fizzle out in the middle of the battle. Edu dispelled the allegations making the rounds by some individuals that state government received N240m from federal government to fight COVID 19. “I have seen various reports that the state received N240m from federal government. “Cross River State has not receive a dime from NCDC or federal government to fight Corona virus. The COVID 19 chairman stated “We are appealing not just because we are Cross River, but because we are right now at the middle of the action. “Being a state that is being surrounded by neighboring states like Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi, Benue and the republic of Cameroon, who are already battling to contain the spread of the disease, it will be fool hardy for us to fold our hands and allow the disease over power us”. Edu maintained. “As a state, we are in dire need of ventilators, surveillance, isolation and testing centres. “We have being struggling to cope with the fight against spread of the virus into our state. “It’s really not easy collecting samples from Cross River and send the sample to Irua in another state for test” Edu stated. She said that the response team has concluded arrangements to embark on active case search stressing that if that is achieved the team will embark on random search to unravel cases which are yet to be known. “We need financial preventive, palliative, security agent at the border, bigger isolation centres and so on. 