LADOL has joined private sector coalition fight against the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Nigeria as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. This development was confirmed by the company’s Chairman, Mr. Ladi Jadesimi who disclosed that a donation has been made to Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN in this regard. In response to enquiries on the company’s CSR initiatives during COVID-19 pandemic, the Chairman stated that the company joined the coalition because they believe this government is on the right track and is handling this crisis well – in fact, as confirmed by the United Nations, the Government of Nigeria’s response has been one of the best in the world He also confirmed that in addition to this donation LADOL is providing food and PPE for their staff and the local community – with food and protective kits being distributed to the local community. “We want to support the local communities to ensure that they can stay at home and follow governments advice,” he said adding “I wish that  all Nigerians can come together at this time and support each other so we can come through this stronger than ever.” The Chairman LADOL has emphasised the need for local production and support of local companies stating “over 80 per cent of the jobs in Nigeria come from Small and Medium Sized Enterprises, they must be supported to get through this pandemic” “Nigerians and all Africans need to be patient and preserver – we can get through this together. At 78 years of age, I have seen Nigeria come through many challenges, but this is an exceptional one. However, I know that Nigerians have the fortitude to triumph through adversity.” One thing I have learned building LADOL is that patience and perseverance are needed to succeed – private sector would need to coordinate closely with government and we should understand that our support will be needed for the long-term – as getting through this crisis will be a marathon not a sprint,” he said. He urged Nigerians to stop listening to fake news and advised that only credible organisations and the Federal and State Government advice should be followed. 