The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has cautioned against impunity by security agents in the enforcement of the federal government’s directive on the containment of COVID-19 in the country. It also said that it stands in solidarity with the government and Nigerians over the pandemic which has posed serious public health challenges worldwide. NHRC, in a statement issued yesterday by the executive secretary, Tony Ojukwu, urged the government to take measures to stem the tide of the disease to protect the right to health and life of the people. Ojukwu commended the efforts of the various health workers who have exhibited professional and patriotic zeal to contain the virus and ensure the safety of all Nigerians and also recognised the efforts of patriotic Nigerians and businesses who have risen to the challenge to contribute resources to fight the scourge. He further asked the Presidential and State Task Forces on Covid-19 to ensure accountability, transparency and inclusiveness, making sure that no one is left behind especially vulnerable groups like IDPs, refugees, persons with disability, almajiris, orphaned children, the aged and single headed households etc. The statement reads in part: “The Commission notes that the Federal and State Governments have in attempt to control the spread of this pandemic, employed some restrictive measures including total lockdown in some cases. “These measures are directed at public safety and health and therefore should not in any way be abused by those charged with the responsibility of enforcing the directives. “We appeal to law enforcement agencies across the country to ensure that they carry out their lawful duties in this regard without undue violation of the rights of Nigerians. “In particular, any act of torture, cruel inhuman and other degrading treatments should not be employed in enforcing compliance. Any arrest connected to implementation of the Covid-19 lockdown directives must be treated in accordance with national and international best practices. “For the purposes of clarity, Article 2 of the Convention Against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading or Punishment which Nigeria is a signatory, states that ‘each state party shall take effective, administrative, judicial or other measures to prevent acts of torture in any territory under its jurisdiction’. “No exceptional circumstances whatsoever, whether a state of war, a threat of war, international political instability or any other public emergency, may be invoked as a justification of torture’. “Accordingly, Nigeria in 2017 passed the Anti Torture Act which makes it a criminal offence in Nigeria for any law enforcement agent to deploy torture in the discharge of law enforcement duties. The Commission therefore calls on the security agencies to refrain from applying any form of torture or punishment that will further inflict pains on the already traumatised members of the public. Enforcement of Covid-19 lookdown directives must be carried out without torture, inhuman and degrading treatment of Nigerians.”