The Delta State government, Deputy State President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, and the minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN), have demanded a probe into the violence that erupted in Warri, yesterday. The incident was allegedly prompted by the purported killing of young man by a soldier for allegedly violating the stay-at-order of the state government. The commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, in a statement he issued in Asaba, said that the government was worried about the re- port of the alleged killing of a 28-year-old-man in Warri by security agents a patrol duty. The commissioner said that the state government has sent a delegation to the deceased family to condole with them over the loss of their son. He stated that the military authorities had been contacted to carry out an investigation into what led to the killing of the deceased. The victim, Joseph Pessu, was said to be driving towards the Warri NPA from Ubeji when soldiers enforcing the lockdown directive flagged him down for a check and identification but he allegedly failed to stop. It was learnt that the military men chased him to the Ogunu flyover area where he jumped from the unnumbered Toyota Camry after using his vehicle to block the road to prevent military men from arresting him. The victim who ran into the bush in the area was, however, shot by one of the soldiers and he reportedly died on the spot. In his reaction, Omo-Agege condemned the killing of Pessu by men of the Nigerian Army enforcing the stay-at-home order of the Delta State government. While describing the incident as extra-judicial killing, Senator Omo-Agege called for the arrest and prosecution of the culprit (s) to serve as a deterrent to others. Omo-Agege, who spoke directly with the Army and Police authorities in the state, called on the residents to desist from taking the laws into their hands as being reported in some quarters. In a statement issued by his special adviser, Media and Publicity, Yomi Odunuga, the deputy Senate president said that he had tasked the authorities to fish out those responsible and pun- ish them in accordance with the laws of the land. Also, Keyamo condemned the killings of innocent persons by the soldiers in Warri. Keyamo, in a statement personally signed by him, described the killing as barbaric, noting that the soldiers ought to have exercised restraint when dealing with the civilian populace. He, thereby, vowed to petition relevant authorities to investigate the killing and bring the perpetrators to book.