The Nigerian military said its  Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole, has neutralised several Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) and destroyed a logistics facility within the heart of the Sambisa forest in Borno State. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, said the feat was achieved in an air interdiction mission executed on April 16,  2020, as part of ongoing operation to destroy the terrorists’ capabilities before they can be brought to bear against land forces and other targets. He noted that the air strike was conducted after series of day and night intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) missions confirmed that makeshift structures, hidden under the dense vegetation of the area, were being used by the terrorists to store their logistics as well as house their fighters. “Consequently, the Air Task Force dispatched its fighter jets to attack the hideout, leading to the destruction of some of the structures as well as the killing of several terrorists. Post-strike battle damage assessment showed the logistics facility engulfed in flames,” he said Meanwhile the Nigerian military as part of efforts to support other agencies of the federal government to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic has established two military laboratories to carry out test for COVID-19. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, who disclosed this during a press conference in Abuja to update Nigerians on the ‘’Preparedness of Armed Forces of Nigeria on COVID-19,’’ while reacting to reports that Nigerian security agents enforcing COVID-19 lockdown have killed more citizens than the deadly virus, described such claims as fake. He rather called on sponsors of the claims to come up with evidence, adding that all operations for COVID-19 is a joint operation by all security agencies in the country. Enenche named the testing centres as the Defence Reference Laboratory in Abuja and Nigerian Air Force Reference Laboratory in Lagos. Enenche also restated the commitment of the armed forces to provide all required assistance to civil authorities at all levels. According to him, ‘’It is worthy to point out here that all the six geo-political zones are covered by the Armed Forces of Nigeria, that is army, navy and air force formations by the 21 designated isolation centres. Further to this, the 80 trained medical personnel are already deployed at our formations for engagement.’’