The apex northern socio-cultural organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) yesterday commended President Muhammadu Buhari on the measures he has taken to tackle the outbreak of coronavirus in the country. In a statement issued by the national publicity secretary of ACF, Emmanuel Yawe, the northern body urged residents to obey the federal government’s instruction pending the discovery of a cure for the disease. ACF also commended the efforts of the Nigerian Private Sector Coalition which organised a successful launching against Covid-19 during which billions of Naira was raised to support the war against virus. The statement reads: “The Arewa Consultative Forum wishes to commend President Muhamadu Buhari for the outline of measures, he announced on Sunday to be taken by the federal government in the face of the global pandemic known as corornavirus. “The various regulations intended to maintain the principle of social distance may sound harsh especially to residents of Lagos, Abuja and Ogun states. Even so, we call on the residents of these places to obey the instructions of the federal government more so when there is no alternative in the form of treatment yet discovered for the ailment” “The Forum also wishes to commend the efforts of the Nigerian Private Sector Coalition which organized a successful launching against COVID -19 during which billions of Naira was raised to support the war against coronavirus.“ The forum however added that as commendable as the efforts of the organised private sector are, there is need to track the money so far raised because similar funds raised by noble minded people to fight equally noble causes in the country “have on several occasions been subjected to criminal abuse to the amazement of all patriots.” ACF added, “The forum believes that the funds should be applied mainly for developing the required infrastructure in which Nigeria is solely deficient and without which we cannot have the capacity to fight the pandemic. “The forum believes that coronavirus is global pandemic and calls on all Nigerians to see it so. Nigerians should not read local ethnic, political or religious meanings into it’s emergence” the statement said. Meanwhile, former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark has urged Nigerians to join forces with federal and state governments in the total battle against the dreaded disease called Coronavirus code named COVID-19. Senator Mark said the unabating spread of the virus reinforces the urgent need for all citizens to comply with the Stay-at-home Order including observation of personal hygiene, regular washing of hands and the application of hand sanitizer to curtail the spread. In a statement on the lockdown in some parts of the country as one of the measures to contain the scourge, Senator Mark urged citizens to accept the discomfort and cooperate with authorities in order to curtail and ultimately end the virus. The former Senate helmsman urged the Federal Government to work out modalities towards palliatives for citizens in order to ameliorate the pains of the lockdown like it is done in other countries affected by the pandemic. He however enjoined authorities especially the Law Enforcement Agencies to apply the internationally accepted standards of enforcement by respecting the human rights procedures, the rule of law and operating with human face. He said: “It is necessary to observe all safety measures on both sides so that we would not unwittingly create more problems rather than solving them. After all, the whole essence is the safety of all”. He reminded authorities that the primary objective of government is the welfare and security of the citizenry, a task he described as sacred and covenant with the people. Senator Mark expressed optimism that the scourge would be surmountable only if all citizens comply with the preventive measures no matter the discomfort saying “it is better to be inconvenienced temporarily than the consequences of the virus”.