More tributes yesterday trickled in for the late Mallam Abba Kyari, with the United Nations (UN), state governors, former military president, General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd) and some other eminent Nigerians joining the list of those who sent their condolence messages to President Muhammadu Buhari on the death of his chief of staff. Kyari died on Friday at the age of 67 following complications from coronavirus at a private hospital in Lagos. The late chief of staff who had tested positive to coronavirus three weeks ago was buried yesterday. He was put in the ground at about 11:22am at the military cemetery, Gudu, Abuja, after funeral prayers at his residence. The resident and humanitarian coordinator of the United Nations System in Nigeria, Edward Kallon, yesterday expressed condolences to President Buhari on the demise of his chief of staff. In a letter of condolence to the president, the top UN official said, ‚‘Malam Abba Kyari‘s dedication, patriotism, and service to your presidency and to Nigeria stood him out as a trustworthy aide and confidant. “These qualities he exhibited to his last days, and I join you in taking solace in the fact that he passed away in the full service to this great nation‘, a statement by presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina further quoted the letter. The president of the United Nations General Assembly, Ambassador (Prof) Tijjani Muhammad-Bande also sent a condolence letter to President Buhari. Also, former military president, General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd) yesterday consoled President Buhari over the death of Mallam Kyari, saying he was a very dedicated, conscientious, forthright, roundly qualified, astute and patriotic servant of Nigeria. In a letter of condolence to the president, Babangida said, “As Chief of Staff he preoccupied himself to always stand by you as a loyal Staff, a friend and an Adviser who always answered the call to duty. “He was ready to always render you necessary support in line with the policy principles and objectives of your administration. I have no iota of doubt that Abba had performed all his tasks creditably to your absolute satisfaction believing in his capacity and competency. “He was honest, simple, humble and transparent, always putting the people, the nation and your good self in all his actions and duties. Undoubtedly you and his family will miss Abba the most. As Muslims we believe and accept that we shall all return to Allah, the Supreme Giver of Life. “It is the wish of the Almighty that Abba had completed his life here on earth. It is stated in the Traditions of our beloved Prophet Muhammad, that whosoever dies as a result of an epidemic affliction is a martyr and I fervently pray so it shall be for Abba. I pray that Allah will accord him the reward and honour as a martyr. “Additionally Abba also passed on one of the most auspicious days for Muslims, namely Friday. You have lost a great ally, friend, admirer, and compatriot who served you and the nation with extreme loyalty and patience. “Mr President, I urge you, as a committed Muslim with depth of faith and as a gallant military officer who fought to unite this country, to please remain steadfast in the challenging tasks heaved upon you, our country and people by the COVID-19 epidemic and its effects on our nation and people. I pray for the quick end of this deadly scourge.” Adesina further noted that among those who also called or sent letters were former the governors of Rivers, Nyesom Wike; Enugu, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi; Yobe, Mai Mala Buni; Taraba, Darius Dickson Ishaku and the president’s classmates who enrolled in 1953 into the Katsina Middle School, through their leader Senator Abba Ali. He added that President Buhari also received messages from the global network of Editors, the International Press Institute (IPI); the president of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, Mustapha Isa; the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero; the patriarch of the Dantata family in Kano, Alhaji Aminu Dantata; the leader of the Izala religious movement in Nigeria, Alhaji Bala Lau and deputy majority leader of the Senate, Bala Ibn Na’Allah. He listed others to include Nigerian Ambassador to the USA, Justice Sylvanus Adiewere Nsofor; Emir of Zamfara, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Attahiru Muhammad Ahmad; Senator Umaru Kurfi; Burhan Karabult, Nigeria’s Turkish partner in the Defence Industries Corporation (DICON), Professor James Momoh; vice chairman of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission and renowned Kano preacher, Ustashi Tijjani Bala Kalarawi. President Buhari also called Borno State governor, Prof Babagana Zulum and some leading traditional rulers of Borno State, including district head of Banki and elder brother of his late chief of staff, Zanna Baba Shehu Arjinoma, to offer his condolences. In a telephone conversation, the president commiserated with the head of the family and members;  Shehu of Borno, Shehu Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai El-Kanemi and Shehu of Bama, Shehu Kyari ibn Umar ibn Ibrahim Elkenemi. A statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu quoted President Buhari as describing the death of his late chief of staff as a shared loss. He urged the government and people of Borno State, members of the family to take solace in the fact that Malam Kyari lived a life worthy of example. He said, “Abba was the very best of us. He was made of the stuff that makes Nigeria great.”  Nigeria Has Lost A Great Administrator, Say Obaseki, Etsu Nupe Also, Edo State governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki and Etsu Nupe and chairman of Niger State Council of Traditional Rulers, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, yesterday mourned the death of chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, the late Mallam Abba Kyari. In a statement by his spokesman, Crusoe Osagie, Governor Obaseki described Kyari as a true Nigerian patriot who was committed to the Nigeria project. He said he received the news of the passing of Abba Kyari with sadness, adding that it was a personal loss. The governor noted: “Having associated with Abba Kyari for over two decades, I found him to be a complete gentleman, very intellectual and a true Nigerian patriot. “He was a forthright man, who was resolute in his conviction and loyal to any cause he believed in. “I admire how he stood with President Muhammadu Buhari through thick and thin. I, therefore, express my personal condolences and that of Edo people to President Buhari, who we know will also miss Abba Kyari greatly”. The governor also commiserated with the Kyari family, praying that God grants them the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. On his part, the Etsu Nupe, in a statement he personally signed and made available to journalists, described the death of Abba Kyari, as a great loss to the nation. Alhaji Abubakar said that Nigeria has lost a fine and dedicated gentleman, a patriot and reliable administrator who was always mindful of his duties and responsibilities. According to him, the late Chief of Staff would be remembered for his exemplary leadership, effectiveness in service, dedication and loyalty while carrying out the duties and responsibilities of his office. He said, “I wish to, on behalf of myself and entire people of Bida Emirate, express our heartfelt condolences to Mr President, the family of the deceased as well as the government and people of his home state, Borno and indeed the entire nation over this great loss.” The Royal father prayed Almighty Allah to grant the deceased chief of staff Aljannat Firdaus and give his family and the nation the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss with calm.  Kyari Was Instrumental To Executive, Legislative Good Relationship – Lawan The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, in a special tribute yesterday said the late president Muhammadu Buhari‘s chief of staff, Abba Kyari, worked hard in fostering mutual respect and understanding between the executive and the legislative arms of government. Lawan who said some misunderstood Abba Kyari to be a power monger, said the late chief of staff, on several occasions personally delivered official communication from the president which shows how serious and dedicated he was to ensuring a good relationship between the executive and the legislature. In a special tribute tittled, „Abba Kyari: A Bridge-builder In Government Makes His Exit,“ which he personally signed, Lawan said Mallam Kyari appreciated the desire of the ninth National Assembly to work with the Executive in an atmosphere devoid of unhelpful suspicions and bickering, and which does not compromise the integrity and independence of either arm or denude their roles. He stated: „He deployed his administrative skills and natural patience to ensure that the two arms work in tandem and in partnership for the overall benefit of Nigerians. “I can recall many instances of Mallam Kyari visiting my office at the National Assembly to personally deliver communications from the Executive, just to underscore the high pedestal on which he placed the Institution. “For the topmost presidential aide to personally deliver such message, no doubt, demonstrated the desire of his principal for the two political arms of government to be on the same page, and understand each other’s perspectives on issues of national interest“. The Senate president continued: „On all such occassions, he (Abba Kyari) was always patient and respectful, never even remotely resembling the caricature coldly portrayed in sections of the media of a vicious power monger. Never. Mallam Kyari’s door was always open and provided an effective communication platform for the two arms of government. He appreciated that it is unavoidable to sometimes disagree on issues, after all, disagreement is part of human relations. But he believed that there should always be a point of convergence of views for progress to be made and for the sake of the people we both represent. „I believe that the good understanding between the two arms in the current dispensation has a lot to do with the kind of advice Mallam Kyari, a pillar in the government, and likeminded officials are giving the President with respect to our legislative business,“ Lawan said adding that a great tribute to his memories will be to sustain this understanding and make it reflect in quality performance of government and service delivery to Nigerians”. In the same vein, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State described the late Chief of Staff as ‚‘a man of very solid character, extra-ordinary administrator cum corporate executive, a politician par excellence, who stood firmly for what he believed in.‘‘ The Abia governor said Kyari‘s death has once again brought to the fore the severity of the coronavirus pandemic which has claimed many lives globally and in Nigeria. Similarly, the Lead Administrator of Buharists HangOut (BHO), Dr Uche Diala, noted that Kyari’s death was a painful reminder of the reality of the COVID-19 pandemic and a clarion call for every Nigerian to cooperate with the authorities and observe all precautionary and preventive measures against the virus. ‚‘May the soul of Mallam Abba Kyari and the souls of all Nigerians including health workers who have died as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic rest in peace,‘‘ Diala said in a statement commiserating with the President, the federal government, the Kyari family and the government and people of Borno State. aAlso, the national chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Prof Tunde Adediran also penned a tribute to the late chief of staff, in a condolence message to President Buhari. On behalf of the SDP, he said, ‚‘The death of Mallam Abba Kyari on active national service is a devastating blow to our dear country and undeniably a huge personal loss to you (President Buhari). ‚‘It is indeed a national loss as it is a further depletion of our nation‘s human resource assets, particularly at this critical time that we are confronted with a major crisis in our national life when his valuable services are most needed by the presidency.‘‘ Similarly, the Nigerian Stock Exchange through its chief executive officer (CEO), Oscar Onyema, also commiserated with the president, saying the management of NSE joined Nigerians to offer condolences to president. He said, ‚‘On behalf of the National Council and Management of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, the CEO prayed the almighty Allah to forgive the deceased‘s shortcomings and admit him into Al-Jannah. ‚‘Mallam Kyari before his demise was very supportive of the business of The Exchange. He was committed to The Nigeria Project and contributed his quota in private and public sector service over the years, culminating in his role as your trusted Chief of Staff since August 2015. ‚‘It was in the course of his dedicated service to our country, that he contracted the Corona virus (COVID-19), which led to his untimely death‘‘. Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, former Minister of Budget and National Planning, also condoled with the president on the demise of his Chief of Staff.  Presidency Asks Officials, Journalists At Kyari’s Burial To Proceed On 14-day Isolation Meanwhile the presidency yesterday directed all State House correspondents and staff of the presidential media office who attended and covered the funeral prayer and burial of the late chief of staff to the president, Abba Kyari, at Defence House and Gudu cemetery Abuja, respectively, stay away from the presidential Villa. In a statement signed by deputy director of Information of the media office  directed journalists in Aso Rock to work from home for the next 14 days. The presidency further asked the officials and the reporters to be careful and observe the recommended measures to prevent the coronavirus transmission, including maintaining physical distancing and good personal hygiene going forward. The statement noted: “As a precautionary measure, all State House Correspondents and Media Office Staff who covered/attended the funeral prayer/burial ceremony of the late Chief of Staff, at Defence House and Gudu Cemetery Abuja, respectively, are strongly advised to work from home for the next 14 days. “Please be careful to observe the recommended measures to prevent the coronavirus transmission, including maintaining physical distancing and good personal hygiene going forward”. This followed video clips and pictures from the burial site which showed that many who were in attendance were not properly kitted to attend such a ceremony. One of the officials that participated in the interment was also spotted in the video which went viral on the social media disposing of his personal protective equipment (PPE) near the scene of the burial without taking proper precautions. The presidential order on social distancing was said to be also violated.  Businessman, Julius Rone, Donates N20m To Combat COVID-19 In Delta Govt Meanwhile, billionaire businessman and group managing director of UTM Group, Julius Rone, has donated the sum of N20 million to Delta State government to fight the coronavirus pandemic. Impressed by the dedication of medical personnel in the state and the “exemplary leadership” shown by the state governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa, Rone said he made the princely donation as his contribution to the efforts of Delta State government at curbing the spread of the virus. Praising the visionary leadership of Dr Okowa, Rone said he was “humbled and incredibly impressed by the quality of medical facility the governor has put in place within a short time to ensure that Delta indigenes remain safe and healthy”. He continued: “I can’t but be moved by the tireless efforts of Governor Okowa and the state healthcare workers who are at the forefront, fighting every minute to keep the people safe and the state functioning in spite of the threat posed by the virus “As they keep us safe, the least one should do is to help provide as much support to them as one can. At this point, all philanthropic endeavours are good and welcomed. This is why I’m donating the sum of N20 million to the course of the fight against the virus. “It is my greatest wish and prayer that we win the fight against the virus that presently seems to defy a known cure. Notwithstanding, I firmly believe that the season will be over and we all will emerge stronger and healthier”. Rone further enjoined all Deltans to continue keeping safe and to adhere to state government’s counsels and eschew violence. Delta State has four confirmed cases of COVID-19 as at Wednesday when the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control gave the latest updates on the virus. The state governor had on Tuesday extended the stay-at-home order for another 14 days to mitigate the spread of the virus. He said the extension was necessary to identify, isolate and detect cases.  PDP Seeks Suspension Of Bank, Electricity Charges Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday asked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to immediately open an arrangement with commercial banks for the suspension of charges for use of ATM cards and low amount mobile fund transfers as part of the panacea to ease the burden of poor Nigerians during the COVID-19 lockdown. The party noted that the lockdown has subjected majority of Nigerians to extensive use of ATM and mobile transfers for survival, making the suspension of charges on minimal transactions within this period of restriction highly imperative. The party in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, noted that the lifting of the charges within the period of this pandemic will ease the burden on cash withdrawals by vulnerable citizens as well as encourage more Nigerians to support one another at this critical time. The PDP demanded the CBN to immediately liaise with commercial banks and stimulate a special social sustenance modality to defray the cost of such charges, particularly to cover minimal transactions in favour of vulnerable Nigerians. The statement noted: “In the same vein, our party urges the Federal Government to activate similar social sustenance scheme to immediately defray electricity tariff, particularly in areas populated by low income and vulnerable Nigerians across the country within the period of the lockdown. “The PDP calls on the Federal Government to show compassion on suffering Nigerians whose means of subsistence has been crippled by the lockdown and immediately provide funds to electricity distribution companies to actuate the tariff suspension within this period. “Furthermore the PDP counsels the Federal Government to immediately commence the collation of data from trade unions and corporative societies covering low income groups such as market women, okada riders, artisans, cab drivers, labourers among others, for possible economic recovery funds and loans to buoy their businesses at the end of the lockdown.” Muslims, Christians Pray At Home In Kano Meanwhile, thousands of the two most notable religious faiths, Islam and Christianity, observed their Friday and Sunday prayers behind closed doors in compliance with the lockdown order imposed by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for the past three days across Kano State. Checks by LEADERSHIP in the state capital revealed that across the metropolis, worshippers, in adherence to the stay-at-home order, did not go to their places of worship as it used to be with the Muslim Ummah on Fridays and Christians on Sundays. Speaking with journalists, the chairman of the Council of Ulama in the state Sheikh Ibrahim Khalil and that of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Kano State chapter, Reverend Adeyemo Samuel, said all Islamic and Christian spiritual leaders were directed to ask their followers to comply with the stay-at-home order. Stating further that circulars and reminder notices were dispatched to all Mosque and Churches mandating them to adhere to the order issued by the state government, they noted that millions of adherents of the two notable faiths  could not attend Friday and Sunday worship because  „only the living can serve God.“ “You cannot serve God in the grave,” they stated, adding that men of God are expected to exercise medical precautions in the fight against the threat to humanity posed by the COVID 19 Pandemic. According to them the two Faiths were confronted with challenges of enforcing the lockdown order, explaining that there were those who didn’t believe COVID-19 existed. “We had to educate and sensitize our people to comprehend the dangers confronting mankind at this time. It is unprecedented”, the added.