Federal lawmaker representing Ajaokuta federal constituency of Kogi State, Hon. Idirisu Lawal Mohammadu has called on the people of Kogi State and Nigerians at large to heed to the laid down strategy by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to defeat the dreaded novel Coronavirus, which is ravaging the world at the moment. Hon. Idirisu made the call in a statement made available to newsmen in Owerri . He urged Nigerians to observe all safety rules prescribed by the World Health Organisation so as to reduce and possibly end the continual spread of covic- 19. The Lawmaker Commended the Federal Government for its effort so far also applauded the Governor of kogi state,Yahaya Bello for the approach taken towards ensuring that community spread of the scourge is reduced to the barest minimum. Observing that Covid-19 is not a death sentence, he said that people who reported early to the designated medical centre, National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) are recovering. He further encouraged Nigerians to always call designated lines to get help if anyone has such related symptoms. His words: “I commend President Mohammadu Buhari led Federal Government and my Governor, Yahaya Bello for the strategies so far adopted to manage dreaded Coronavirus ravaging the world. It is here and we must deal with it. “I want to use this medium to urge our people to abide by all the prescribed steps to ensure that we reduce and possibly stop the spread of the dangerous disease. “The good news is that they are recovering from it and are on their feet again. With this, it is no death sentence after all. All we have to do is to maintain the highest level of hygiene – wash our hands all the time for about 30 minutes, maintain social distancing and use hand sanitizers where we cannot access water and surf. If you have cough, please show love to others by ensuring you cover your mouth and nose with face mask so as prevent from infecting others. “I know that it is not easy for many families, especially at this period of lockdown but it is better we sacrifice a little to live tomorrow”. On the stimulus package passed by the Federal House of Representatives, he said it is a way to begin. He however called on the federal government to do more and whatever that is practicable to ameliorate the pains of the poor masses.