The Centre for Advocacy, Transparency and Accountability Initiative (CATAI) has commended the efforts of Nigerian healthcare workers and essential services providers at the frontline of coronavirus pandemic. CATAI chief executive officer, Abubakar Sadiq Muazu, made  the commendation yesterday in Maiduguri in commemoration of the World Health Day. Mr. Muazu noted that this year’s  commemoration come at a critical time the world is battling the COVID-19 pandemic which, to date has resulted in 62,784 deaths and 1,133,758 confirmed cases worldwide according to the World Health Organization’s Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) Situation Report –76, of the 5th of April 2020. “As we are in the tenth year of the insurgency in northeastern Nigeria, access to health services remains a major challenge across many locations, particularly in Borno State due to inaccessibility to reach some communities. “Many humanitarian organisations providing health services restricted their logistical operations due to the insecurity, further limiting access to populations in need of critical medical services. Recently displaced persons were subjected to risk of not having access to healthcare facilities especially those from Marte, Guzamala and Kukawa local government areas which is a basic and essential fundamental right. “We will continue to advocate for more improvement in providing access to affordable healthcare  to over 5,600,000 people in need, protection of the rights of the citizens is fundamental and crucial at this critical time. We continue to lament the poor working conditions of health workers, particularly those on the frontline in the response to the insurgency and also the recent pandemic COVID-19, who are at great risk,” he said. He urged government to provide effective WASH facilities in most of the IDPs’ camps to help in promoting hygiene and increasing sensitization as a way to prevent the outbreak of the COVID-19. Muazu said with the influx of IDPs in Maiduguri and Jere overstretching the available health facilities, Borno State government should fast-track the process of providing citizens with effective healthcare especially by commissioning the facilities constructed under the World Bank Multi-sectoral Crises Recovery project in many communities and LGAs.  