Many communities in Lagos and Ogun States are now living in fear as robber and hoodlums have subjected the community to constant robbery attacks. LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that the hoodlums stormed Agbado community on Friday night but were repelled by residents who had a sleepless night watching against robbery attacks. The latest attack is coming on the heel of Tuesday’s attack on residents by hoodlums who shot a dog in the head and stole two motorcycles in a case that has already been lodged at the Ayinla police station, Agbado. The hoodlums numbering over 100 arrived at about 9:00pm brandishing guns, bottles and other dangerous weapons on Friday thretening to launch attack that night. According to sources, the residents of Agbado Crossing had a sleepless night making bonfire with used tyres to scare away the hoodlums who later left after looting some shops. It was gathered that since Tuesday last week when the first midnight attack was launched, residents of the various streets formed themselves into vigilante groups with bonfire set daily at nights to scare away the hoodlums. It was gathered that the hoodlums numbering over 30 on the first day of attack brandished guns, cutlasses and other dangerous weapons shouting at the top of their voices in pretext of performing a midnight sacrifice popularly referred to as “Oro” in Yoruba language. According to one of our sources who spoke to our correspondent in confidence, the hoodlums in the process of chanting Incantation’s jumped into houses demanding for valuables like handsets, laptops and other household utensils before carting away two motorcycles. They were said to have operated for more than three hours moving from house to house without any obstruction. It was also gathered that residents of Okearo, Matogun, Lambs, Sango Otta also resorted to self-help by keeping vigil at nights in order to forestall threats posed by miscreants in the face of the lockdown. The residents, however, called on the federal government to call off the lockdown so that people can go back to their various businesses. When our correspondent contacted the divisional police officers of Alagbado and Alakuko on telephone, they said Agbado Crossing did not fall within their jurisdiction. They advised that the right person to contact was the divisional police officer, Ayinla police station, Agbado, who could not be reached as at the time of filing this report. Police Nab 36 Suspects The Lagos State Police Command said yesterday that its operatives have arrested about 36 suspected robbers who had been terrorising residents and looting shops in Lagos and Ogun States. According to the command, the commander, Rapid Respond Squad(RRS) , Olatunji Dish, a deputy commissioner of police led the team of police officers in the patrol of Ijoko, Dalemo, Saka, Akinde, Alakuko, Abule, Alagbado, Jankara, Ahmadiya, where the hoodlums are believed to have been harassing and robbing residents where they arrested five suspects. In a statement by the Lagos State police public relations officer, Bala Elkana, the police said it foiled robbery attempts in communities under Ogun State and deployed Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants and also tactical teams to different parts of Lagos State were it arrested a total number of 36 suspected robbers. He said the commissioner of police, Lagos State Command, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the immediate deployment of operatives of the command’s Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants, Anti Robbery Squad, Anti Cultism Squad and Raiders to various parts of Lagos State to support the efforts of area commands and divisional patrol teams already deployed to the fields. He added that operatives of the command’s Rapid Response Squad had been positioned in strategic locations to promptly respond to distress calls. According to him, patrols were intensified around markets and stores to prevent hoodlums from stealing and looting. Patrol teams were equally deployed to the various communities and streets. He further said that about 20 suspects were arrested on April 10, 2020, at about 1000hours, within Ilaje and Ajah communities for gang violence. He stated: “On April 10, 2020 at about 1000hrs Area B command and Apapa division responded to a distress call at Burma/Creek Road, Apapa where seven gangsters who engaged in supremacy battle on the street were arrested. “Their mission on the street is mainly to steal and loot under the guise of supremacy battle. Nine suspects were arrested along Abule Egba and Ifako Ijaiye areas after operatives of the  Lagos State command successfully foiled robbery attempts on residents in communities under Ogun State, neighbouring Lagos State”. He said that investigation was ongoing, adding that the suspects would soon be charged to court.