As a demonstration of its sensitivity to residents of its franchise states who are on lockdown over the Coronavirus (COVID 19) pandemic, BEDC Electricity Plc. (BEDC) has increased significantly, power availability to several customers in some locations, even at it has commenced the process of boosting the present grid power with additional power supply source through embedded generation. BEDC in a statement assures customers that it shall continue to do its best to provide quality service across all its touch points by improving the availability of electricity supply to cushion the inconveniences on its esteemed customers whilst ensuring the safety of its workers. In the latest move which began last week, the company has tacitly suspended the rotational load management schedule for power supply to some of customers. In Delta State, BEDC has extended power supply improvement to customers in some locations in Delta state including the state capital Asaba where areas like GRA, ANWAI ROAD, SUMMIT ROAD, Okpanam road, NTA and NNEBISI ROAD are all now enjoying improved electricity supply commercial, and James Hope/Agbor feeders who continue to enjoy 24hours electricity supply. BEDC customers in Warri (GRA) have their power supply boosted to a comfortable 18hours period; up from the initial mere 6hours they were used to. In Edo State, the following areas have increased power supply: The Edo North is not left out as: In Ekiti State areas, Customers in Agric feeder (Agric, Mobil/Water, Moferere, Bangboye, Falana/Olujoda, Ajebandele, Covenant etc) respectively had their daily power supply doubled from 6 to 12hours, in Ado Ekiti will also enjoy 12 hours supply. In Ondo State, the increased availability of power was also extended to: Customers in Alagbaka area of Akure (Oke Eda, Ala Quarters, Sijuade, Ilunla, Oluwatuyi Quarters, Hospital Road, St. Luke, Liberty Hospital Street) are presently delighted with the increase in their power supply period that has been extended to 15 hours from 9hours. BEDC explained that the increase “will be in force for now till the COVID 19 pandemic lockdown ebbs away, adding that however the increase could only be affected by technical faults or other untoward circumstances in the power value chain, but stressed that it will strive to rectify faults as quickly as possible.”