As part of efforts to curtail the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and bring relief to both the victims and generality of Nigerians, the management of Five Star Logistics Terminal has supported the federal government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Private Sector Coalition against (CACOVID) with the sum of N75 million. Five Star Logistics also made a donation of 1,200 packs of hand sanitizers and 1,600 packs of face masks worth N20 million to the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Sister companies of Five Star Logistics, Comet Shipping Agencies Limited and Tarabaroz Fisheries Limited also donated the sum of N5 million and N500,000 respectively to the federal government in support of its efforts to contain the pandemic. Presenting the items at the Tin Can Island Port Complex in Lagos on Tuesday, General Manager, Comet Group, Rigo Nazarri, said the donation of the relief materials was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility. He added that the gesture is also in alignment with the initiative of the NPA and the maritime industry to support the federal government in its singular mission to rid the country of the coronavirus pandemic. He said, “We will remain resolute in our support to the federal government and people of Nigeria in ensuring that we all work hand in hand to flush COVID-19 out of Nigeria and the whole world. “Companies under the aegis of Comet Shipping Group have cumulatively contributed over N100 million in the concerted efforts to rid Nigeria of the dreaded coronavirus disease.” Receiving the items on behalf of NPA, the port manager, Tin Can Island Port Complex, Abubakar Umar, commended the management of Five Star Logistics for the donation of the relief materials, which he said would help reduce the spread of the virus among port users. “Let me appreciate you for heeding to the request made by our managing director during an assessment visit to all the terminals to assess the health and challenges faced by terminal operators in regards to COVID-19. “During that time, she drew attention to the need to also contribute to assist our workers who are day and night working in the ports being an essential service duty to keep the port operational. So, I am happy that you are here today with the items as your contribution to the fight against COVID-19. Be assured that the message will be conveyed to the management,” he said.