The Lagos State government has commenced the decontamination of animal markets in the state to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The state’s commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, disclosed this to journalists at the launch of the Decontamination Exercise of Livestock/Live Bird Markets, Abattoirs and other Animal Related Areas in the state in commemoration of this year’s World Veterinary Day celebration with the theme, “Environmental Protection for Improving Animal and Human Health” at the semi-mechanized abattoir in Ikorodu. Lawal who was represented by the Director, Veterinary Services, Dr. Rasheed Macaulay stressed the roles of veterinarians as advocates of animal health and welfare by supporting the responsible use of natural resources, helping to mitigate the effects of climate change and assiduously working together to reduce the spread of the COVID-19 and other zoonotic diseases in the state. “We are celebrating the World Veterinary Day and at the same time, commencing the flag- off of the decontamination of all abattoirs in the state including the livestock and live bird markets in order to curtail the spread of COVID-19 as it is a zoonotic disease, originating from animals, and other zoonotic diseases of animal origin. That is why we have taken it upon ourselves to decontaminate all animal areas in the state to commemorate the World Veterinary Day. This is a collaboration between the Veterinary Council of Nigeria and the Lagos State Government,” the Commissioner asserted. He noted that the three weeks long continuous decontamination exercise would see to the decontamination of no fewer than 50 animal areas including abattoirs, slaughter slabs, animal clinics as well as livestock and live bird markets, adding that the exercise was not new to these areas as there was a constant disinfection and decontamination of live bird markets across the state. “Even before this pandemic, the state government through the Ministry of Agriculture has been decontaminating all abattoirs, livestock markets and live bird markets across the state. It is not a one-off thing; it is going to be a continuous exercise. That is why we don’t experience any meat-borne disease in the State. It is because of the continuous decontamination and disinfection of all our abattoirs, live bird and livestock markets,” Lawal noted. 