The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has commenced investigation into the  blame game over power fluctuations  between the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) and the Electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) in the last few days with a view to finding a lasting solution. In a notice issued yesterday, the commission said its attention had “been drawn to the unnecessary exchange of technical opinions and blame trading in the public space between TCN and Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) on matters that borders essentially on power system operation and outage management.” TCN had claimed that “as at 19:00 hours on April 25, 2020, due to rainfall, AEDC dropped load and was off-taking only 0.5MW and l6MW from TCN’s 330kV substations in Katampe and Gwagwalada respectively. “All AEDC 33kV feeders were out due to poor distribution network; this will certainly create high voltage that may damage TCN terminal equipment”, it said and advocated immediate capitalisation of DisCos to save the power sector from imminent collapse. In a swift response, AEDC alleged that the problem of power supply in the country was largely a function of the TCN’s lack of capacity, insisting the transmission subsector remains the weakest link in power sector value chain for lack of technical expertise. “For a very long time, TCN has resisted a coordination of the setting of their relays in such a way that it will allow for professionally determined tolerance level.Thus we ask if it is a case of funds or expertise,” AEDC has said. The commission noted that such discourse in public opinions domain serves no useful purpose towards improving quality of service to Nigerians, and therefore needless. “The commission has commenced investigation into the recurring protection and relay coordination between TCN and all the DisCos for an independent assessment of the situation so as to ensure a lasting solution to issues militating against a sustained improvement in quality of service and reliability of supply,” the notice read.  Meanwhile, all licensees were by the notice directed to “stop forthwith any such public display of indiscretion in operational matters and advised to acquaint themselves with the dispute resolution procedures and process in the Market Rules governing operations in the industry.”  The commission equally noted with regret that capitalisation of network utilities, an issue bordering on government policy and regulatory direction, is now the subject of campaign on various social media platforms at a time when relevant agencies charged with the responsibility are working towards getting the market fundamentals right for securing both debt and equity.  It said that  it has scheduled a meeting with TCN and AEDC at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja for Thursday on the matter, and will latter meet with other DisCos to address same issue following which an appropriate regulatory instrument shall be issued to provide general direction on system protection and other related matters in the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI).