As part of its effort to ensure its customers have easy access to their funds and can carry out seamless transactions during this Coronavirus (Covid-19) lockdown, Access Bank Plc has launched a revolutionary mobile banking application. The AccessMore app is an innovative mobile application that offers a more than banking experience; built on cutting-edge technology, offering tailored and personalised services, ease of use and excellent customer experience. Speaking on the product, the CEO of Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe, said “In a period like this, when we need to be more present and relevant in the lives of our customers than ever, we have risen to the challenge to ensure our customers have access to their funds to carry out transactions while keeping safe at home by providing not just uninterrupted service but superior service.” He stated that “To deliver on our promise to continually give our customers more, we worked with first class tech experts to build the AccessMore app to suit our customers’ lifestyle and meet their financial needs.” He added that “As we mark our first anniversary post-merger with erstwhile Diamond Bank, this new addition to our array of solutions is in line with our promise to adopt the best of both institutions. “The AccessMore mobile app does not only deliver the best combination of both mobile apps, it accommodates the unique needs of existing users delivering the best mobile banking experience on a world class platform.” According to Access Bank, some of the unique features of the “AccessMore” mobile app include:  dashboard personalisation of theme and favourites, interactive promotional messages, intuitive beneficiary selection, and of course more rewarding banking experience. In an interview with the executive director, Retail Banking, Access Bank, Victor Etuokwu, said that “This month marks our one-year anniversary as a merger, and we are using this opportunity to reward our loyal customers who believed in and stood by us throughout the merger period. He said that from April to December 2020, the Bank will be rewarding customers who complete 10 transactions using either its USSD service or any of its mobile apps per month, adding that every multiple of 10 transactions qualifies customers for a ticket in the quarterly draws. So, the more a customer transacts in multiples of 10, the higher the chances of winning. Access Bank Plc is recognised as one of the most innovative financial institutions in Africa. With more than 37 million customers and about 600 branches nationwide. The bank has a range of products and services tailored to suit needs and lifestyle of its customers across multiple segments. 