BY HUSSAINI JIRGI, DAMATURU
The Yobe State COVID-19 Prevention and Control Committee, under the leadership of the Deputy Governor, Hon. Idi Barde Gubana, has approved the extension of stay-at-home and work-from-home directive for civil servants from Grade Level 12 and below. In a released signed by Commissioner, Home Affairs, Information and Culture, Mallam Abdullahi Bego, in an email message to Leadership correspondent in Damaturu, Yobe state. He said the committee also resolves that, in view of the ongoing prevalence of COVID-19 in certain parts of the country, movement into and out of the state, especially across its borders with Jigawa States and Bauchi state, will remain restricted till further notice. According to the statement, Yobe State COVID-19 Prevention and Control Committee, under the leadership of His Excellency the Deputy Governor, Hon. Idi Barde Gubana (Wazirin Fune) Tuesday 7th April 2020 to review the prevention and preparedness measures that have been put in place to prevent an outbreak of the coronavirus disease across the state. He added that, ” all these are measures that cut across sectors and domains and that are designed to ensure a holistic and comprehensive approach to protecting the people and maintaining the zero-case status of the state” Bego said. The COVID-19 Committee, remains profoundly grateful to the people of the state for their cooperation and adherence to the guidelines on social distancing, regular hand washing, stay-at-home, good respiratory etiquette, and other measures that have been recommended as effective in preventing a COVID-19 infection. However, the Committee also resolves as follows: That in view of the ongoing prevalence of COVID-19 in certain parts of the country, movement into and out of the state, especially across our borders with Bauchi and Jigawa States, will remain restricted. He said the police, civil defence and vigilantes, will continue to enforce the restriction, the stay-at-home and work-from-home directive for civil servants from Grade Level 12 and below has been extended until April 30th.
He urged People of the state to continue to observe and implement all measures against COVID-19, including social distancing, regular hand washing, and excellent respiratory etiquette.