The Nigerian military has said its Liquefied Oxygen (LOX) plant is on 24 hours operation to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of same to isolation centres across the country. The coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, giving update on the Armed Forces preparedness on COVID-19, said the Nigerian Air Force is operating at full capacity its Liquefied Oxygen plant, which is being gasified and stored in cylinders for onward supply to isolation centres. “Currently, Nigerian Air Force is operating at full capacity, its Liquefied Oxygen (LOX) Plant at the 103 Strike Group (103 STG) at the Nigerian Air Force Base, Yola. “The plant is on 24 hours operation to ensure uninterrupted production of pure Liquefied Oxygen. “The Liquefied Oxygen is being gasified and will be stored in cylinders for immediate supply to isolation centres and designated hospitals as will be directed,” he said. He added that the Defence Headquarters has also commenced the training of 80 active medical personnel, to complement the federal government efforts in the fight against coronavirus. While assuring the public that the military is committed to presidential directive on COVID-19, he said the AFN has established an additional isolation centre in Lagos. “In this regard, I wish to state that we have provided an additional isolation and treatment centre, located at the Nigerian Navy Reference Hospital, Navy Town, Ojo in Lagos, bringing the number to 18 centres. “Equally, the training of 80 medical personnel of the Armed Forces of Nigeria to manage COVID-19 cases has since commenced. “They are being trained in batches and would soon be deployed to the various units they would serve” he said. He restated that the recalling of retired Armed Forces medical personnel is in progress. The coordinator commended the citizens for their understanding and compliance with the Presidential directives, saying it is for the interest of all. “It should be understood that the directives are in the best interest of the Nigerian populace, in order to prevent the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic”, he said