...’pandemic presents opportunity to restructure state’s healthcare, education sectors’ The Edo State Government’s drive to mobilise resources from its illustrious sons and daughters within and outside the state to combat the outbreak of coronavirus (COVID-19) has gotten a major boost with the commitment of Group Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Banner Energy Limited, Nuhu Yakubu and Managing Director of ICMG Securities Limited, Michael Osime, to back government’s efforts. The two businessmen made the disclosure during the inaugural meeting of the Edo State COVID-19 Fundraising Committee, which held virtually. Yakubu, while commending the state government for its proactiveness in mobilising resources to respond to the outbreak of the virus, urged the state to strengthen its mechanism to manage the influx of persons from other states in the country. According to him, “There is a need to address the fear factor, especially as people are coming from other states. We also need to explore traditional medicine, even as we look on the economic side of this pandemic. For instance, what is the residual long-term effect this pandemic is going to leave on Edo people? “We ought to start looking at some critical areas in agriculture as well, such as food production and preservation so that we could be self-sufficient in these areas. There is no denying that government would need to continue to prioritise human capital development.” He noted that there was need to step up advocacy about the fundraising committee so that more persons can be reached to ensure a greater spread of those to donate to the relief efforts. On his part, Osime, said it was pertinent to ensure that the right structure is put in place to promote transparency and accountability in acquiring necessary equipment needed to save as many lives as possible. “We need to work towards improving the structure we met in place and do this transparently. We would need to prioritise the sourcing of equipment and get them in place to support our people. COVID-19 presents us an opportunity to restructure the state in terms of education, health, agriculture, especially as we look towards a post-COVID-19 Edo State,” he added.