The Edo State Government has called for the collaboration of all stakeholders in curtailing the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), urging security agencies in the state to support the efforts of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration to manage the pandemic by ensuring strict compliance to government’s guidelines. Deputy Governor and Chairman, Edo State Response Committee on COVID-19, Rt. Hon. Comrade Philip Shaibu, at a press briefing in Benin City, warned that the state government will not tolerate flouting of its directives as it steps up response to the pandemic. Shaibu identified the directives to include closure of markets, with only sellers of food items, medicines and other vital commodities allowed to operate; ban on gatherings of more than 20 persons; strict seating guidelines in public buses and proper documentation of passengers by transporters; checks on recent travel history of clients by hoteliers, among others. The deputy governor, however, urged residents to adhere to the precautionary measures and hygienic practices against the spread of the virus, adding, “In addition to observing social distance, members of the public should wash their hands regularly with soap under running water and use alcohol-based hand sanitisers; cover their mouth and nose properly with a handkerchief or tissue paper when sneezing and/or coughing. You may also cough into your elbow if a handkerchief is not available.” Shaibu said, “Seating guidelines in public buses must be adhered to. The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) must enforce this rule among its members. The seating arrangements are that cars must carry one passenger in front and two at the back; for buses, one passenger in front and two in each row. “Hoteliers should take all safety precautions while dealing with clients. They are to obtain detailed travel history of their clients. For persons coming to self-isolate in their facility, they are to take necessary precautions and daily temperature checks, among other measures. “We have also observed partial compliance to the order to lock up stores that do not sell essential commodities. This is not acceptable. We are charging security agencies to move swiftly to ensure full compliance,” he noted. He further disclosed that state government has concluded plans to commence massive screening and testing for coronavirus in order to get a statistical sense of how widespread the virus is in the state to ensure effective planning and containment efforts.