Most insurance companies in the country are eyeing investments in real estate sector post-recapitalisation exercise in the insurance industry. LEADERSHIP learnt though, real estate investment is not admissible as part of the paid-up capital in  the ongoing exercise, there are strong indications that underwriters see real estate as another investment haven and have penciled it down post recapitalisation. It was learnt that many insurance companies after the regulatory induced exercise, will have enough funds at their disposal to invest in lucrative sectors. The plan, according to findings, is to give good investment returns to their respective shareholders. In the current exercise, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) had raised the minimum paid-up share capital of a Life insurance company from N2 billion to N8 billion; Non-Life insurance from N3 billion to N10 billion and Composite insurance from N5 billion to N18 billion. Re-insurance companies were directed to raise their capital base from N10 billion to N20 billion. Post recapitalisation, experts said, there are expectations that the surviving underwriting firms would be overwhelmed by a lot of cash that they will be looking for where to plug it, and in this case, real estate seems to be one of the options. The likes of LASACO Assurance Plc, Cornerstone Insurance Plc, Anchor Insurance Plc, Royal Exchange Plc, among others, are already planning for post recapitalisation, while investigation shows that real estate is one of the investment options they are eyeing. Although, there is a glut in the property market currently, experts said, the return on investment (ROI) in real estate still gives one of the best investment returns, thereby, making the property market the toast of operators. Prior to now, companies like NICON Insurance, AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, Niger Insurance Plc, LASACO assurance Plc, among others have sizeable investments in real estate and are currently looking for buyers of some of these properties to augment their capital in a bid to meet the deadline. Although, they are planning to sell now to resolve a short term challenge which is the capitalisation, they are mooting the idea of reinvesting in that market after the conclusion of recapitalisation exercise. Speaking on this development, the group managing director/CEO, LASACO Assurance Plc, Mr. Segun Balogun, promised that his insurer will diversify into real estate and hospitality business post-recapitalisation, as part of plans to increase returns on investment to shareholders and investors. He said, currently, the company’s volume of investment in real estate business is at N3.3 billion, noting that, most top insurance companies outside Nigeria make good returns by diversifying their interests and not solely depending on insurance operations. To him, “We have discovered that for companies outside Nigeria that are making good returns, it is not only via insurance that they make income, but also by what they divert or direct the money into that makes good returns for them. They diversify into some other sectors of the economy to augment the income that is being made from insurance business.” In the next few years, he said, LASACO would be a major player in the hospitality and the real estate industry. Similarly, the group managing director/CEO of Cornerstone Insurance Plc, Mr. Ganiyu Musa, who disclosed that the insurer had to sell its investment property to recoup fund to recapitalise, added that, the insurance firm can still reinvest in real estate in the future as long as it will be profitable for the underwriting firm. According to him, “Of course, our original intention was to hold it for the long term but shortly after we completed it, NAICOM then came up with the recapitalisation programme and unfortunately, one of the provisions of the exercise is that investment properties would not be allowed as an admissible asset. So, we are now in a situation where we have invested about N4 billion of our funds and the regulator is saying, ‘Oh sorry! This N4 billion will not count.’” He added that, “We took the big decision to sell the property, which we did at a very handsome price. And just in one swoop, it resolved many issues. We now have significant amount of liquidity. We don’t have the headache of recapitalisation and we have done what the regulator wants, which is to convert any property to cash.” 