From the battle over the revenue accruing from Mbede and Akiri oil wells, governors of Rivers and Imo states are now at daggers-drawn over the crisis that rocked APC recently. ANAYO ONUKWUGHA writes. The crisis that rocked the national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) may have subsided due to the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari, but two governors, Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and Hope Uzodimma of Imo State went for each other’s jugular over who was responsible for the crisis. Uzodimma, who is believed to be one of the APC governors backing the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, had accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of being behind the plot to destabilize the APC by removing the former Edo State Governor from office. But Wike, who is one of the pillars of the PDP, decided to reply his Imo State counterpart and berated him for making such allegation against the leading opposition political party in the country. It is worthy to note that the relationship between the Rivers State government and the Imo State government went sour when the immediate past Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha wrote to the President demanding revenue from the Federal Account in respect of the Mbede and Akiri oil wells. Mbede and Akiri oil wells are located between Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni local government area of Rivers State and Ohaji/Egbema local government area of Imo State. In return, the Rivers State government approached a Federal High Court in Abuja and obtained an order restraining the Federal Government and its agencies from deducting revenues accruable to Rivers State from the disputed Mbede and Akiri oil wells. The presiding judge, Hon. Justice Taiwo Taiwo, declared that the Rivers State Government was entitled to continue to receive and retain revenues from the federation account and other accounts maintained for the purpose in respect of revenue derived from oil wells within Rivers State territory based on the 13 percent derivation formula currently applied by the fourth defendant. Taiwo also said the Rivers State Government was entitled to receive and retain revenue from the Federation Account as provided under the 1999 Constitution (as amended) in respect of revenue derived from the Akiri and Mbede Oil Wells located in Rivers State territory. The judge stated that the President and Federal Government, represented by the Attorney General of the Federation, were not entitled to give directives to the Minister of Finance regarding the distribution of public revenue from the distributable pool account, including the Federation Account. To Wike, the allegation by his Imo State counterpart, Uzodimma that the PDP was responsible for the crisis in the APC was baseless and untrue. The governor, who described statements credited to Uzodimma as unfortunate, insisted that the APC is out to destroy the Judiciary and urged the Judiciary to protect itself from the destructive tendencies of the ruling party. He said: “I read that Senator Hope Uzodimma said that the PDP conspired to plot the attempted removal of APC National Chairman. That is an unfortunate lie. “It is unfortunate that Senator Hope Uzodimma will have the temerity to make that false allegation. Hope Uzodimma was an APC agent while he was in PDP. That was why APC used him as an agent to support Ali Modu Sheriff, but they failed. “It is unfortunate that people of questionable character are in government. Hope Uzodimma cannot talk about the attempted removal of APC National Chairman and mention the PDP. What is our business in the attempted removal of Oshiomhole? “ Wike, who stated that the APC is not a political party that means well for the country, said: “APC does not mean well for Nigeria. It is a party of strange bedfellows merely formed to take over power. “If Senator Uzodimma dares to make such false comments again about the PDP, we will tell the world about him. That he fraudulently took the mandate of PDP does not mean that PDP is weak. Hope Uzodimma lacks the capacity to discuss the PDP.” The governor said Nigerians must be vigilant and work towards protecting the Judiciary, adding: “We must protect the Judiciary to do its work. But the Judiciary should protect itself. APC has destroyed the Judiciary.” The governor wondered why the Judiciary should allow leaders of the APC to toss it around as has been witnessed during the party’s internal crisis. He decried the situation where the Court of Appeal granted a stay of execution on the suspension of the APC National Chairman, but the FCT High Court went ahead to declare another person the Acting National Chairman. The Rivers State Governor, who stated that it is only the National Executive Committee of political parties that have such powers, said: “The Judiciary should be very careful. The Judiciary should be at alert. It should not allow itself to be used. It should not allow itself to be destroyed. “APC should not be allowed to destroy the Judiciary. Judiciary was there before APC. It was there before any political party. I cannot see the Judiciary being destroyed and keep quiet. I am not interested in what happens in the APC. But I am concerned with the Judiciary and its survival.” Wike, who urged the Chief Justice of Nigeria to caution judges, said: “With what the APC is doing today, we may not have the Judiciary and everyone will pay the price. The party is trying to destroy the hope of the common man.” The governor expressed regrets that the APC and her supporters attacked the Judiciary when judgement is not in their favour, pointing out the attacks on Justice Mary Odili in the Bayelsa State governorship matter. Wike further stated that the APC is an association that was only concerned about the removal of former President Goodluck Jonathan, adding that having removed Jonathan, APC has been unable to use power to the advantage of Nigerians. But in a swift response,  Uzodimma fired back saying his Rivers State counterpart is trivializing serious issues of national and international importance. Uzodimma, who is less than three months in office, advised Wike, to think before he talks on political matters. The governor, in a statement by his media aide, Oguwike Nwachukwu, said he does not have any regret in his comment that the PDP and characters like Wike were instrumental to the attempted plot to remove Oshiomhole. He stated that Rivers State governor arrogates to himself the strength he does not have going by the way he talks. Uzodimma said: “Rather than engage in some kind of introspection on what went wrong with his party, Governor Wike thinks that trivializing serious issues of national and international importance will bring accolades his way. “Governor Wike pretends to love the judiciary more than anyone else, but the truth is that every opportunity he gets to stand the judiciary on the head he does so with relish.” The governor noted that he believes in the rule of law like the APC and has not hidden his respect for the judiciary as a critical organ for national development and survival of Nigeria’s democracy.