Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi has unveiled the state COVID-19 Response Hub, designed to identify itinerary of positive cases in order to curtail incidence of community spread of coronavirus in the state. He said the Geographic Information System- based application would also help and strengthen the mechanism to combat spread of the dreaded viral disease.  Fayemi while unveiling the interactive website in Ado-Ekiti , added that technology of the response hub was adopted to serve as a platform for residents to take, “a self-assessment test to determined their risk of the infection while people with symptoms of the virus can report directly to the right channels for quick response without going to the hospital and endangering the lives of others.”  Affirming the confidentiality of users of the platform, he explained that the hub can be accessed via smart phones and other internet poweredgadgetson www.covid19. ekitistate.gov.ng.  According to him, it would serve as tool to map and manage the State’s medical facilities effectively and reach vulnerable population to provide effective interventions and palliatives.  The governor further added that the interface offered a secured payment platform for direct donations to Ekiti State Resources Mobilisation accounts, a development he said, would enhance credibility and transparency of resources donated in the collective fight against the virus.  He called on the people of the state to utilize the hub to keep themselves abreast of information and useful tips on fighting the virus.  “Utilize the system also to report symptoms of Covid-19 you or any member of your community might be experiencing,” he urged.  The governor said, “I am pleased to unveil a Geographic Information System based application: EKITI STATE COVID-19 RESPONSE HUB. The hub, which can be accessed online, will be utilized to strengthen our response mechanisms in combating the COVID-19 pandemic.  “We are stepping up our fight against this deadly virus by using a technologically intelligent and interactive ecosystem. The response hub will assist our efforts to map the spread of the virus, map and manage our medical facilities effectively and reach our vulnerable population to provide effective interventions and palliatives.  “The hub will also serve as a tool for Ekiti residents to take a self-assessment test to determine their risk of Covid-19 infection while people with symptoms of the virus can report directly to the right channels for quick response without going to the hospital and endangering the lives of others.  “The Ekiti State COVID-19 response hub will be useful to our contact tracing team in their efforts to map the itinerary of positive cases to curtail incidences of community spread. Confidentiality is guaranteed, as the information is provided through a secured platform with maximum data protection regulations applied.’’ 