…As Doctors Threaten To Shut Down Over Harassment By Security Operatives The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, has critizised the decision of the Rivers State government to impose a 24-hour curfew in parts of Port Harcourt City and Obio/Akpor local government area of the state. This is as residents at the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital (RSUTH), Port Harcourt, have threaten to shut down their duties due to the consistent harassment of its members by the security agencies on their way to work during the lock down in the state. Recall that Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, had last Tuesday imposed a 24-hour curfew from Education Bus-Stop to Agip Junction, along Ikwerre Road in Port Harcourt City as well as from Obiri-Ikwerre Junction covering Ozuoba, Rumualogu and Choba communities in Obio/Akpor local government area. Speaking with newsmen in Port Harcourt, immediate past Publicity Secretary of APC in the state, Chris Finebone, said residents of the state are being mad to pass through cruel experiences by security operatives enforcing the 24-hour curfew. Finebone said: “It is quite depressing listening to the outcry of residents of Rivers State especially those living in some parts of Port Harcourt and it’s environ. Yes, Rivers State is on lockdown, so is also Lagos and other states. “The difference is that while Lagos State for example, put in place alternative food market for the various neighbourhoods, there is not such arrangements in Rivers State. “Again, no part of Lagos State is under 24-hour curfew while parts of Port Harcourt are now under inhuman occupation and maltreatment of men, women and children by security forces under the guise of enforcing 24-hour curfew. Even small shops are forced to lock up. “Meanwhile, there is no information that a single ventilator is available in the state. One is tempted to ask: did Coronavirus start from Port Harcourt that so much vengeance is visited on the inhabitants in this cruel manner. “I am not sure Wuhan and her residents saw what Port Harcourt and her residents are seeing right now. Nobody is saying that the governor should re-invent the will, any effort to demobilize Coronavirus must be supported by all; we all support the lockdown. “However, if the government cannot be innovative in going about it, at least, let them copy what is happening elsewhere wisely and correctly. The lockdown we see in other states has a human face to save the people and not for the people to die.” On her part, President of the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD), Sokolo Josephine, said doctors and other healthcare workers are being harassed on a daily bases, despite rendering essential services to Rivers people. Sokolo said: “We have noticed with dismay continued harassment of our members and other health workers by the member of the Nigerian Police and Nigerian military. Health workers are working in this time despite poor working condition, poor welfare packages pay with no incentives yet they are being harassed even after the waiver from the Rivers State. ”We hereby appeal to the commissioner of police and the Commander, 6 Division  Headquarters to desist from harassing our members and other healthcare workers. If this persist, we have no order option to instruct our members to sit at home.”  