Secretary to the Government of the Federation and Chairman of the Presidential Taskforce on Covid-19 Mr. Boss Mustapha on Tuesday said only President Muhammadu Buhari can decide if the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, over Coronavirus will be extended or not. Mustapha who spoke at a press conference in Lagos after inspecting isolation facilities at Mobolaji Johnson Arena, Onikan, Lagos Island, Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, IDH, Yaba, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, LUTH, Idi-Araba and Gbagada General Hospital, Isolation Centre, Gbagada noted that Buhari did say the lockdown would be for 14 days in the first instance. The SGF who was accompanied by Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu , Minister of Information and Culture and his counterpart in Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire and Minister of Interior Affairs Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, among other key government functionaries said the presidential taskforce had come to Lagos for a revaluation and report back to the president. He said, “Basically this is part of the consultation, we are looking at the priorities that were set when the lockdown and quarantine declaration was signed by the president and subsequently other state before the end of the week we will do an evaluation and see how the objective that were set are being met. ‘’At the end of that exercise  we will have the responsibility of reporting back to Mr. President .The declaration was on the advise of Minister of Health and experts that informed the President’s decision in signing of the quarantine declaration 2020. He and He alone can take that decision when the lockdown will either be extended or it will stop at the expiration of fourteen day. In his address of the nation he did say 14 days in the first instance,” he said. He emphasised that the nation is at war with an unseen but very potent enemy, noting that, To successfully prosecute this war, we must own it, we must participate in it, we must create awareness, we must obey rules and regulations, we must stay at home when ordered and we must not conceal any information from the medical and disease control authorities. Also speaking, Lagos State Governor Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu commended the Presidential taskforce for coming to the state to inspect the facilities, saying efforts were being made to ensure that the COVID-19 pandemic is defeated. 