Mr. Segun Balogun, the Group Managing Director/CEO, LASACO Assurance Plc, in this interview with ZAKA KHALIQ, spoke about the hostile investment climate that is affecting annuity business as well as the plan of his company to meet the ongoing recapitalisation deadline.  How will the Finance Act 2020 impact the business of underwriting firms in Nigeria? Finance Act 2020 is a commendable initiative for the entire financial service sector, including insurance industry. Looking at the tax of insurance industry, Section 16 of the Income Tax Act is not favourable to insurance companies. This is a section we have been fighting to amend since 2007, but the Finance Act has taken care of that. Another aspect of the Finance Act which is contentious is the issue of Value Added Tax (VAT). The VAT that was raised from five per cent to 7.5 per cent has its implication on our business. It is going to affect us because we (insurers) pay VAT on behalf of the brokers. The Premium is not VATable but, unfortunately, in this environment, there is a market agreement between the brokers and insurers that insurance companies would pay VAT on behalf of the brokers. This invariably implies that the VAT increase will further add up to our operating expenses, which is the only area our concern lies. But as far as Company Income Tax is concerned, it has lightened our tax burden as we are now going to be taxed like other companies are being taxed, unlike what it was prior to now. As regards Contingency Reserves and Retained Earnings, we don’t expect the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to recognise both, even though, the two items are contentious.  But on our part, we are only focusing on the Paid-up Share Capital and Share Premium to get additional N13.4 billion capital to make up the N18 billion capital threshold for a composite company like ours. But if NAICOM finally accepts those two items, it is a plus for us.  Why are life insurance companies like yours cutting down on annuity business? Annuity business is what the insurance company wants to do at least to deepen the insurance market. Then, if you want to deepen the market, you must not be careless with the fund you are receiving and the fact you are going to collect money from annuitants promising them monthly allowance  till they die, means, you have to be extra careful. Now, you may be lucky to see some annuitants die 12 to 13 years after they bought the policy while we have seen scenario where annuitants live for 40 years after the purchase of the policy and keep on collecting their monthly allowance. It then means that, if you are not careful, you will have your fingers burnt.  If you cannot understand the kind of business you are going into, you will hurt yourself and the people you are supposed to be protecting. In this kind of business, you have to invest for the long term and that is why most Life operators invest in bonds. But today, we all know the bond yield is dropping, which invariably means low income from such investment. With what is happening now, nobody knows how the economy is going to play out in the next two to three months now. So, these days, we need to be more careful because if you are not careful and you collect that particular money, you’ve locked yourself out for the next 40 to 50 years. Even when you are not there, you don’t want to be remembered as a manager that caused the downfall of a particular company. So, that means that operators now must be very sure of what they are doing not for today alone but for tomorrow. At the onset, we already said LASACO is not going to be a major player in annuity and we have stopped fresh annuity since January. We are only concentrating on the existing annuitants we have on our books.  Because of the hostile investment climate, we are being very careful so that we don’t turn LASACO, in the next 40 years into a company that people would not remember again that it ever existed.  What plans do you have to shore up your capital base in the ongoing recapitalisation exercise of the insurance industry? In May 2019, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) came up with a revised model of the recapitalisation, using paid-up capital as the benchmark. Initially, the exercise wanted to tier the industry into three categories, namely; Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3, respectively, but the plan died a natural death. For us at LASACO, we are planning to reconstruct our shares. Currently, we have over eight billion shares that have been sold to over 37 million Nigerians at 50 kobo each. So, we want to reconstruct the shares to the extent that the number of shares that have been issued becomes less. So, instead of over nine billion unit of shares that had been issued, we want to reduce it to one third of that which translates to about three billion shares. This means that we have almost six to seven billion shares unissued. The reconstruction means, if you have one unit of shares of LASACO currently trading at 30 kobo, it means one unit of shares of LASACO is now that amount multiplied by three, hence one share is valued at about N90k. What that also means for the investors is iinstead of you getting dividend of 3kobo like we paid in 2017, 4 kobo like we paid in 2018 and an improved one that we are going to pay in 2019, it then means that what we will be paying is going to be something more significant. So, instead of paying 3kobo, it would be 9kobo dividend, instead of paying 4kobo it would be 12k and which is more meaningful than 3kobo dividend. Even at 3kobo that was paid, if you look at all the quoted companies in Nigeria, we don’t have many companies paying as much as 10 per cent of the value of the shares as dividend. If the value of your share is 30k and you pay 3kobo, that’s 10 per cent of the value of your shares. In terms of the ratio of the dividend we are paying over the price of the stock, it is much more meaningful, you are getting better returns on your investment than those bigger companies. We also want to increase the authorised share capital from 10 billion to 20 billion units and we have gotten a certificate from the Corporate Affairs Commission(CAC), saying, our authorized share capital has been increased from 10 billion unit to 20 billion units. What that means is that, we have almost 18 billion unit of shares to issue because from the old one of 10 billion units, we have issued about two billion shares plus new additional 10 billion units making it 18 billion unit of shares. The challenge, however, could be where would the money come from? But we have appropriately planned that. Already, we have 37,000 shareholders and the top 50 shareholders of LASACO controls about 70 per cent of the shareholding, even as the top 10 controls almost 60 per cent. So, we have engaged these top shareholders on our plans and they have already given their consent. However, we will do a private placement because there are companies, individuals who have shown interest to buy into LASACO shares. We will then proceed to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to get its approval before we now come to the public to raise money. On where the money will come from? We have very good assurance from the current major shareholders of LASACO to bring money for us to fully recapitalise. But any good manager will always have contingency plan, should in case the primary plan failed, which I don’t expect anyway, we will fall back on the contingency plan.  What is the current status of LASACO and what is the future target? Already, we have N4.6 billion and we want to recapitalise to N18 billion which is the threshold for a composite company like ours, meaning that, we are looking for extra N13.4 billion to meet the benchmark. So, 70 per cent of this money is coming from these major investors while the remaining 30 per cent will come through private placement. So, by April ending or so, we should conclude our recapitalisation exercise, all things being equal. On the future outlook, we want to diversify our investment into other sectors, just like other big insurance firms across the world, so as to augment the profit we are making from insurance. The plan of LASACO is to be a player in the hospitality industry as well as the real estate industry.