As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, a group of young leaders, under the auspices of The New Leaders Group have joined other prominent corporations and executives to donate towards the fight against Coronavirus in Nigeria. The New Leaders Group has taken it upon themselves to mobilize monetary donations from members to stretch a helping hand in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The donation of Five Million Two Hundred and Sixty-Seven Thousand Naira is drawn from approximately 101 members of the group among whom are Folajimi Lai Mohammed, Alfred Babas, Uzoma Konyeaso, Zainab Galadima, Doyin Alatishe, Shola Ladoja, Marzi A V Orji, Tosin Oshinowo, Sijibomi Ogundele, Joshua J. Omojuwa, Andrew Zidon, Ibidapo Fashina, Hon. Dayo Israel, Sadiq Abacha, Murtala Tukur, Atanda L Fuad, Donald Benibo Wokoma, Onyemelukwe Tochukwu, Habeeb Okunola, Abiodun Osikoya Bizzle, Nkemkanma Kama, Chima Anyaso, Bobo Ajudua, Enniyanna Annumudu, OC and OZ Mbadiwe, Frank Emenike and many others. Speaking on behalf of the group, Sijibomi Ogundele CEO Sujimoto construction reiterated the group’s commitment to investing in society. “For us at ‘the New Leaders Group, we may not have the ability or resources to give as much as Dangote, Atiku or Otedola, but we will still leap at any opportunity to help in the fight against any pandemic that is threatening the development of our great nation. Donating, for us, is more than a Corporate Social Responsibility, it is an obligation, and we all feel that sense of obligation to do so at this time. It is an obligation because we know that if your neighbor is hungry, your chicken is not safe. With that being said, we are using this opportunity to call on every Nigerian from every corner of our nation, to lend a helping hand to their neighbor”. “Social distancing doesn’t mean distancing ourselves from the challenges facing humanity, it means working together to end the spread of this virus while keeping ourselves safe. Today its 5.2 million Naira for Corona Virus, tomorrow, it could be a donation towards education or another effort we feel passionate about. Our vision is to empower each other so that we can have the opportunity to join the league of billionaire donors by converting the ‘M’ in front of our 5 into a B.” “As private citizens, we have a social obligation to be compliant to government directives at all given times, and also, understand that compliance starts from us. Our decision to help humanity through isolation, identification and reporting cases of infected individuals will assist in flattening the curve until this epidemic is over. Kindly stay at home and be a whistleblower for the betterment of our great nation”, Mr. Ogundele noted.