Kwara state governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq has felicitated with the Christian community in the state on the occasion of Easter celebration. Also, the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Salihu Yakubu Danladi, has felicitated with the Christians on the occasion. AbdulRazaq in a statement by his chief press secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye said:“My sincere greetings and best wishes go to our Christian brethren as we commemorate one of the most historic moments of human history: Easter. It is significant that this is coming at a time of yet another historic trial for the human race. Our belief in God, our resolve to bond together, and our personal and collective discipline are again being tested. I’m certain we will emerge from this trial better and stronger together,” the Governor said in a statement by his media spokesman Rafiu Ajakaye. “I understand just how tough it is to be asked to stay at home and apart at this time when families usually come together to celebrate Christ’s selflessness and sacrifice. I appeal to all of us to take this as a trial. To beat the COVID-19 pandemic, I urge everyone to abide by all the precautions to flatten the curve of transmission and be safe. “As we deploy every scientific prescriptions to defeat this enemy, let us use this moment to pray to God to save the human race from this pandemic and other calamities.” In his own message signed by his media aide, Ibrahim Sheriff , Speaker Danladi asked Nigerians to be prayerful and exhibit love and sacrifice at this trying time in the spirit of Easter celebration. He said Nigerians have every reason to thank God and maintain their commitment to serving Him through humanity by showing love and sacrifice to ourselves. He added: “I congratulate our Christian brothers and sisters for the grace of witnessing yet, another Easter celebration. It is indeed a rare opportunity for us all to rededicate our commitment to loving ourselves regardless of social differences and making sacrifice for humanity. “We must live by the lessons of unconditional love of God, His incredible power, selflessness and commitment to whatever cause we believe in, especially at this trying time of global emergency, with a strong hope that it is only another test of the strength of our faiths and humanity”.