The President of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria(CIIN), Mr Eddie Efekoha and the Director-General of the Institute, Mr Richard Borokini, have called for a joint effort of insurance industry stakeholders to support the fight against the global pandemic, COVID-19. In a message to insurance industry stakeholders, Efekoha stated that the fallout from the current pandemic has called for citizens of the country to be responsible for their wellbeing as well as the safety of other citizens. He urged the public to observe all the guidelines and laws laid down by the relevant agencies including The World Health Organisation (WHO), The Federal Ministry of Health, NCDC and State Government instruments. Efekoha also extended his gratitude to the Nigeria Insurers Association(NIA) for its health cover initiative which guarantees a N1 million free life insurance cover for each health personnel and allied professional attending to COVID-19 case. He stated that this scourge required a committed and joint effort by all stakeholders in the Insurance industry and beyond in order to combine resources and expertise for the ultimate victory. He equally commended the regulator, that is , the National Insurance Commission(NAICOM) for its palliatives to the industry and Insurance companies who have commenced sensitisation campaigns and equally pledged to contribute to a common kitty under the care of the NIA to procure testing and protective kits for medical personnel. He opined that in the fight against COVID 19, the extra motivation for the frontline workers would come from tangible support from stakeholders to ensure efficient working tools are provided in order to ensure the protection of all lives as well as good welfare packages during this period. Similarly, the DG of CIIN, Mr. Richard Borokini urged Nigerians to observe the hygiene, isolation and quarantine procedures communicated by the agencies at the forefront in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Borokini showered encomiums on all healthcare professionals in the heat of the battle and prayed that their efforts will not go in vain. He expressed optimism that with all hands on deck and in cooperation, the nation would emerge victorious in this battle against an enemy which has already caused extensive damage to lives and to economies all over the world. While acknowledging the impact of events on the Institute’s calendar, he assured members that new dates for all the events affected by the Corona Virus pandemic will be communicated to members as soon as normalcy is returned.