Eighty-two high tension poles, five media advertising billboards and two television and radio station masts have been destroyed by rainstorm which occurred in the last three days in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. While the management of the Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution (PHED) confirmed yesterday that the heavy wind shattered 15 high tension poles on Imirigi, six poles at Agudama, five poles at Opolo and one pole at Tungbo 33kv feeders,the destruction has thrown the areas into total darkness. “A two days late night storm on Sunday and Wednesday destroyed the Transmission mast and office buildings belonging to the State Broadcasting Corporation, Radio Bayelsa along the Azikoro road area of Yenagoa and African Independent Television (AIT) station along the Elebele road area of the State capital. The rainstorm brought down the mast of the station which also plays host to the transmitters of Radio Nigeria’s Creek FM and the Nigeria Television Authority”, Manager, Corporate communications of the PHED, John Onyi, said. Onyi also confirmed that the Bayelsa Zone offices of PHED located at Ahoada, Buguma and Emuoha in Rivers State were not left out as 21, 7 and 27 poles respectively were destroyed leaving the areas and their environs without power supply. He however, confirmed the technical crew from the company has since been mobilized to the various sites to ensure the erection of the poles which will lead to restoration of supply to the affected areas. “Similarly, a faulty Transmission equipment located inside the Station at Ahoada is being attended to by the crew of TCN with a view to getting them fixed before the poles are mounted”. “Customers of PHED are therefore, advised to be patient while waiting for the restoration of power by both teams”. The destruction of the masts belonging to the AIT, the Bayelsa Radio Corporation and the NTA was caused by two separate rainstorms which occurred on Sunday and Wednesday nights pulled down the mast of the 97.1 FM station located at Ekeki in Yenagoa, the state capital and lasted almost thirty minutes. The storm left in its wake destruction of property and buildings, leaving some Residents of Yenagoa and other towns with losses to count. The rainstorm equally wreaked havoc on roofs, electrical poles and wires, billboards and buildings in parts of the State capital. Worse hit was the Bayelsa State Radio Corporation, Radio Bayelsa resulting in the collapse of the mast at the station with several buildings including the General Manager’s office, the make shift live studios and administrative building . The Acting General Manager of the station, Mrs. Pere Obobo described the incident as a monumental loss.Also affected were the transmitters of NTA Yenagoa and Radio Nigeria’s Creek FM as explained by the General Manager, Mr. Sunday Udosen. The Chief of Staff, Government House, Chief Benson Agadaga who was among the early visitors to the station, gave an assurance that government would work towards fixing the damage at Radio Bayelsa.