ANTHONY AWUNOR reports that a post COVID-19 recovery strategy is necessary for operators in Nigeria’s aviation sector, so as to put them back on track. The air travel restrictions which were imposed globally as a measure to contain the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic is no doubt, affecting the Nigerian aviation industry badly. Recently, the federal government added yet another two weeks to the closure of international airports in the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika who made the announcement, said the airports would no longer open for commercial operations on April 23 as earlier announced when they were shut down due to the extended lockdown in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun State.  Recall that the federal government shut all international airports in the country on Monday, March 23 for one month.  President Muhammadu Buhari, had also extended the closure to all local airports in the country while announcing 14-day lockdown in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun States on March 29. On April 13, the president had extended the lockdown in the three cities by two weeks. Although, airports in the country are open to emergency and essential flights, commercial flight operations, most of them, are at the brink of collapse.   Stimulus Package Rings Out Worried by what he called the “severe” impact of coronavirus pandemic on the aviation industry, aviation analyst and the chief executive officer of Belujane Konzult, Mr. Chris Aligbe told Sunday LEADERSHIP that there is need to be concerned over impending collapse of the industry.  Aligbe said this was as a result of the travel restriction which was imposed globally as a measure to contain the covid-19 pandemic.  Speaking on the development, Aligbe noted that the entire spectrum of the industry – the aviation agencies, the airlines, the handling companies and other aviation allied support service providers – are reeling from the impact of the coronavirus induced shutdown. To get the industry back on its feet after the pandemic, he advocated for allocations to agencies like the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) which depends on flights to generate revenues to run the 22 airports under its purview. According to Aligbe, with the suspension of flights by both domestic and foreign airlines, FAAN revenue base, both aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenue, has disappeared. He also said for airlines to remain alive after the pandemic, government must support them with grants to stay afloat and keep people in their employ.  He said though the airlines as well as handling companies like the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCo) and the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) are private businesses, they contribute to the gross domestic product (GDP) with the employments they create and the taxes they pay. Aligbe noted that just like FAAN, the Nigeria Air Space Management Agency (NAMA), the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) as well as the Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) need some lifelines to survive the covid-19 crisis. He noted that NAMA which depends on overflight charges, air route charges to sustain its operation is suffering because there are no flights. He said, “The more flights you have into an airport, the more likely businesses will develop around the airport. The main revenue generation, the passenger sale charge (PSC), the ticket sale charge (TSC), which is the main revenue that is generated and shared among the parastatals particularly like the regulatory body that does not engage in business like the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) and Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) though NIMET engages in business limitedly.  “But the FAAN engages in business and its business is dependent on a lot of flights that come in; the landing and parking charges, the rentals, and all other businesses whether you are talking about airport charges, whether you are talking about toll gate charges, duty free shops or eateries, restaurants, it all depends on whether the people are coming, it depends on the travelling passengers and more importantly, it depends on meeters and greeters.  “Now FAAN cannot get that because flights are not coming, all businesses are shut down and more importantly on the side of FAAN, they are losing both aeronautical and nonaeronautical revenues. They have lost it and there is no other place for them to generate any fund,” he said. Aligbe further averred that the case of FAAN is very severe because they must serve people to run the airports. “People must be at the airports, the AVSEC (Aviation Security) personnel must be there, people would be there to maintain the airports to ensure the facilities don’t wear out. Where would they generate the money? And they don’t receive annual budgetary subvention. “So, something seriously has to be done, not just FAAN, I just used FAAN because its case is very severe. The same thing happens to NAMA. NAMA generates funds from overflights, air route charges, it cannot now, there are no overflight charges now, not much of air route charges, air planes are not flying, and most countries of the world are shut down.”  Opportunity For National Carrier Aligbe also said for the airline, a loan of less than five per cent payable in 15-20 years must be made available.  Despite the intervention, he averred that it would take not less than two years for airlines to bounce back and be able to expand.  He said within this period, government can push the national carrier project to be able to generate employment in the aviation industry immediately after the covid-19 pandemic. “Coronavirus will come and go, the industry will have to, not just continue, but the industry will have to grow, it should not be left to stagnate. If the industry stagnates, its contributions to economy will stop.    “This is why I will come to the point people have talked over time about national carrier and all those things. Yes government doesn’t have money but luckily what is being programmed is not a government-funded or government-owned national carrier. Government is just to put in something to kick-start it. Incentives Inevitable “But in a situation where government says, ‘we can’t make budgetary allocation for this’, for the airlines including the existing domestic airlines and the programmed national carrier, let there be a loanable fund, an intervention fund, soft loan of very low single-digit interest rate and long term – between 10 and 15 years maximum to be provided by the Central Bank,” Aligbe added.   Meanwhile, the Accountable Manager of Dana Air, Obi Mbanuzuo, advised that the VAT which contributes to the high cost of airfares should be removed. While speaking on the impact of Covid-19 on domestic airlines, Obi said, ‘’domestic airlines have lost over N360 billion to this pandemic and still counting. We do not know when it will be over.’ ‘’Their charges, fees, allowances, salaries, aircraft leases, taxes all pending and over 100 aircraft parked nationwide without generating a dime. The VAT which contributes to the high cost of airfares is yet to be removed. These are the issues and the government needs to seriously consider helping airlines to survive this trying time.’’ he added.      Also, former Acting MD/ CEO of Nahco Aviance, and current CEO, Mainstream Cargo Limited, Seyi Adewale, is of the view that government-led stimulus packages and incentives are inevitable to limit the negative impact of this pandemic on the aviation subsector.     According to Adewale, “these include deliberate sourcing, loans, grants, tax waivers, special forex windows and rates, airport infrastructure deliberate upgrades or construction, and reduction of airport taxes or surcharges.” AON Plea For Rescue Plan Adding their voice, the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) has equally called on federal government to use its machinery to kindly consider and immediately approve its recommended rescue plan for recovery of the Nigerian Economy and the Nigerian aviation industry post COVID19.    Saluting government’s courage to control the spread of the Coronavirus in the country, AON had recommended implementation of President Muhammadu Buhari’s Executive Order on Removal of VAT from all forms of transportation as domestic airlines are still the only form of transportation paying VAT. The operators also advocated suspension of all NCAA, FAAN, and NAMA charges for domestic operations within the country for 180 days, just as it raised the need for subsidy for payment of workers’ salaries at least to cover six months from March to September 2020 so that staff are not sacked.  In an official statement issued recently and signed by the chairman of AON, Capt Nogie Meggison, the airline operators also raised the issue of support towards augmenting insurance premiums which are dollar denominated, as well as augmenting payment for international leases and rentals on the over 120 grounded commercial aircraft that must be paid; access to Foreign Exchange at the first tier rate given to Agric producers and pilgrims, etc. According to AON, they believe that the above measures are practical steps that will be a win strategy for all players in the sector and that will jumpstart the wheel of the Nigerian economy to keep moving as it will cushion the impact on the financial exposure of the Nigerian economy.  “It is our firm conviction that it is better to keep the aviation industry going today than to kill the goose that lays the golden egg at the expense of over 251,000 Nigeria Aviation jobs and recovery of our fragile economy today. “We therefore call on government to use its machinery to kindly consider and immediately approve the above rescue plan for recovery of the Nigerian Economy and the Nigerian aviation industry post COVID19 and to support domestic airlines to survive which is a catalyst of any economy worldwide”, the operators stated. Fearful Statistics For Airlines The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has noted that the COVID-19 crisis will see airline passenger revenues loss by $314 billion in 2020, putting at risk 25 million jobs that are dependent on aviation globally.   AON further stressed that, as a result of the COVID19, Nigeria aviation has an exposure of about 251,000 direct job losses according to IATA, including the various parastatals, ground handling and support service providers, etc.