Yobe State Universal Basic Education (SUBEB) is currently constructing six model schools in Potiskum, Damaturu, Nguru, Gashu’a local government areas and Buni-Yadi the headquarters of Gujba local government area at the cost of N1.8b. The Executive Chairman Yobe State Universal Basic Education Prof. Musa Alabe while speaking on the projects said the model schools were designed to accommodate more pupils with a view to decongest schools in places like Potiskum and Damaturu among others. Alabe said the model schools awarded at the cost of about N300m each is designed to house six classes of five upstairs making it 30 classrooms per model school in addition to administrative blocks as well as teaching and learning materials. The professor said, “We prioritize projects based on the mission of his Excellency Governor Mai Mala Buni’s of revitalizing basic education and as I am talking to you, some of the model schools under construction are completed with sets of classroom fully equipped with teaching and learning materials. “We have a lot of projects going on in all the primary schools across the state. In some primary schools we provide furniture because there are some that are lacking furniture so we supply. We also renovate classes in some primary schools while in other we are constructing classes.” Alabe added. The SUBEB Boss disclosed that apart from the construction of model schools by the board, plans are on top gear to construct mega schools in the major towns of Potiskum, Damaturu, Buni-Yadi, Nguru and Gashu’a all geared towards providing the much needed infrastructure as well as conducive teaching and learning atmosphere in the state. Algabe said, “The Mega schools were designed to be bigger than the model schools under construction and we hope to establish three to four of these mega schools in each local government area before the expiration of the tenure of His Excellency Hon. Mai Mala Buni.” The Prof. revealed that plans are also underway to recruit additional qualified teachers through a process designed to get capable hands that will impact knowledge to the pupils and students of junior schools in the state.   