Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State has cut the salaries of all his senior government appointees by 50 per cent. Those affected by the measure, el-Rufai announced yesterday in Kaduna, are commissioners, permanent secretaries, special advisers and heads of agencies, who are to donate the salaries in April 2020 as their contributions to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in the state. In a statement issued by his media adviser, Muyiwa Adekeye, el-Rufai said that the extension of the quarantine conditions by another 30 days imposes an obligation to make provision for the low income, poor and vulnerable persons that would be adversely affected, as they may be unable to earn any income while the lockdown persists. He therefore directed that the political appointees to donate 50 per cent of their salaries until the quarantine ends. The governor noted that other categories of political appointees would also make monthly donations to support the provision of relief to the low income, poor and vulnerable residents of the state. He said that career public servants earning a net pay of N67,000 and above after tax to donate 25per cent of their monthly pay whilst the quarantine conditions were in place, adding that no public servant would have less N50,000 monthly to manage in this emergency period. el-Rufai said: “We are obliged to demonstrate that as government workers, we care enough for others to donate part of our earnings for their wellbeing. As a state government, we are also seeking donations from high networth individuals, the private sector and development partners to support our efforts to contain Covid-19 and its consequences”. “To fund the provision of these support packages, the Kaduna State government expects all those fortunate enough to still earn a regular income to live up to their neighbourly responsibility towards those who are unable to earn any money due to no fault of theirs. Therefore, the less than 100, 000 persons who work for the Kaduna State government as political appointees and public servants must contribute financially towards enabling the almost 10 million persons living in the state to survive and thrive in this emergency period,” he said.  