The Cross River State Government has called on the President Muhammadu Buhari’s led administration to assist the state in the construction a factory that will be producing vaccines that will tackle the menace of COVID — 19 to take care of those that will be infected with the virus. According to the state Government the factory if become fully operational can produced vaccines that will be distribute to other African nations to tackle the scourge of the pandemic. The State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Betta Edu made the call Wednesday in Calabar while giving an update on efforts by the government to contain the outbreak COVID 19 in the state. The Commissionervwho doubles as state chairman COVID–19, decried that only 50 testing kits were made available to the state by the National Centre for Diseases Control to embark on community testing of samples stressing that 50 kits were inadequate. The government also decried the impression created in some quarters that the state must have an index case of Covid 19 despite evidence to the contrary that Cross River State does not have any index case.
Edu said, “We were told we have not tested enough that’s why we have not had a case but the total number of sample collection kits sent from the federal government to Cross River is 50 for a population of 4.5 million people. “With 50 sample collection kits for a population of 4.5 million how many tests do you expect to be produced in a week? We need more of the sample kits for us to be able to get samples in their numbers as they have asked for. “These things are not available and you expect us to embark on community sample collection to end to Irua or Ebonyi. She decried the pressure being exerted on the state by some quarters to embark on community testing stressing that this cannot be done because of the limitation and every sickness is not Covid 19. “Its amazing and indeed mind troubling that persons at different levels will continue to insist that Cross River State must have a case. “IN all our efforts to contain an outbreak of the virus in the state, we have not had one commendation from the federal government or the NCDC boss to say we started on time and have done well and the country should emulate and replicate what you are doing. “Yet we hear people say that all states in Nigeria must have COVID 19 and it is almost becoming a battle to ensure that whether true or not all states in Nigeria have COVID 19. The pressure on all parties is becoming too much and unnecessary for the state. “The Federal government should come and support us in the things we are doing right by producing face masts for our people and the entire country. “The federal government should isolate states that have done well during this period in the way that they require. “Every body does not need a ventilator. We don’t have a case now and don’t need a ventilator as an emergency. “What we need as an emergency is to keep my borders shut so that the over 50,000 Cameroonians that are trying to get into Cross River State can be held out during this period. “We need stipends to pay the surveillance officers who will go round and look for any of these cases in our rural communities. “The Federal government should come in and support the state particularly in security at the international border so that Cameroonians will not come in through bush tracks and other formally designated areas because we are spending so much on the local vigilante, chiefs and government officials, we need help at this time. “We need support from the federal government to produce more face masts so that we can cut the transmission cycle and people don’t get infected. We should deal with states on a case by case basis not a one size fits all”, she said.