…as members back mandatory facemask policy …c’ttee seeks role for Edo doctors in diaspora in curbing pandemic The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has inaugurated the Edo State Coronavirus (COVID-19) Fundraising Committee expected to mobilise resources to fortify the state’s government’s response to check the spread of the virus in the state. The governor, who inaugurated the committee during a virtual meeting held on Monday, April 20, 2020, said the state government was mobilising resources and support from different bodies to bolster its response mechanism. According to the governor, “You have been doing a lot to support efforts at containing the spread of the virus, but we need to coordinate this better. Join us to flatten the curve, so we don’t find ourselves in an unfortunate situation.” Obaseki expressed appreciation to illustrious sons and daughters of the state who have continued to support government’s effort, noting that with the support of partners, it has provided life insurance cover just as MTN Nigeria has provided support for the activation of the EdoBEST-at-Home initiative. Principal Partner of George Etomi and Partners, George Etomi, said there is need to pass the message of hope as a good number of people are recovering from the coronavirus, noting, “Also, we need to be worried about the economy of the state. We must look inward. We need to look at agriculture, education, among others, in a post COVID-19 economy.” He noted that there was need to mobilise Edo doctors in the diaspora to contribute to the efforts being made by the state government to combat the pandemic, especially through telemedicine.
Other members of the committee stressed the need to ramp up testing capacity, noting that the establishment of more testing centres was a proactive and commendable move. They expressed delight in government’s proactive management and governance framework in managing the pandemic, noting that the facemask policy must be aggressively enforced to check the spread of the virus in the state.