As the Coronavirus pandemic continues to afflict the whole world, scientists, research institutes, medical experts and universities have deepened the search for vaccines and other lasting cure for the disease. Under the World Health Organization’s coordination, a group of experts with diverse backgrounds is working towards the development of vaccines against the scourge, LEADERSHIP Weekend has learnt. The group, in its declaration, said, “We are scientists, physicians, funders and manufacturers who have come together as part of an international collaboration, coordinated by the World Health Organization (WHO), to help speed the availability of a vaccine against COVID-19. “We will continue efforts to strengthen the unprecedented worldwide collaboration, cooperation and sharing of data already underway. We believe these efforts will help reduce inefficiencies and duplication of effort, and we will work tenaciously to increase the likelihood that one or more safe and effective vaccines will soon be made available to all.” However, among the over 120 experts and institutions involved in this collaborative effort, Shabir Madhi of the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa, is the only scientist from an institution in the entire Africa who is part of the research. Others are mainly from the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Spain, France, Netherlands, Korea, China, among others. But indigenously, medical experts, health researchers and herbal doctors in Nigeria are not giving up as they too have intensified the search for vaccines to contain the virus. The president, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, told LEADERSHIP Weekend that it is high time government started investing the funds donated to combat COVID-19 in research and other pharmaceutical activities in the country, adding that the pandemic was an opportunity for the nation to rewrite all the wrongs and prepare for the future. “I think government ought to put money now into research. We can even use the money people are donating for research and give a target. Honestly, if we miss this opportunity, we will regret it,” he stated. Ohuabunwa who lamented that research institutes in the country were not funded said, “There are so many research institutes that were set up long time ago. If you go there, they are a shadow of themselves because they are not funded. They are only able to pay salary, and sometimes they are not able to pay their staff. They can’t even maintain their buildings not to talk of improvement. Many of them are under the ministry of science and technology. “We haven’t shown seriousness in dealing with this issue in a fundamental manner. I just pray God will give our leaders the motivation now to make use of this opportunity because if we miss this opportunity, we probably may regret it for long”. Speaking with our correspondent on the issue, the immediate past chief medical director of University of Uyo Teaching Hospital, Professor Ettete Peters said that in finding a cure to the virus Nigerian scientists and experts are currently working in collaboration with their counterpart in other countries where research on development of a vaccine is ongoing through the World Health Organization (WHO) in order to find a cure. Also, a Nigerian professor of Pharmacognosy, Maurice Iwu, while briefing journalists recently in Imo State, said that a drug for the treatment of coronavirus might be ready very soon Iwu who is a former chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and chairman of the Imo State Taskforce on COVID-19 stated that the work on the drug was  still ongoing. “We are encouraged by the result we are getting. We are getting very positive signs,” he stated. It was earlier reported that Iwu and his team had developed a drug that can cure coronavirus. Reacting to this, the minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, dismissed the reports stating that Iwu had developed the drug against SARS and suggested that since the virus has a relationship with COVID-19, it could also be applied. Also, the director-general of the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD), Dr Obi Adigwe, has said the institute was profiling and modeling phytomedicine which is sourced from natural plant in the country that may have properties to treat viruses like coronavirus. He said it was also an opportunity to bring to the fore medicine security concept which he said the institute had been pushing for. Recently, a Kaduna based scientist and leading Nigerian medical researcher, Professor Ayodele Israel Adeleye, had said he was fully prepared and ready to treat five coronavirus positive patients free of charge to further prove the efficacy of his therapy. Professor Adeleye, a former lecturer of Microbiology and former principal staff of Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH) Zaria, made the revelation while addressing world press conference recently in Kaduna on his breakthrough on cure for coronavirus. He said his three-day Coronavirus cure discovery was so certain and assured that if adopted the current lockdown in Nigeria and the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic would become history. Adeleye, a fist class ABU graduate who majored in parasitology, told journalists in his office at Yaro Medicare lab and research centre, Kaduna that he was challenging the Nigerian government to give him five patients who have tested positive to the deadly virus for treatment. Also, a naturopathic medical expert and biochemist, Dr Qazeem Olawale, has expressed his readiness to find a cure for COVID-19. Qazeem who laid claims to successes in the treatment of viral and life-threatening diseases such as HIV and Hepatitis said he could be of help in finding lasting solution to the coronavirus pandemic if given the opportunity. He said COVID-19 is not as tough as it is if a system of integrative medicine is established On his part, a medical laboratory scientist, Dr Ishaku Akyala, has said that the fight against COVID-19 would be more effective if the federal government decentralise testing centres and launch a research on the vaccine to cure the virus. Dr Akyala who is also a lecturer at the department of Natural and Applied Science of Nasarawa State University said that he and colleagues his can produce diagnostic testing kits that can be used for testing in all general hospitals in Nigeria. Speaking exclusively with LEADERSHIP Weekend, the medical laboratory scientist said it was time for Nigeria to prioritize research, adding that federal government should domesticate the fight against COVID-19. Just like in February 2018 when he claimed he had discovered a cure for Human Immune Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS), Prof Maduike Ezeibe has announced that the same medication can cure coronavirus. The dean, College of Veterinary Medicine, Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike (MOUAU), avered that the medication, Medicina Synthetic Aluminium Magnesium Silicate (MSAMS) could also cure the coronavirus pandemic. According to him, “MSAMS cures all viral diseases because of its electrostatic attractions,” adding that the medication has both positively and negatively charged ends. The Dean of Faculty of Sciences, Rivers State University, Professor Confidence -Nwachukwu, has said the molecular analysts from the university can help in the fight against coronavirus in the country. Nwachukwu who spoke in Port Harcourt said the Faculty of Sciences has been working to help Rivers State at this critical time. He said, “Apart from the hand sanitizers we produced, we also have the man-power, the expertise in molecular analysis. “In the Department of Medical Laboratory Science, we have about five staff that are well-qualified, well-trained in handling molecular issues. We can also make available our staff if need be to assist in carrying out some of these tests.” Meanwhile, an herbal medicine practitioner in Rivers State, Kelvin Nengia, has said due to lack of research, herbal medicine cannot cure coronavirus but can serve as preventive measure. Nengia who disclosed this in Port Harcourt said, “There is need for more research on herbal medicine because the efficacy of herbs is limited and cannot actually give a cure to Coronavirus. Also, a renowned trado-medicine practitioner in Delta State, Chief Edwin Abugo, said although he has not treated any coronavirus patient, from what has been said about the virus, he was sure that from his menu of remedies such as steam treatment from boiling dogoyaro, ginger, garlic, tumeric can take care of COVID-19. Even though no government agencies have contacted him to provide solutions to the coronavirus, he insisted that steam treatment from boiling water mixed with onions, garlic, ginger and tumeric can cure the infections. In Enugu, a herbalist, Mr Uchenna Onyia, advised the government to give herbal doctors financial assistance to enable them find a cure for the deadly coronavirus. Speaking to our reporter, Onyia said he could get herbs that would provide permanent solution to the pandemic ravaging the country. He claimed that more deadly viruses that occurred in the past were treated by herbalists with herbs, even as he maintained that Africans have herbs that can cure the virus He said it was unfortunate that despite claims by known herbalists and even Professors from Nigeria that they could cure the virus, Nigerian government have refused to listen to them A Pharmacologist and fellow of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria and Alternative Medicine Practitioners, Dr Ben Amodu, has said that he can cure the dreaded coronavirus within 10 days after a person had been diagnosed to have contracted the virus. Amodu, in an interview with LEADERSHIP Weekend said that he had developed vaccines that could assist the federal government in the fight against the virus ravaging the world if given the opportunity to partner with the Nigerian government. The Pharmacologist who said he is also a lead phytomedicine researcher into communicable and none communicable diseases, described coronavirus as a communicable disease through person to person contacts. Also, speaking to our correspondent in Jos, Prince Yakubu Baba Kogi of Herbal Centre lamented that state and federal governments have not been supporting them in their effort to promote Nigerian herbal medicine. He pointed out that they could cure even HIV and coronavirus but the federal government has refused to recognise and support them. Baba Kogi also said the TIANCHI products are Chinese products which are being supported by the Chinese government, lamenting that in Nigeria there was nothing like government support. He pleaded for adequate support from government at all levels so that traditional medicine practitioners can be included in the scheme of things. But the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) has called on Nigeria to pray for the availability of antibiotics that are capable of boosting the immune system to resist or cure coronavirus in the body, saying coronavirus has come to stay. The chairman, Delta State chapter of NMA, Dr Ekeneam Omo, who disclosed this in a press conference yesterday in Asaba, appealed to government at all levels to hasten up palliative measures to the citizens observing the lockdown. 