The federal government has acquired 17 new armoured tanks and artillery vehicles to tackle insecurity and insurgency in the country. Army Chief of Policy and Plans, Lt-Gen. Lamidi Adeosun, disclosed this to journalists in Lagos. He said that the sophisticated machines and equipment were facilitated by the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) through the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA) in Lagos. Adeosun said that the process of acquiring the equipment had been on for long, saying that the process had been accomplished with the delivery of the armament to the country. He said: ”We are here to witness the receipt of the armament, which the government of Nigeria through the Ministry of Defence has procured for the Nigeria Army. “You can see how serious the government of Nigeria is in making sure that not only is the Army re-equipped as necessary, but to ensure that the insecurity problem we are having all over the country are tackled not only with trained personnel, but the required equipment. “We can see for ourselves, this is just a tip of the iceberg and many others are still coming, but it is important that we all see that both the military and the government are really very serious in tackling the security problems across the nation,” he stated. According to him, the equipment acquired from China, are heavy and light tanks and two types of artillery heavy guns. “They are new ones, the latest technology in tank and artillery armament is what you are seeing. Before today, the first set of 15 40-feet containers offloaded from the sea, made up of spare parts and accessories, for all these equipment. Those ones are already on their way to their various destinations,” he stated. Buratai Inducts 55 All-terrain Buffalo Cars Also yesterday, the chief of army staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, commissioned 55 Buffalo 4-wheel all-terrain vehicles to increase the mobility and combat sufficiency of troops against the boko haram terrorists in the Northeast zone. Buratia, who was represented by the chief of Logistics, Maj-Gen. Joel Uniugbe, said that the model of vehicles is an asset and a force-multiplier, particularly in the Northeast where the armed forces is conducting operations. “This model of vehicle is an asset and indeed a force multiplier particularly in the Northeast terrain where the Armed Forces of Nigeria are conducting operations against boko haram criminals. “It is, therefore, my belief that the vehicles will increase the mobility and combat efficiency of troops in mission areas,” he said Buratai said that the strategic directive of the COAS for 2020 is to sustain logistics support for all Nigerian Army formations/units in operations. He said: “All the formations and units of the Nigerian Army across the country have continued to be issued with various types of vehicles for troops’ mobility, movement of logistics and combat manoeuvres. “These include Toyota Hiluxes, Buffaloes, Innoson Motor vehicles and Peugeot amongst others. Accordingly, today, I’m privileged to becommissioning on behalf of the chief of army staff, 55 Buffalo four- wheel all-terrain vehicles,” he stressed. Troops Neutralise 2 Terrorists, Recover 3 Gun Trucks Meanwhile, the military in continuation of the ongoing aggressive operations in the Northeast Theatre of Operation has neutralised two boko haram terrorists, recovered three gun trucks, and other weapons in clearance operations. A press statement issued by the acting director, Defence Media Operations, Brig-Gen. Benard Onyeuko, said that the feat was achieved when troops of 3 Battalion/Quick Response Force Army Super Camp 11, Gamboru in Borno State on targeted patrol engaged in a fierce battle with some boko haram/ISWAP marauders in a convoy of seven gun trucks and motorcycles approaching the battalion’s location at about 1800 hours on 7th April, 2020.” He said that troops overpowered the terrorists who withdrew in disarray and were aggressively pursued up to Wurge axis by the gallant troops/the Quick Response Force. “The fierce fire fight led to the death of two terrorists and an unconfirmed number were wounded,” he said. The items recovered from the insurgents after the exploitation included three gun trucks, two anti -aircraft guns, two AK-47 rifles, one HK-21 rifle and one Rocket Propelled Grenade Tube. Others were Multi Links, 101.5 mm ammunition, two magazines and a Bluetooth speaker with boko haram terrorists’ victory song. 