President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met with members of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on Covid -19. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that from indications, the president is set to extend the lockdown for another two weeks in Lagos, Ogun, FCT and some other states of the federation. President Buhari who pleaded for more patience and understanding by Nigerians said efforts are intensified by Government towards containing the coronavirus pandemic in the country. At the strategic engagement with the Presidential Task Force on COVID -19, the president expressed optimism that the curve will be flattened as the nation aggressively and appropriately responds to the uncommon enemy of mankind. President Buhari who expressed satisfaction with the transparent way and manner the task force has engaged critical stakeholders in carrying out assigned responsibilities noted that Nigeria will come out of the situation stronger and as quickly as possible. During the meeting held behind closed doors, the presidential task force provided the president with the basic facts on ground as well as options that will guide him in deciding whether or not the cessation of all movements in parts of the country was to be extended. The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force was accompanied to the presidential villa by the national coordinator of the task force, Dr Sani Aliyu; minister of Health Dr Osagie Ehanire and the DG of NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu. Similarly, the president met with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on the economic stimulus plan. Osinbajo is the chairman of the high powered economic sustainability committee constituted by President Buhari as part of the national response strategy towards alleviating the suffering of Nigerians as the country battles the COVID-19 pandemic. At This meeting, President Buhari and Osinbajo compared notes on what more can be done for the poor in the face of the stringent measures put in place by government to check the spread of coronavirus in the country. The vice president told journalists that discussions centred on how to resolve some of the very pressing issues around COVID -19 and indeed the economy.