The National League of Veteran Journalists (NALVEJ) has urged the Presidential Task force on Covid-19 pandemic to invite a large number of Chinese and Cuban medical experts who have succeeded in curing the virus in China and Italy to help tackle the disease in Nigeria. NALVEJ while calling for a more pragmatic and curative strategic way of combating coronavirus rather said the number of Chinese being invited to help tackle the virus is not enough. They further said rather than spending all energy on avoiding the virus spread, the veteran journalists said it was time to adopt the use of a combination of known drugs such as Chloroquine, Hydrochloroquine, Zinc and PZ capsules which has cured the virus within four days as cited in reports from advanced countries. In a statement, the national president of NALVEJ, Chief Oliver Okpala argued that the current strategy of sensitisation, wearing of nose masks, and lockdown as well as social distance were not curative. ”The virus has already infected many people who are at the risk of death, therefore we should be talking of how to treat those already infected and eliminate the spread. “Unfortunately what we have seen so far is that efforts are geared towards containing the spread,  what are we doing about those who have already  contracted the virus? “In countries where the citizens were severely infected like Italy we saw how their government imported Cubans who cured their people as they were massively infected. Italy had over 3000 cases with several deaths. Today, the Cubans have almost curred everyone infected. ”And in China, where the disease emanated from,  the doctors have succeeded in closing all the emergency hospitals they had set up and their doctors and nurses have returned to their former offices to resume normal work because all those infected have been cured.” Okpala noted while the Federal government has invited about eight Chinese to help with the situation in Nigeria, “we know that that number is grossly inadequate.” He added, “Now that those Chinese medical personnel are free, the Nigerian government can take advantage of their expertise by bringing them in their lager number in commensurate measure with our large population. ”Why not bring in at least 100 experts that can within 48 hours cure a large number of those infected which is almost 200 persons in Nigeria now? “If they were able to treat about 330 cases Within 24 hours in Italy, the number of those infected in Nigeria  is insignificant and they can cure them within 4 hours and save more Nigerians. Okpala added, it is only when these people have been cured that we can now talk of preventing further infections and spread. “These huge sums of monies donated by individuals and the  private sector should be used to accomplish this without delay. We cannot have such monies donated and wait to see people’ s lives being put at risk.  Why keep the money in a special funds account while the virus is on the fast rise? “We should waste no time in flying in these experts from China and Cuba with the drugs they have used to treat people successfully. ”As a body of veteran Journalists, a profession that is always in the forefront of national emergencies,  NALVEJ has done a lot in contributing to the fight against the Covid 19 pandemic, but we feel that the government must now take the bull by the horn and save the country from needless deaths by being curative and proactive. ”Reports have shown that advanced countries have been able to cure the virus by the use of a combination of known drugs such as Chloroquine, Hydrochloroquine, Zinc and PZ capsules to cure the virus within four days. So we can key into that as we don’t need to reinvent the wheel while the entire universe awaits a standard cure for the ailment,” he stated. 