Nine persons have been killed by suspected gunmen who struck in Hurra community in Bassa local government area of Plateau State. The attack and death toll was confirmed yesterday by the state government and president of Irigwe Development Association (IDA), Mr Sunday Abdul. LEADERSHIP gathered that several houses were also set ablaze by the gunmen during the attack which occurred in Hurra community, Irigwe chiefdom on Tuesday night. Abdul, who spoke with newsmen in Jos, the state capital, yesterday, condemned the fresh onslaught on his people. He lamented that it was unfortunate that such wickedness could be allowed to take place in the community despite the total lockdown imposed on the people by the state government. He said: “We woke up this morning to the cries and wailings of our people. When I enquired, they told me nine persons including a pregnant woman have again been killed by gunmen who raided Hurra village in Kwall District of Bassa local government area. Several houses have also been burnt down before the attackers left the village. “ According to him, the situation is really hard to understand adding that his  people are observing the lock down as directed by the state government and some other people who feel they can do anything and get away with it came and attacked them, killing nine of the  people and setting their houses on fire. Meanwhile, the commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr Dan Manjang, has said that the state government was aware of the killings in the council. Describing the development as sad, Manjang, who blamed the killings and attacks on crisis merchants whom he said were fueling insecurity in the council area for personal benefits noted that government had sent security operatives to the affected community to contain the situation. The commissioner said: “We are aware of the fresh killings in Bassa. No government will be happy to see its citizens being killed. “It is unfortunate that while government is doing everything possible to ensure the sustenance of peace in the state, some people who were benefiting from the crisis were bent on scuttling government’s efforts but government will not allow them to succeed in their evil agenda.” Manjang added, “The truth is that some people  who are benefiting from the killing would not want the situation to stop. Unless the warring parties come and tell themselves the truth, the situation will continue. Unless those killing their fellow human beings realise that they don’t have the right to take another person’s life, the situation will continue.”