The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has commended the management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for ensuring adequate distribution of petroleum products across the country in the last seven days of the lockdown in some states to curtail the spread of the novel coronavirus. NYCN, in a statement signed by its president, Comrade Solomon Adodo, explained that the council set up a monitoring team to assess the situation following the NNPC’s assurance of the availability of petroleum products. Adodo said: “The National Youth Council of Nigeria is pleased to present her report on the monitoring of the distribution of petroleum products since the commencement of the lockdown and herein expresses total commendation for the efforts of the NNPC which has ensured steady supply and availability of petroleum products across the country. “We recall that days before the lockdown of some states, a vast number of Nigerians had embarked on a binge of panic buying of petroleum products despite the advise from the NNPC. This development necessitated our team to embark on an independent nationwide exercise to monitor the availability and distribution of petroleum products. From results of our field surveys across the country we can boldly say that the panic buying was needless. The NNPC has kept to its word in ensuring constant and efficient availability of petroleum products at recommended prices despite the bottlenecks occasioned by the lockdown. “In times of adversity and challenges as this, the true mettle of leadership is tested and we can boldly attest to the fact that the group managing director of NNPC – Mr. Mele Kyari – has provided the needed leadership in effectively coordinating the stakeholders in the downstream to deliver petroleum products to Nigerians. But for the strategic planning and efforts of the NNPC, Nigerians would have been subjected to compounded hardships in searching for petroleum products with other attendant crisis thrown up,” he said.  