The management of Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL),operator of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation/CNL Joint Venture (NNPC/CNL JV), has refuted allegations that the company quarantined some of its staff suspected of having the Coronavirus in a hotel in Warri, Delta State. Stating that has continued to operate safely, and without any Coronavirus (COVID-19) related incident in its operations. Reacting to speculations that American company quarantined some of its staff suspected of having the Coronavirus in a hotel in Warri, Delta State, general manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, Esimaje Brikinn affirmed that none of CNL’s employees has contracted the COVID-19 virus. Esimaje who gave the explanation in a statement, described CNL as a responsible organisation, stressing that one of the precautionary safeguards it has put in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus into its operations is the introduction of a compulsory two-week supervised quarantine for all personnel returning to work at its Escravos Operations during this period of the pandemic. He stated that based on directive issued by the Federal Government regarding sustained operations in the oil and gas industry, CNL entered into arrangements with some hotels and other facilities in Warri and Lagos where their staff on rotational duties will be accommodated, and their health status monitored to ensure that they do not have the COVID-19 virus before returning to work at its Escravos Operations. According to him, the first group of personnel scheduled for quarantine were moved to the designated facilities on Friday, April 10, 2020 and other groups will follow based on the crew change schedule and the personnel will be required to strictly maintain social distancing protocols, personal hygiene, and use of appropriate personal protection equipment during the supervised quarantine period. We are also working with the hotels and other facilities where the personnel will be placed, to ensure that the hotels and facilities maintain high levels of sanitation and follow strict adherence to all COVID-19 protocols he stated. Esimaje further expand that at the end of the two-week period, only those who are certified free of the COVID-19 virus shall be moved to Escravos and that anyone with suspected symptoms during the period will be subjected to further testing and subsequently transferred to government designated hospitals for further handling in line with the government approved protocols. “Chevron continues to monitor the Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak around the world and has been utilizing the guidance of local and international health authorities. We are regularly updating our workforce and will continue to adjust plans as appropriate as we receive more information. Our top priority is to ensure the wellbeing and safety of our workforce and their family members, and we are taking precautionary measures to reduce the risk of exposure,” he stated. He submitted that the precautionary safeguard enables CNL to provide a controlled environment for very close monitoring of the personnel during the period of the supervised quarantine. He added that in order to make this safeguard effective, all personnel will first be required to provide a comprehensive travel history before they are placed in the supervised quarantine.