The Northern Alternative Forum (NAF) has chided those it described as peddlers of the death rumour of Chief of Staff to the president, Mallam Abba Kyari, saying they are ungodly individuals who are not fit to live in a society of civilised people. Speaking to journalists in Abuja, national chairman of the forum, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, wondered why anyone could wish his fellow human being dead, just as he urged Nigerians to be wary of purveyors of fake news. Ibrahim said, “The erudite Chief of Staff to Mr President, Mallam Abba Kyari, was caught in the web of COVID-19 just like every other person is vulnerable to the global pandemic. He did not hide his status and despite his position as the chief administrator of the seat of power, he humbly submitted himself to be quarantined and undergo treatment. “That was all that some unscrupulous elements in the opposition camp needed to peddle the barabric and satanic rumour that the president’s helmsman was dead. But we shall not dwell angrily on their devilish antics which somehow a blessing in disguise. They only ended wishing the Chief of Staff long life”. The forum noted that rumongers were merely trying to make their wish a reality because the want Kyari out of the way at all cost to page the way for their nefarious and fraudulent activities in the seat of powt. Ibrahim continued: “Kyari, a legal luminary, Banker and seasoned technocrats, is a man who believes in honesty integrity and justice. Out of unwavering courage, Kyari has deliberately fought the bad political parasites bent on truncating the fight against corruption and insecurity. He has been maligned without facts because his traducers are desperate to scandalize and push him out so that they will have their way in committing crimes against the Nigerian state. “Needless to re-emphasise that transparency among Nigerians is the number one policy of President Buhari, and Kyari as the gatekeeper in the seat of power has been doing his utmost best to promote and ensure the policies of government succeed. From observation throughout the country, it has been discovered that the kyari style of loyalty to the president is the best Nigeria needs now”. The NAF chairman who personally visited the president’s chief of staff recently however thanked Nigerians, both Christians and the Muslims, for their consistent prayers for Kyari. He said well-wishers from Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Rome and other part of the globe had been offering special prayers for the quick recovery of kyari and other Nigerians infested by the deadly virus. “We thank all teeming well-wishers from Saudi Arabia, Rome, Senegal and other  countries that stood by the Chief of Staff and took the matter to Almighty God for the quick recovery of the CoS and other Nigerians affected”, he stated. 