The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 has disclosed that it has agreed to publish full details of funds remitted and disbursed from the nation’s relief account. Chairman of the PTF, Secretary to the government of the federation , Boss Mustapha disclosed this during the daily briefing of the task force . According to him, an agreed arrangement with the Accountant General of the Federation has been reached on the subject matter. He said that the committee is assessing the lockdown order and will advise the President accordingly. He also revealed that in the coming days, Nigeria will be receiving some items under the United Nation’s food basket. He noted that private hospitals that want to be engaged in the management and treatment of the disease are to be cleared by the relevant authorities before they can carry out such exercise. On his part, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyeama, has said that almost 200 Nigerians based in the US have indicated interest to return to the country as efforts are on to curb the COVID-19 pandemic. He said “We have started to get a greater number of Nigerians, especially in the United States, where almost 200 have now indicated their willingness to return,” He noted that the protocols for evacuating Nigerians in the Diaspora have been completed and the country is in a much “stronger and better position” to bring back Nigerians interested in returning to the country. “We are engaging with our embassy in China and our High Commissioners in London and also in France to work out all the logistics but things are now beginning to fall in place and we are getting the sense of what needs to be done,” he added . During his briefing, minister of information,Lai Mohammed, dismissed insinuations that the members of the task force are being paid allowance . While stating that no member of the committee has ever been paid any allowance, he added that rumour peddlers were distracting the fight against COVID-19 with fake news. “He said “The truth of the matter is that no member of the committee has ever received a penny whether for sitting or sleeping allowance,” “This fake news is aimed at distracting the government from the most serious problem of containing and combatting fake news. “I want to say loud and clear that no member of the committee receives a penny as sitting allowance. Every body sacrifices his time, energy and even sometimes resources.” Lending his voice , the SGF also backed the information minister’s assertions. He said “I saw the post where somebody was alleging that the federal government has withdrawn $150m out of which they are paying the committee members of the task force N500,000 daily as sitting allowance. “Let me say that as the chairman of this committee, we have not received a dime by way of even operational cost talk less of sitting allowances. “And like I said, sitting allowances are matters of regulations and they are there in the public service rules and regulations. It would be applied when the need arises and when funds are available.”