The National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) has released funds for the payment of capitation and fee-for-service for its enrollees for the second quarter (April to June) of 2020. This, the scheme said, would guarantee uninterrupted access to healthcare services by its enrollees in these challenging times. In a statement signed by head, Media and Public Relations of NHIS, Ayo Osinlu, he said that the action was to ensure that no enrollee will be turned back from any facility for non-payment of appropriate fees by any Health Maintenance Organisation (HMO). According to him, the Scheme took the step to ensure that the looming threat of COVID-19 is not compounded for the enrollees by inability to access healthcare services at the points of need. Osinlu further stated that the NHIS has issued guidelines to the HealthCare Facilities (HCFs) and the Health Maintenance Organisations (HMOs) on certain actions to be taken towards protecting the interests of the enrollees in the current situation. These guidelines, he said, contain concrete provisions to prevent service failure, and also ensure that enrollees enjoy prompt and effective healthcare services inspite of general restrictions and outright lockdown in certain parts of the country. “The guidelines gave clear order to healthcare providers to ensure the safety and protection of their personnel against COVID-19 infection, provide timely and appropriate level of care for all NHIS enrollees as may be required, and ensure that no NHIS enrollee is denied access to care. “It also directed the providers to note that all NHIS and HMO Call Centres are open 24hours daily. They are also to ensure the issuance of authorisation codes and resolution of all other issues, ensure prompt report of all cases of denial of authorisation codes by HMOs, as well as maintain high index of suspicion and promptly report suspected cases to NCDC or State Ministries of Health. “On the other hand, the guidelines for the HMOs instructed them to also ensure the safety and protection of their personnel against COVID-19 infection, ensure prompt payment of capitation and fee-for-service to all healthcare facilities, while also ensuring the provision of timely and appropriate level of care for all NHIS enrollees by the healthcare facilities’’. “The HMOs are, by the guidelines, required to ensure that no NHIS enrollee is denied access to care, while their call centres are to be open 24hours daily, for prompt issuance of authorisation codes and to resolve all other issues that may arise. “They are equally directed to log all cases of issued or denied requests for authorisation code by healthcare facilities,” he explained. He, however, stated that the scheme may revise the guidelines in the light of new developments, as it will continue to closely monitor the situation.