The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has commenced consideration of Nigeria’s request for the release of its contribution with the Fund to enable the country confront the fiscal risks facing arising from outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. IMF managing director, Ms Kristalina Georgieva, hinted in a statement yesterday that the Fund was working relentlessly to attend to Nigeria’s request so that a proposal can be considered by the IMF’s executive board as soon as possible. The IMF Boss however did not reveal whether the Fund would release the total amount to Nigeria when the request is eventually considered for approval. Nigeria has a contribution of $3.4bn with the IMF and it is entitled to draw up to the whole of the said amount. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, had disclosed on Monday that the federal government has applied for full withdrawal of its $3.4 billion contribution with the IMF to help fight the spread of the pandemic and provide palliatives to the affected households and institutions. “We have in the first instance applied for that maximum amount, then in the process when we negotiate we might get the maximum amount or less but that is the amount of our contribution with the IMF. This will not be tied to any conditionality. However, it is important to clarify that Nigeria does not intend to negotiate or enter into a formal programme with the International Monetary Fund at this time, or in the foreseeable future,“ Ahmed noted. Acknowledging receipt of the request and confirming that the Fund was processing it, the IMF MD yesterday noted that Nigeria’s economy was endangered by the Coronavirus scourge and the drop in global crude prices. She said, “Nigeria’s economy is being threatened by the twin shocks of the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated sharp fall in international oil prices.  President Buhari’s administration is taking a number of measures aimed at containing the spread of the virus and its impact, including by swiftly releasing contingency funds to Nigeria’s Center for Disease Control and working on an economic stimulus package that will help provide relief for households and businesses impacted by the downturn. “To support these efforts, Nigeria’s government has requested financial assistance under the Fund’s Rapid Financing Instrument (RFI). This emergency financing would allow the government to address additional and urgent balance of payments needs and support policies that would make it possible to direct funds for priority health expenditures and protect the most vulnerable people and firms. We are working hard to respond to this request so that a proposal can be considered by the IMF’s Executive Board as soon as possible.”  NASS Alleges Exclusion Of Vulnerable Nigerians From Cash Transfer Meanwhile, the leadership of the National Assembly yesterday faulted the manner in which federal government’s ongoing intervention initiatives aimed at reducing the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic on the most vulnerable Nigerians was being implemented. Senate president, Ahmad Lawan and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila expressed their reservations about the social investment programme at a meeting with the minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq and some top officials of the ministry. Accordingly, they called for an enabling legislation to back the programme in line with global best practices. The meeting was attended by the deputy Senate president, Ovie Omo-Agege, deputy Speaker, Idris Wase and some other principal officers and members from both Chambers. Lawan and Gbajabiamila made insisted that the Social Investment Programme which was established in 2016 under the presidency but which is now under the ministry of Humanitarian Affairs needed a reform to make it more efficient and effective. In his opening remarks, Lawan said the National Assembly was very much interested in the current intervention initiatives of the ministry, particularly with respect to the disbursement aimed at assuaging the plight of the poorest of the poor Nigerians against COVID-19. “We feel that we need to work together with you to ensure that there is effectiveness, there is efficiency, that those who are supposed to benefit, benefit directly,” Lawan said. A statement issued by his special adviser on media, Ola Awoniyi, quoted the Senate president as saying the National Assembly was concerned about the conditions and guidelines for the intervention programmes which he said are specifically directed at the most vulnerable Nigerians. He said, “When for example, some conditions are set, that those who will benefit will have to go online, through the internet or BVN and the rest of it. I want to tell you that the majority of those who are supposed to benefit have no access to power. They have no access to Internet. They have no bank account, so no BVN. In fact, many of them don‘t even have phones and these are the poorest of the poor. Yet, some of the conditions or guidelines which you set inadvertently leave them out.” Lawan noted that the poorest of the poor have not been sufficiently captured by the programme. He continued: “We believe that when we work together, the Executive side of government and the National Assembly as representatives of the people, we will be able to reach much more of these people who are in serious distress even before the Coronavirus. “Now with Coronavirus, they need our attention more than ever before. The time has come that we review the ways and manner we use to deliver the services under the SIP to Nigerians. “We need to be better in terms of strategy for delivery and definitely, what we have been doing in the past cannot deliver exactly what will solve the challenges of the most ordinary and most vulnerable Nigerians. “So we need to put on our thinking cap and work out some strategies on how to identify the poorest persons in Nigeria. I think we have not been able to reach far out there to get them properly captured.” Speaking in the same vein, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Gbajabiamila, told the minister that she is right now in the eye of the storm because all eyes are on her. He said, “Your job right now, is probably the most important as we speak, because you are saddled with the responsibility of alleviating ‚poverty‘ or the hardship, due to no fault of anyone, being thrust upon Nigerians, and I know that you came into a system, or you met a system that has nothing to do with you, but what we will be asking you to do is for you to change that system. “When you walk into a system, no system is 100 perfect. The word reform is something we use all the time, and this is the one time when that word reform must be used in the truest sense of that word. “The questions are going to be asked, how do you come about your list, how comprehensive is your distribution list? What are the parameters? What is the geographical spread? So these are tough questions that are going to be asked but I want you to look at them as frank questions that we need to ask. “If you really want to define the meaning of representation, if that was being practiced in the real meaning of representation, then we shouldn’t be here. Because all the questions we want to ask, we should already have the answers. We should be providing those answers to the Nigerian people we represent. “But if they ask me, as the speaker of the House, or ask the Senate President or any of my colleagues here, we are going to be struggling for answers. If we were really representing, then we will not need to ask because we will have the answers.” The Speaker said the relevant committees in the House have been complaining bitterly, even before the minister took over the scheme, about the inability to access information about the scheme. Gbajabiamila said Nigeria‘s SIP was similar to the Unemployment Insurance Act in the UK and the Social Security Act in the US. “There is a lot of take away from this COVID-19. One of them is the International Best Practices. My point is that these things are backed by law. They are codified by the legislature so that these issues and these questions will not arise,” he said. The Speaker urged the minister to talk with the relevant committees and the National Assembly leadership on the best way to codify the scheme. In her response, the minister said the SIP was moved to her ministry for „sustainability and institutionalisation.” “I am very pleased to hear that we are going to work together to see that we give a legal backing to this programme because that is the only way to go,” the minister said.