FBN Holdings Plc, reiterated its promise to place shareholder value at the forefront of its operations. The Company noted that as a Group, it is positioned and driven to not just remain relevant in the future but also involved in the development of the Nigerian economy and its host countries across Africa. The chairman of Board of Directors of FBN Holdings Plc, Dr. Oba Otudeko, stated this in his address to shareholders at the eighth Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos. Otudeko said that “In 2019, FBN Holdings deepened its efforts to realise revenue and as a result, a 42 per cent increase in synergy revenue was recorded during the financial year, highlighting the Group’s enhanced ability to address customers’ needs through our thriving subsidiaries. “It is important to highlight that the Board of Directors and Management of FBN Holdings will ensure that all our operating entities have sufficient resources to grow their businesses, deepen market penetration and enhance overall shareholder value.” The Chairman noted that the year 2020 marks the beginning of another three-year strategic planning cycle for the Group and we have extensively engaged internally and mapped our course of action over the next three years. In his address, Group managing director/CEO, FBN Holdings, Mr UK Eke said central to its strategy is the three-pronged focus of the Group aimed at restoring shareholders value over the last three years, which enhanced the revenue profile of the Group in the context of diversification across multiple streams, markets and sectors. According to him, the 2019 financial results have been a good reflection of our strategy and the directional ratios are consistent with the future we seek to create for the institution. Speaking further on the performance, the GMD said “the Group’s profit before tax of N83.6 billion, a 30.9 per cent growth over prior year at N63.9 billion, other key metrics such as return on equity, loans and advances, deposits, shareholders’ equity improved during the year at varying rates. Return on equity improved by 270 basis points closing the year at 12.4 per cent from 9.7 per cent. Total assets grew by 11.4 per cent from N5.6 trillion to N6.2 trillion over the last one year. Total deposit and shareholders’ equity grew 15.3 per cent and 25 per cent, closing the year at N4.0 trillion and N661.1 billion respectively.” He assured shareholders that the strategy to reposition the Group is gathering momentum and the key pain points, including the challenging delinquent loan portfolio, have been effectively addressed except for the need to intensify efforts at reducing our cost to serve. “Now that we are on course for a normalised NPL territory in 2020 and with our leadership position in electronic channels, the Group is positioned to take advantage of the evolving opportunities in the market for the benefit of our esteemed shareholders,” Eke stated. Meanwhile, shareholders of the company have commended the board and management for steering the ship of the company to higher profitability. The shareholders, who spoke at the AGM, expressed their satisfaction with the financial statement and approved the 38 kobo dividend per share that was proposed by the Board of Directors of the company.