No fewer than 77 state hospitals have registered for the ongoing Stallion’s Group food aid and transportation facilitation across the country, which is geared towards addressing the negative effects of COVID-19 scourge. Already, Stallion Group had delivered free rice and fish to the COVID – 19 Hospitals in Lagos State with the Stallion Group Team. Working in the frontline and against all odds, Stallion’s team recently risked their lives to ensure that these aids reach where they are required the most. The group, apart from pledging free rice and fish for three months to all COVID – 19 Hospitals, has deployed staff buses to ferry health care workers to hospitals dedicated to COVID – 19 treatment in Lagos. There is also an arrangement for frontline health workers who are provided with a dedicated pick up and drop services during the federal government’s directives on enhanced community quarantine. The buses, LEADERSHIP learnt, will be attached to the COVID-19 dedicated hospitals for the next 3 months to ensure safer and comfortable transportation of the healthcare providers who are in the frontline in this fight against the virus.
The free staff bus service, along with a dedicated driver and fuelling is implemented in cooperation and close coordination with the Lagos State Government. Commenting, Mr. Sunil Vaswani, Chairman of Stallion group stated that “These are exceptionally difficult times and urgent emergency resources have to be deployed to cope with the needs of affected states and support their health care systems. At Stallion group, our top priority is the health and safety of our employees, customers and our community”. “As the country grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic, kindness seems to be the only bright spot that many corporates have pledged in these dark times. We salute the heart-warming stories of altruism that are surfacing across the country every day, feeding us with hope and strength”, Vaswani added. Stallion Group is a conglomerate founded in 1969 with headquarters in Dubai. The group is one of the largest in Sub-Saharan Africa with an extensive international presence in 18 countries (As of 2010) with 72 locations and more than 10,000 employees. Stallion is engaged in commodities, agriculture, automobile assembly, automobile distributorship, food products, industries, FMCG, mining, steel manufacturing, real estate, financial services, technology, logistics and shipping. The group also manages a sole/exclusive portfolio of global auto brands including Honda, Hyundai, Nissan, Porsche, Volkswagen, Audi, Skoda, Foton, Jinbei, BAIC, Changan, Ashok Leyland and IVECO. Operating multiple assembly facilities, the group is involved in the assembly of Nissan, Hyundai, Ashok Leyland, Iveco and Volkswagen branded vehicles. In 2014 the Stallion rolled out the first Nigeria made Nissan vehicle, a Nissan Patrol. Later, Stallion released the first made-in-Nigeria Hyundai passenger car. Stallion has also announced the assembly of Volkswagen branded cars.