Respite may have come the way of the world as a major study in the United States has found that an experimental drug, remdesivir works against coronavirus. US government officials hinted yesterday that they would work to make the drug, visually inspected at a Gilead manufacturing site in that country, available to appropriate patients as quickly as possible. Given through an IV, the medication is said to be designed to interfere with an enzyme that reproduces viral genetic material. According to Associated Press (AP), in a study of 1,063 patients sick enough to be hospitalized, Gilead Sciences’ remdesivir shortened the time of recovery by 31% —-11 days on average versus 15 days for those just given usual care. The news agency reports that the drug also might be reducing deaths, though it is not certain from results of the study so far. “What it has proven is that a drug can block this virus,” the National Institutes of Health’s Dr. Anthony Fauci said. “This will be the standard of care,” and any other potential treatments will now have to be tested against or in combination with remdesivir, he added. No drugs are currently approved for treating the coronavirus, which has killed more than 226,000 people worldwide since it emerged late last year in China. An effective treatment could have a profound effect on pandemic’s impact, especially because a vaccine is likely to be a year or more away. The drug had “a clear-cut significant positive effect,” shortening the time to hospital discharge by four days, Fauci said. By comparison, antiviral drugs for the flu shorten illness by about one day on average and only when started within a day or two of symptoms first appearing. Remdesivir is among dozens of treatments being tested against the coronavirus but was the farthest along in study. It is given through an IV and blocks an enzyme the virus uses to copy its genetic material. “We are excited and optimistic” about the new results, said Vanderbilt University’s Dr. Mark Denison whose lab first tested remdesivir against other coronaviruses in 2013 and did much research on it, but was not involved in the NIH study. “It’s active against every coronavirus that we’ve ever tested. It was very hard for the virus to develop resistance to remdesivir. That means the drug would likely be effective over longer term use,” Denison said.  Easing Of Lockdown In Nigeria To Last 6 Weeks Meanwhile, the gradual easing of the lockdown in Abuja, the nation’s capital, as well as Lagos and Ogun States as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari will take six weeks broken into three tranches of two weeks each. The phased strategy, according to the federal government, is mapped out in a way that would reduce the negative impact of the lockdown on social and economic life in the country. The secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, gave the hint yesterday during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 in Abuja. Buhari had on Monday ordered a gradual easing of lockdown restrictions to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the FCT, Lagos and Ogun States from May 4. In a nationwide broadcast, the president noted that he took the decision after reviewing the over four-week lockdown with a view to reactivating the country‘s economy and still keep a steady response in containing the virus. Explaining how the federal government intended to ease the lockdown, SGF Mustapha who is also the chairman of presidential task force on COVID-19 noted that the phased strategy was designed to reduce the pains of socio-economic disruptions, while strengthening the public health response. He said, “In line with Mr. President’s directive in paragraphs 38-41 of his broadcast, the PTF has developed sector specific guidelines. The gradual reopening of the economy will span a total of 6 weeks broken into 3 tranches of 2 weeks each. “This phased strategy is designed to reduce the pains of socio-economic disruptions while strengthening our public health response, which would ultimately reduce the recovery of our economy and provide succour to the poor and vulnerable. “To underscore the collaborative efforts with sub-national levels of government, they are encouraged to provide leadership in engaging relevant associations responsible for various sectors, e.g. market associations and transport unions for orderly and effective implementation”. The SGF also emphasised the need for security agencies to strictly enforce the new measures that have been put in place. He said that following the pronouncement of the president, it had become necessary to provide initial clarifications for Nigerians on some of the new measures such as the overnight curfew, inter-state travels and related matters. Reeling out the new measures put in place to ease the lockdown, Mustapha said, “For the avoidance of doubt, the following clarifications, are provided: The overnight curfew is applicable nationwide from 8.00pm to 06.00am daily, effective Monday, 4th of May, 2020. “Inter-State travels are banned except for the movement of goods, agro-products, petroleum products, essential services, etc such as directed by Mr President. “Mass gathering of more than 20 people outside of a workplace is strictly prohibited; controlled access to neighborhood markets and locations of economic activities will be enforced, mandatory temperature checks will be conducted in public places. “Social distancing of 2 metres to be maintained between people in workplaces and other public places; all passenger flights remain under ban, and mandatory supervised isolation of persons arriving from outside the country for at least 14 days”. Mustapha added that state governments, in collaboration with security agencies and relevant trade associations, are strongly advised to ensure that these measures are strictly enforced. He pointed out that the management of various offices, premises and businesses that would be gradually re-opened are mandated to ensure certain preparatory steps. He listed the steps to include: “Fumigation and decontamination, arrangement made for physical distancing; provision of hand sanitizers and hand washing facilities; application of the policy on mandatory use of face masks and provision of thermometers for temperature checks. “Consideration must be given to persons living with disabilities while making all these arrangements; increased communication with staff on COVID-19 and measures put in place and any other measure that may be peculiar for the organisations and/or sector”. The SGF further reiterated that the easing of restrictions and introduction of revised measures do not amount to the end of the battle against COVID-19. According to him, it signifies the need for more vigilance and stringent compliance so that Nigeria does not lulled into complacence that is capable of diminishing the progress made so far in the country. On the situation in Kano State, Mustapha said the technical team of public health experts sent by the PTF had begun the evaluation of the situation in the state, working in collaboration with the state’s team. He stated: “I am pleased to also inform you that the operationalization of the laboratories in Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital and Bayero University Kano, will considerably improve our response to the pandemic in Kano State. “Additionally, fifty trucks of assorted grains have been sent to Kano and due for delivery within the next 48 hours. The PTF appreciates the cooperation of the Governor and the medical team in Kano State”. On research for a vaccine in Nigeria, he said, “I need to, at this point, mention the role of Research in this exercise. We must encourage our local scientists and deepen our capacity for research. “There is a huge role for all relevant Research Institutes to play at this time. The Federal Ministry of Health is coordinating the process in conjunction with the National Institute for Medical Research and the Nigerian Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development. “We have received information on domestic and international claims about emerging inventions on COVID-19. These are most welcome but scientific validation process and protocols will have to be followed. We are open to all options for the good of humanity”.  Banks To Open From 8am To 2pm The federal government also announced yesterday that banks will commence commercial operations in Abuja, Lagos and Ogun States fromMonday, May 4. National coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr Sani Aliyu, disclosed this at the daily briefing on coronavirus. Aliyu noted that banks would be allowed to open between 8am and 2pm in the three places. He said, “In terms of the banks, this continues to be a recurring issue for all of us. We have been in touch with the CBN governor. Moving on from Monday, banks will open and they will operate normal services from 8am to 2pm. “That is six hours but there will be the usual restrictions. For instance, self-distancing and the use of temperature monitors, hand hygiene, and making sure the capacities of banking halls are restricted so that people do not come together.” Speaking more on the guidelines for easing the lockdown in the country, Aliyu said government workers will be allowed to resume work, noting however that specifications on the levels and number of staff will be considered. On resumption of schools, he said the federal government was not ready to put children at risk by opening schools. He noted: “The president actually addressed the issue of the opening of the economy gradually. Until that is done we cannot foresee or immediately tell you when all the schools will be reopened. “It will not be proper for us to simply give you a date. It has to be in tandem with these opening terms. We don’t want to put our children at risk. None of these schools can function on its own without the society. “On the question of children promoting to the next class, those exams will happen when we are satisfied that the children have learnt what is enough for them to move. “For those who are in the exit classes of junior basic and senior secondary schools, we are preparing them and will continue to. This will go on until we are sure that they are equipped for the external examinations. “The West African Examinations Council has not cancelled their external exams. It was postponed indefinitely. This indefinite nature is so that we can get a definite date. Students will still have to go and take those exams when we are sure that we have taken good care of the pupils.”  FG Insists On Strict Adherence To Public Health Advisories The federal government also called on Nigerians to strictly adhere to public health advisories to curtail community transmission of COVID-19 in the country. Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who stated this at the daily briefing on COVID 19 in Abuja, said failure to comply could have undesirable effects. He said, „The increasing figure of confirmed cases underscores the ongoing community transmission, which is a major challenge and again necessitates a call on all citizens not to take this COVID-19 lightl, but to take ownership of the initiatives for non-pharmaceutical interventions with strict adherence to public health advisories.“ The minister said another pressing urgency was the need to provide and prepare Isolation centers and more bed spaces in all states of the federation, just as he appealed to each state authority and the FCT to give first line attention to the requirement in order to meet expectations and obligations. He continued: „As testing ramps up, the need will become more and more obvious. It should therefore be prioritised so that we are not taken by surprise. „I should take the opportunity to request distinguished Senators, Hon. Members of Houses of Representatives and Assemblies to also get involved in the disease surveillance and notification efforts in their constituencies and to actively support the drive to rapidly increase bed spaces for Isolation and treatment in their States”. On the claims by herbal medicine practitioners, the minister said it is a welcome development but urged that they work with the herbal medicine department in the ministry and the National Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Development (NIPRD).  FG Cautions Against Politicising Kano Deaths Meanwhile, the presidency yesterday told former and current political leaders that there was no time for energy wasted on political point-scoring on the issue of the rising cases of deaths in Kano State. In a statement by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, the presidency said the common purpose at this trying moment is to preserve the lives and health of citizens. “There is no time for energy wasted on political point-scoring, whether by current or former holders of office – or for any differences between state and federal administrations to be publicly aired. This is no time for talk. Our common purpose is to preserve the lives and health of citizens,” Shehu stated. He said Nigeria was only weeks into the fight against the invisible COVID-19 that, which was earlier in the year unknown to almost every nation in the world. He recalled that earlier this month, executive director of the WHO’s Health Emergencies Programme, Dr Mike Ryan, made it clear that Africa was at the beginning Stating that there was much that remained unknown about coronavirus, Shehu said, “What we do know is that global infections rates continue to rise each day – even when in some nations affected some time before Nigeria, the daily rate of infection is now slowing. “We know too that there is a global shortage of personal protective equipment, virus testing kits and other medical devices required to fight this pandemic. And we also know that in each and every country there are some cities and regions more severely affected than others. “In Nigeria, there are currently verbal autopsies underway in Kano State to identify the precise cause of the sudden and rapid increase in mortality in recent days. “While some may wish to believe that there are other causes at play here like hypertension, diabetes, meningitis, and acute malaria’, there are others who say it is COVID-19. We should be prepared to accept the medical and scientific result of the autopsies and work together to confront the common enemy. “What we know all over the world is that communities with similar socioeconomic dynamics like Kano have found as very helpful, the sort of lockdown measures now imposed, with markets and other public places of worship shuttered more strictly”. The presidential spokesman further noted that the Buhari administration was with the people of Kano State and would not let them down. He continued: “If there is reason to believe that the mortality rate in Kano due to COVID-19 is out of control, it will spell a serious development to which the best action would be for the Federal government and state government to work more tightly together to find solutions and implement together. “There is no time for energy wasted on political point-scoring, whether by current or former holders of office – or for any differences between state and federal administrations to be publicly aired. This is no time for talk. Our common purpose is to preserve the lives and health of citizens”.  Medical Experts Offer To Assist Kano Govt Meanwhile, Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has said that about 11 professionals and health experts yesterday have volunteered to collaborate with the state government to win the war against the COVID-19 pandemic. Ganduje, who stated this while briefing journalists on the efforts being made to curb the spread of the deadly virus in the state, said the volunteered senior health experts would soon be inaugurated. He noted that they would synergize with the state ministry of Health and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to tackle the pandemic in the state. Governor Ganduje revealed that his administration had concluded plans to establish 10 additional isolation centres to ensure enough facilities and accommodation for COVID-19 patients. He stressed the need for the establishment of more Test Centres in the state considering its experience with community transmission. The Governor also thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for sending a special delegation from the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 to appraise the situation in Kano. Ganduje hinted his administration has also mapped out three-point agenda for fighting the dreaded COVID-19 pandemic namely preventive, curative and palliative agenda, all of which he said Kano State was pursuing religiously.  Masari Extends Lockdown In Katsina Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State has ordered the lockdown of Kankia, Matazu and Musawa local government areas respectively, following the confirmation of nine more coronavirus cases in the areas. A press statement signed by the secretary to the state government (SGS), Mustapha Inuwa Muhammad, noted that the governor ordered a total lockdown of the three councils starting from 7am tomorrow. He added that the governor equally called on the people in the areas concerned to be law abiding citizens as security agents would be deployed to ensure compliance.  Lagos Discharges 49 Patients The Lagos State government has announced the recovery and discharge of 49 COVID-19 patients, the highest single figure of recovery in the state and Nigeria. The state ministry of Health, through its verified Twitter handle yesterday, said the patients were 28 females and 21 males, including a foreign national who is a Greek citizen. It said that they were discharged from the Yaba and Onikan ssolation facilities to reunite with the society. The ministry tweeted: “The patients, 18 from IDH, Yaba and 31 from Onikan Isolation Centre have fully recovered and tested negative to #COVID19 in two consecutive readings. With this, number of patients successfully managed and discharged in Lagos is now 187”. Data from the Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) shows that as at 6:00p.m. East Africa Time, there were 35,371 confirmed COVID-19 cases, 1.534 deaths, and 11,727 recoveries from 52 African countries.  COVID-19 No Respecter Of Persons – el-Rufai Meanwhile, Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir el-Rufa’i, has recounted his battle and subsequent defeat of the dreaded Coronavirus, saying he did not know how he contracted the virus. Speaking in a Hausa Radio programme yesterday in Kaduna, el-Rufai noted that he went through trauma, as he battled with debilitating headache, even as he addressed the state from isolation, adding that he could have died, if not for his doctors. He said, “I could have died if not for my doctors. I followed their instructions strictly and took my medications. My wives collaborated with Dr Hadiza, the deputy governor, and seized my phones while in isolation. I was only left with an iPad, the device I used to read and go online. “I survived it; someone else may not. That is why we are very serious about the disease. I went through trauma. Even when I spoke online from isolation, I was battling with a debilitating headache. I won’t like even my enemy to suffer from Coronavirus. „I can’t exactly say how I contracted the Coronavirus. But I was in Abuja and had interacted with many people, some from overseas. I was assigned to chair committees by the government. I believe it was from these interactions that I got the virus,” he said. “Despite the security around me, I got the virus. This goes to show that the virus does not recognise any personality. Coronavirus is not a friend to anybody, and could strike where it is least expected”. On why he returned to his clean shave looks, El-Rufai said, “I’m truly aging. I am few steps above 60 and this disease is not kind to the old. I am old. That is the danger. If one is above 50, one should be very careful not to contract the virus. To an aged person with other health complications like diabetes, hypertension, Coronavirus will be very deadly. “When I came out from isolation, I intended to leave my beard because it was the tradition of the Holy Prophet Muhammad- may the peace and blessings of Allah be with him. But as I visited my mother to greet her, she was against my new look. She asked me to shave. According to her, my father was not bearded during his lifetime. I had no option but to shave my beard because I want to live peacefully with my mother”.  WHO Urges United Global Action Against Pandemic Head of the World Health Organisation (WHO), Chief Tedros Ghebreyesus, yesterday said the world stood a chance to fight the coronavirus disease and the havoc it wrecks, if it stands as one. “The choice should be humanity against this virus,” Ghebreyesus said. On January 30, Ghebreyesus had sounded the top-level WHO alarm, following the advice of an emergency committee. “We sounded the alarm early and we sounded it often. Only 82 COVID-19 cases and no deaths had been reported outside China at that time,” he said. The United States suspended its funding for the WHO in April, as President Donald Trump accused the agency of covering up and playing down the outbreak that started in China in December. Ghebreyesus said, “WHO became aware of unusual pneumonia cases in the city of Wuhan on Dec. 31, and requested information from China on New Year’s Day. “WHO started warning about possible transmission among humans on January 5. There is one thing we haven’t done. We haven’t given up and we won’t give up. “We said repeatedly that the world had a window of opportunity to prepare and to prevent widespread community transmission”. As the pandemic has spread across the globe, the total case number has surpassed 3.1 million, with around a third of the cases recorded in the U.S.  