President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians, especially Christian faithful in the country, to continue to exhibit hope, patience, resilience and adhere to safety regulations as his administration redoubles efforts to combat the spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. In his Easter message to Nigerians he personally signed, Buhari noted that this year’s celebration came amid the grip with which COVID-19 had held the entire world. President Buhari regretted that majority of Christians had found themselves marking Easter in a subdued manner, away from the usual congregation in churches, a development he described as unprecedented in living memory. He said, “This is unusual and very unfortunate. However, I wish to enjoin our Christian compatriots to rekindle their faith in Christ who overcame persecution, sufferings and displayed endurance, steadfastness and above all piety. “Jesus Christ represented man’s ability to withstand temporary pains in the hope of everlasting glory. I urge you to imbibe and live the values of humility, discipline, perseverance, sacrifice and obedience which Jesus Christ demonstrated during His stay on earth. “There is no better opportunity than now for all Christians in particular, and Nigerians in general, to remain faithful and hopeful that  with intensified prayers backed by personal and collective responsibility, the nation shall pull through this most difficult trial. “I have no doubt that if all stakeholders – individuals and groups – play their part to the fullest as advised by our scientists and medical experts in confronting Covid-19, the inherent resilience and determination of our people will enable us to pull through. “As I stated in my national broadcast on Sunday, March 29, 2020, since there is currently no known vaccine against the virus, “the best and most efficient way to avoid getting infected is through regular hygiene and sanitary practices as well as social distancing”. The president commended what he described as encouraging containment and ameliorating strategies put in place by members of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, adding that the personal and collective inconveniences suffered by Nigerians due to measures such as restriction of movements and closure of business premises were necessary sacrifices. “Being ‘a matter of life and death,’ these sacrifices are in everybody’s interest to save our country from calamity,” he said. Buhari continued: “The welfare of our people is paramount. Accordingly, the most economically vulnerable in our communities will continue to be uppermost in our plans, and efforts will be made to supply them with basic means of survival. On his part, the president of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, also said that the celebration of Easter was now more relevant than ever before. In a statement he personally signed, Lawan, while felicitating with Nigerians, particularly of the Christian faith, said the occasion was relevant today more than ever before as mankind passes through one of the darkest clouds in history. He said, “However, if we draw the right lessons from the death of Jesus on the cross at Calvary and his resurrection, we become more confident as we fight coronavirus and all other trials that today test our faith. “My belief is that this is a passing phase for Nigeria and the entire world and that our faith is a potent spiritual weapon for the pursuit of victory”. Also, the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday tasked Nigerians to team up, fight and conquer the global pandemic COVID-19 The party felicitated with Christian faithful on the celebration of Easter, which commemorates the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The party, in a message by its national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in Abuja to mark this year’s Easter celebration, maintained that with a united front the Coronavirus pandemic can be defeated. The party’s spokesman noted the entire mankind was in dire times, which required collective efforts at finding inspiration in the time-honoured selfless disposition of Jesus Christ as the world strive to eliminate the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. “A devastating public health crisis that has affected and disrupted every sector is upon us, every sector and individual must therefore be involved in the fight against the Coronavirus. So as we commemorate Easter with family and loved ones, we must understand that these are unusual times and our personal and collective responsibility required more than before to stay safe”, APC noted. Also, the national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Prince Uche Secondus yesterday urged Nigerians to use the period of Easter to pray fervently for a brand new Nigeria to emerge from the challenges of COVID-19. Secondus said that the situation in the World today and in particular our beloved country entails that we reinvigorate our supplications to God. The PDP chairman, in a statement signed by his spokesperson, Ike Abonyi, said that the fact that Christendom is forcefully celebrating Easter in their homes and not in their Churches against their wish and desire challenges all Christians to give new strength and energy to their prayers to God. Former vice president and presidential candidate of the PDP in the 2019 general election, Atiku Abubakar urged Christians and all Nigerians to endeavor to keep love alive and continue to lend a helping hand to the less fortunate despite present difficulties. In his Easter message released by his media office, the Waziri Adamawa reminded Christians that according to their faith, what was happening today all around the world with COVID-19 is reminiscent of the tribulations, trial and suffering of Jesus Christ as he set out to fulfill his mandate of saving mankind. Atiku said after all that Christ went through, he triumphed the machinations of his enemies, which is the reason for the Easter celebrations. The former Vice President said that Christians and mankind in general shall overcome the present predicament of lockdown, sit-ins and social distancing to celebrate the end of the pandemic and life would gradually return to normal again. The former Vice President commended well-meaning Nigerians who have from the abundance of their God-given resources made financial contributions to the Federal Government to enable the latter make reasonable provisions to assist the down- trodden in the society and reduce their level of despondency.