The director-general of the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, has said that about two million Nigerians will be tested for COVID-19 in the next three months. Ihekweazu, who stated this yesterday at the daily briefing on COVID19 in Abuja, said that this was in line with President Buhari‘s directive on aggressive contact tracing, testing and treatment. According to him, in picking the two million Nigerians, the NCDC projected at least 15,000 people in each state to be tested, stressing that the goal was to reduce transmission of the virus. Also, the minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, hinted that a high-powered 9-man delegation has been sent to Kano by the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) on a fact-finding mission and to offer support to the COVID-19 response. He said that the multidisciplinary technical experts would assess the needs and the design for on-site capacity building for state teams and advise on the state response and preparedness plan. Ehinare stated: „There is national concern about the sharp increase of COVID-19 positive cases in Kano concentrated in 7 municipal Council areas and also about certain so-called „unexplained“ deaths. The authorities have explained that the latter were not out of the ordinary. „The Governor of Kano State is well known for his interest in the good health of the people and will receive a high-powered 9-man delegation sent to Kano by the FMoH on a fact-finding mission and to offer support to the COVID-19 response in Kano”. He said ambulances were also to be deployed urgently to Kano to support the state in emergency patient transport services as it goes on lockdown. The minister further hinted that the ministry of Health had set up a ministerial expert advisory committee made up of eminent Nigerian virologists, public health experts, infectious disease and diagnostic experts and others to study the evolution and development of the COVID-19 outbreak and the responses in the country. According to him, the committee is to advise on the national strategy and action plan, using lessons learnt as well as those learnt from strategies in place across the globe. This, Ehanire, said will help the nation to identify and adopt the promising strategies and align government’s plans with best practices and advisories. He also said that the announcement of new measures for non-pharmacological intervention by the president would allow the Health ministry additional time for contact tracing and testing, while imploring citizens to wear face masks or face coverings at all times when leaving their homes. He further urged Nigerians to „practice physical distancing by strictly maintaining a distance of at least 2 metres (6 feet) between people, use non-contact greetings, such as waving, nodding, or placing a hand over your heart. „The elderly and anyone with pre-existing medical conditions like hypertension, TB, cancer, chronic respiratory disease, diabetes cardiovascular disease should not attend gatherings and should avoid receiving non-essential guests at this time and use masks or face coverings over your nose and mouth, if you must leave your home“, he added.