In view of the recent development in which materials with no proven evidence are being circulated linking Coronavirus or Covid-19 with 5G technology, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said it had become imperative to provide the following clarifications: Firstly, there is no correlation between 5G technology and Covid-19. 5G is an advancement on today’s 4G technology, designed to transform the world positively. Secondly, there is no deployment of 5G in Nigeria at the moment. The NCC back in November 2019 approved trial test for 5G for a period of three months, and the trial has been concluded and installation decommissioned. The trial among others was to study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might present. Relevant stakeholders including members of the security agencies were invited to participate during the trial. A statement by the commission’s director of public affairs, Dr. Henry Nkemadu, said the NCC will continue to maintain its policy of technology neutrality and will continue to encourage service providers to deploy the best technology that will meet the needs of the society in a secured and friendly manner. The following are some frequently asked questions and our answers:  Ans: 5G is a fifth generation of mobile technology which is an  improvement on today’s 4G technology with enhanced capabilities. The 5G technology provides the platform for new and emerging technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Big Data to improve the way we live and work. Ans: No. There is no 5G network in Nigeria at the moment. What we had was a trial test for 3 months which has since been concluded.  Ans. No exact timeframe but when conditions are right and all doubts are cleared.  Ans. Yes, particularly the millimetre wave spectrum from 24GHz and above are available.  Ans. No. It will be auctioned at the appropriate time.  Ans. Yes, in countries like South Korea, China, USA, Germany and others since the middle of 2019.   Ans. No, they all belong to the same class of non-ionizing radiation.  Ans. The National Frequency Management Council (NFMC) chaired by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy has the responsibility for allocating bulk spectrum for various services.  Ans. No, nothing to worry about. Safety and human health are top priority in the design and deployment of 5G.  Ans. 5G technology will transform the world by connecting everything with everybody. It will create millions of jobs, it will add billions of dollars to the economy (GDP) and can solve some of our problems such as insecurity and improve governance and efficiency in the society.  Ans. No, there is no link whatsoever between 5G and Coronavirus or Covid-19.  Ans. No, but rely on information from world standards-making bodies such as WHO, ITU, IEEE and industry experts for advice when in doubt.  Ans. Yes, there is radiation emission limits set by the International Commission for Non-ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) below which the radiation is considered safe for humans.  Ans. Yes, the NCC has been regularly conducting measurement of radiation emissions from base stations across the country and they are all well below the set limits.  Ans. No, fibre cable is a terrestrial technology for broadband that existed for decades while 5G is a new mobile technology for enhanced quality of service as explained in question 1 above.  Ans. Yes, there are other sources of radiation which include television stations, radio broadcast stations, wifi and so on. They all belong to the class of radiation considered to be safe for humans when operated below the set limits.  Ans. 5G is not owned by anybody but it’s a collection of technologies, standards and processes agreed at the international level by standards making bodies.  Ans. No, NCC has not issued any licence for 5G in Nigeria. NCC is technology neutral as such we don’t license technology but assigns spectrum to operators for deployment of any service when allocated by NFMC.  Ans. As a result of the lockdown, the amount of voice and data usage has increased by huge amounts and there is need to expand the network to provide optimum quality of service to users sitting at home. Telecom is also critical for information dissemination during the lockdown.