Governor of Cross River State, Ben Ayade on Tuesday kept vigil at the boundary between his state and Akwa Ibom State to enforce his administration’s order banning human and vehicular movements into the state. The governor, who arrived at the Calabar-Itu head bridge before mid-night on Tuesday, spent several hours with members of the State Covid-19 Task Force, departing at about 9am on Wednesday. As a consequence, there were long lines of vehicles on both sides of the boundary, as the taskforce prevented movement across the boundary. The governor told journalists that he was denying himself sleep so that the people of the state can sleep well. According to him, leading the enforcement by himself was to ensure that the boundary was totally locked down in line with his directive to ensure that the state remains COVID-19 free. He said the strict enforcement of the order was necessitated by the reality that all of the neighbouring states have recorded incidences of coronavirus infections. “We will know no sleep so that our people can sleep. It is for the sake of their own security and safety that we are all out here,” he said. At about 8am the following morning, the governor personally screened trapped vehicles, allowing only those on essential services, including newspaper distributors to make it through the boundary, after being tested by medical personnel. Those considered to be on non-essential services, were turned back. The governor announced that he will be embarking on a similar exercise at the border between Cameroon and Nigeria in the state. He said he needed to feel the pulse of the team enforcing the lockdown by taking part in the exercise himself. “Our ambition is to have zero-occurrence of coronavirus in the state. While other states are locking down, we are locking out. We are locking out because inside our state, we are safe and free,” he added. On his part, the commissioner of police, Anozia Uche, who accompanied the governor, commended him for the preventive measures being adopted to keep the state free from the virus. “The governor and the rest of us have come here at this particular time to ensure that the measures put in place are actually obeyed and enforced. He said he was impressed with what he had seen.