Majority Leader of the House of Representatives Honourable Ado Alhassan Doguwa has stated the reason why members representing Kano at the lower Chambers wrote a formal letter to President Muhammadu Buhari over the mystery surrounding the death of prominent sons and daughters of the state and spread of COVID-19 pandemic across the state. Doguwa maintained that the Federal Lawmakers from Kano State have sent a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari intimating him on the happenings in Kano and the need for his government to act proactively over the mysterious death and spread of Corona virus Pandemic  in the state. Speaking at the Africa House, Government House when he led 22 members of the House from Kano state on the instructions of the Speaker of the House of Representatives Honourable Femi Gbajamiamila to come and solidarised as well as condoled the governor and good people of the state over the demise of prominent sons and daughters of the state through mysterious deaths. Doguwa said they have written to President Muhammad Buhari, seeking his prompt intervention to support the state in fighting the Coronavirus pandemic. He said the decision was necessary inview of the fact that the state need serious support, not only from the Federal Government, but also from all the other stakeholders to fight the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are also in Kano to find a way to collaborate with the state government and also the people of the state to find a lasting solution for the pandemic in the state,” he said. The Leader of house posited that their visit was also to sympathise with Kano people over the issue of COVID-19 pandemic, calling on the public spirited individuals to also support the government in its drive to fight the disease to a stand still. The leader said that the house of representative had a Special Session on Tuesday where the house proceedings was, dominated by the issue of  Kano and how to get out of the  COVID-19 pandemic “We came to Kano to represent the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajamiamila to commend the governor for his tireless efforts in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. In his response, Kano state governor Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje expressed his appreciation to the MPs  for their concern over what is happening in the state and the show of solidarity. ” You have indeed proved to us that you are representing the state with all your heart and you have shown commitment in fighting for the state and only Allah will reward you abundantly.” Ganduje averred.