The Anglican Bishop of the Diocese of Calabar, Bishop Tunde Adeleye, yesterday decried the federal government’s “stay at home order” which prevents more than five people from meeting in churches and mosques at a particular time to pray. Adeleye, therefore, called on the federal and state governments to allow churches hold at least one hour service next Sunday to mark the Easter celebrations, which marks the resurrection of Jesus Christ. He made the appeal in an interactive session with journalists on the feelings of the church regarding the federal government’s “stay at home order” ahead of the Easter service usually organised by  Christians during this period. The cleric who expressed worry over the stay at home order which forbids the church from conducting a church service said it’s strange for a church not to hold a service on a day like Easter. In his words, the cleric said, “It’s unfortunate that this thing is happening at this time of the year. Government should allow us hold a common service for at least an hour. “We will not hold tbe service the way we used to hold it before. There will be no procession but only celebrate the content. “We still desire to meet. Yes as they said we can pray in our houses individually, however the Holy Bible tells us to always pray together.” Adeleye, who doubles as the Arch Bishop of Niger Delta Province stressed that what government should have done during the lockdown period that has coincided with the Easter period is to allow the church  meet with at least not more than 50 of its members for at least an hour to enable them pray fervently over the resurrection of Jesus Christ since Easter is like a ritual to Christians. The cleric urged the federal government to direct the security agents not to arrest Nigerians under the guise of trying to make people comply with stay at home directives, but rather intensify sensitisation of people on the danger of coronavirus spread. “Government should do more on sensitisation rather than arrest. Arrest will not do any better. “Besides, they could still be better monitoring, enforcing, and educating the people. That is why we are saying that prayers are necessary. For it is strange to Africans not to pray to their God,” he said.      