President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday announced the extension of lockdown across major states of the federation and the FCT, saying the restriction and other containment measures put in place to curtail the spread of coronavirus will last as long as medical experts suggest that they are necessary. The president however implored Nigerians to obey the directive on restriction of movement “once more” in order to overcome the global pandemic. Accordingly, he assured Nigerians of more interventions for vulnerable citizens in the country, just as he thanked them for their patience, resolve and strong determination to battle the COVID-19 scourge. President Buhari had on March 29, 2020 ordered a total lockdown in Abuja as well as Lagos and Ogun States for an initial period of 14 days in a bid to stop the spread of the virus in the country. Due to the rise in the spread of the virus the increase of the number of confirmed cases in the country, there had been speculations about possible extension of the lockdown. As of yesterday, confirmed coronavirus cases in Nigeria rose to 318 after 13 new cases were confirmed. The virus has now spread to 19 states, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Currently, Lagos, Abuja and Osun have the highest number of cases at 163, 56 and 20 respectively. The likelihood of extending the lockdown became obvious on Friday, following a meeting between President Buhari and members of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 led by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha. Mustapha told journalists during a media briefing on Friday that the decision to extend the lockdown or not was exclusively the responsibility of the president. “The decision on whether to extend the lockdown or not is exclusively the decision or responsibility of the President. Ours (the PTF) is to provide him with first-hand information that would inform that decision. So, I cannot speculate on that now. But looking at what is happening in other climes, you would be able to deduce what might likely happen, but I’m not in a position to speculate on that”, he said. Announcing the extension of the lockdown yesterday, the president in a statement by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said, “We realize that today, there will be sons and daughters unable to visit their parents, and elders that are isolated from young ones. And there will be those who live day-to-day, eating as they earn, who face real and present suffering. “No elected government could ask more of the citizens of the country that elected them than today we ask of you. But we must ask you – once more – to observe restrictions on movement where they are in place, and follow the instructions of our scientists and medical advisers: stay home, wash your hands, save lives. “The freedoms we ask you to willingly forsake today will only last as long as our scientific advisers declare they are necessary. But they are essential – world over – to halt and defeat the spread of this virus. “For those who suffer most egregiously, the Government has announced multiple measures to assist: 70,000 tonnes of grain is being released from the National Strategic Grain Reserves for distribution to those in most need; distribution of small cash payments are also being made, and will continue to be made by the federal government in the states and local government areas. “We ask you to listen and follow public announcements via the mass media for instructions as to how to receive this government support – and learn of more public assistance in the coming days. “All that the Government is asking you to endure is because nowhere in the world today is there any known way of defeating this pandemic. There is no vaccine. And that means there are choices to be made: between continuing as usual, or accepting the restrictions even when they come with unintended consequences. “But at this darkest hour, it remains our duty to offer you the full and unvarnished truth: This is a global pandemic. 210 countries and territories across the globe are affected. We cannot expect others to come to our assistance. No one is coming to defeat this virus for us. “Instead, the defeat of the virus in our country will be in our hands, alone. We cannot wait for others. We can only depend on ourselves now.  And so we must – and we will – end this outbreak ourselves as Nigerians, together”.  States Bow To FG’s Counsel On Restriction Order, Declare Total Lockdown Meanwhile, many states of the federation yesterday took the advice of the federal government against relaxing restriction of movement in their respective domains. The federal government had on Friday appealed to the state governments to be mindful of the present situation of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. National coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr Sani Aliyu, decried the action of some state governments to relax the restrictions order and other containment measures put in place to curtail the spread of coronavirus. Taking heed of the counsel from the government at the centre, most state governments declared total lockdown to further curtail the spread of coronavirus. In Plateau, mixed reactions trailed the one week lockdown order by given by Governor Simon Lalong to enable the state government carry out fumigation exercise in the entire state. The directive by the governor set tongues wagging, with some of the citizens in the state saying the timing for the exercise was very wrong considering the fact that it was coming at a time Christians were celebrating the death and resurrection of Christ. Governor Lalong during the flag off of the fumigation fexercise urged Christians to use this Solemn Easter Friday to cry to God within their homes to show mercy and remove the COVID-19 pandemic. In Oyo State, the curfew which commences from 7pm in the evening and terminates at 6am in the morning continued. There may not be any church service today to mark the Easter celebrations as the state government’s directive against assembly of more than ten people and human distance was still in force. In Ondo, following the second index case of Coronavirus recorded in the state, the state government yesterday cancelled the special concession granted churches across the state to celebrate the Easter. The state government, in a statement issued by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, noted that the decision was taken after due consultations with the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN). Ojogo said the second index case of Coronavirus recorded in the state has once again reinforced the need to deepen everybody’s collective efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, the state COVID-19 response team had reported that the second index case having travelled from Lagos to the state must give the government greater concern to avoid community transmission. In Katsina state, Christians have been asked to celebrate Easter in a low key with few persons attending church service after the two weeks banned on worship centres was lifted by Governor Aminu Bello Masari. In Cross River State, people were asked to go about their normal businesses with restriction at strategic points by security agents authorized by the state government to make sure that residents of the state comply with the ‘no mask, no movement order’. Following the discovery of first confirmed case of Covid 19 in Niger, the state governor Alhaji  Abubakar Sani Bello, has ordered total lock down of the state effective from Monday. Similarly, the entire Limawa  community  in Minna, the state capital, where the case was discovered has been isolated from other communities and will  be locked down to avoid spread of the virus in the state capital, even as the government provides all the needs of the community throughout the period it will last. Reacting to the first confirmed case, the governor stated yesterday at a press briefing after expanded executive council meeting on the first COVID-19 case in the state that the total lockdown will be enforced stringently. Bello therefore sought the support of the people. As Christians the world over celebrate Easter, the coronavirus pandemic has altered activities, especially in states where total lockdown is presently being enforced. Bauchi State for instance, has closed its borders with neighbouring states. The state is now encouraging social distancing through several sensitisation campaigns. The state governor, Bala Mohammed, said it was best for Christians to maintain social distancing during Easter celebration. In Rivers State, Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, had also in a state-wide broadcast on Thursday evening, announced that religious groups would not be allowed to congregate for the Good Friday and Easter Sunday services as the state battles to contain the virus. Following that broadcast, several individuals and religious groups, including the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) and the Catholic Church, have also urged residents of the state to abide by the governor’s directive. In Delta State, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, said Christians should use the per­iod of Easter to pray for Nigeria as the world battles the coronavirus pandemic. His address was contained in a statement issued by his chief press secret­ary, Mr Olisa Ifeaji­ka, in Asaba yesterday. But in Nasarawa, the state government has enforced lockdown of the state. This, it said, was to curtail the spread of the virus. The government said all social gatherings of persons above 50, including weddings and naming ceremonies have been suspended. Findings revealed that entry into the state is restricted to between 6:00am to 8:00pm, and all persons coming into the state are to be screened at various check-points’ mobile clinics. Worship centres such as mosques and churches have also been closed until further notice. Also in Bayelsa State, the governor, Douye Diri, enjoined Christians to remain steadfast and keep their hope in Jesus Christ alive in the face of the daunting COVID-19 challenges at this time. Governor Diri described the pandemic as only a temporary setback that the nation would soon overcome. The outbreak of COVID-19 has been stressful for residents of Akwa Ibom State as fear and anxiety about the pandemic have been overwhelming. In Uyo, the state capital, for instance, most people are forced to stay at home to help curtail spread of the coronavirus. Also in Imo State, Governor Hope Uzodinma, described his ban on churches as a sacrifice every Christian in the state must endure to stop the spread of COVID-19. The governor made the disclosure during a state-wide broadcast on yesterday. According to him, it was important to ban all forms of gathering in the state as a way of avoiding the spread of the virus which is yet to manifest in the state.