The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) said it would commence the distribution of palliatives to the less privileged, as part of measures to cushion the effect of the sit-at-home presidential order. Minister of state for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, who disclosed this during an inspection of storage facilities at the Kubwa NYSC Orientation Camp, maintained that the palliatives are targeted at the vulnerable residents and the physically challenged in rural communities. Aliyu, also revealed that security measures have been put in place to safeguard the palliative materials, stressing that security personnel would be increased in addition to the establishment of police posts in the vicinity. “Honestly, if not for the producers that are coming from far places like Kano and beyond, we could have commenced today (Monday), but between Tuesday and Thursday, we are good to go. It will not go beyond this week. “To me, it is not about rushing to do something but to do it well and effective service delivery should be upper most. The aim is how it gets to the grassroots, especially the vulnerable and the physically challenged in the society without hitches.” The minister stated that those qualified to benefit from the palliatives are the real poor and vulnerable ones that are desirous, as well as anyone that comes up with a proof that his family is desirous of the palliative. Aliyu said that the administration has identified five large stores and five hostels at the Kubwa NYSC Orientation Camp to serve as storage facility and isolation centre respectively, adding that five trucks of palliative materials are expected to arrive today. “The NYSC camp is closed and every corps member is at home. We have many facilities like hostels, halls and worship centres. We have secured five large halls for storage of palliative materials to be distributed across the territory. “We are expecting about five trucks of deliverables today and we are here to inspect and secure the stores where these items will be kept. To safeguard the materials, we have increased the number of security personnel to man this environment and establishment of a police post.”