Ekiti State government, yesterday said that  70 people have been identified and traced as contacts of the 29- year old pregnant woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Speaking in Ado Ekiti yesterday the Health Commissioner, Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, said  the third coronavirus case in the state is gradually coming out of coma, stabilising and responding to treatment. Governor Kayode Fayemi, had while confirming the latest case last Saturday , said the woman, who is a health officer in Lagos,  sneaked into Ekiti  and went into coma after being operated upon at a private clinic during  labour. Yaya-Kolade said, “The news of the  third case was broken by Mr. Governor ,on Saturday. She went into coma before being referred to a teaching hospital.  I want to tell you that she is  improving. “As of now, she is stabilising and responding to treatment”. “Out of the 73, we have traced 70 of them and they are currently being monitored. We have advised them to be in self-isolation for 14 days while the secondary contacts are being traced with the aid of our district surveillance officers. “Some of the suspects who didn’t have homes to perform the self-isolation were being provided with accommodations by government”. The Commissioner added that 42 blood samples had been taken to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and that 39 had been done with  no confirmed result as of now. Also speaking, the Special Adviser on Security, Brig Gen. Ebenezer Ogundana, said in view of the latest development, the government had beefed up security at boundaries and working tirelessly to close down all identified porous routes  to check influx of the people. Ogundana added that the traditional rulers and youths of the border towns have been given the marching order to check authorised and unauthorised movements into the state from  neighbouring  states. On the efforts of the government to cushion the effect of lockdown on the populace, the Special Adviser to Governor Fayemi , in charge of Office of the Transformation and Strategy ,  Prof. Bolaji Aluko, said over 30,000 household packs of food items have been distributed to the residents as palliatives across the 16 local government areas of the state. Aluko added that the programme would be done in phases with people in all sectors to benefit at this time when businesses are adversely affected as a result of lockdown  to prevent the spread of the deadly Coronavirus pandemic .