In what it described as a routine exercise and in line with the rekindled spirit of professionalism, the Nigerian Army has announced the postings and appointments of some senior officers, mostly in the ranks of Generals. The exercise has been approved by the chief of army staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, according to a statement issued by acting director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa. Col. Musa said that “it is a routine/normal exercise intended to reinvigorate the system for greater professional effectiveness and efficiency.” Those affected by the posting and appointment are Maj-Gen. A.C.C. Agundu from Special Task Force (STF) Operation SAFE HAVEN, Jos to Nigerian Army Resource Centre (NARC), Abuja as senior research fellow; Maj- Gen. H.I. Bature from Defence Headquarters (DHQ) Defence Liaison Office National Assembly, Abuja, to Army Headquarters Department of Civil Military Affairs and appointed as chief of Civil-Military Affairs; Maj-Gen. U.M. Mohammed from Nigerian Army Property Limited (NAPL) to the Office of the Chief of Army Staff and appointed special adviser, Nigerian Army University Biu/deputy chairman, Board of Trustees NAPL while the former special adviser, Nigerian Army University Biu, Maj- Gen. C.C. Okonkwo now redeployed to STF Operation SAFE HAVEN, Jos and appointed commander;  Maj- Gen. F. Yahaya from Headquarters 1 Division, Kaduna to Headquarters Theatre Command Operation LAFIYA DOLE (OPLD), Maiduguri, and appointed commander, while Maj-Gen. O.G. Adeniyi is redeployed from Headquarters Theatre Command (OPLD), Maiduguri to NARC as senior research fellow; Maj-Gen. S. Idris from Sector 2 OPLD Damaturu, Yobe State, redeployed to DHQ, Abuja and appointed director liaison. Others are Maj-Gen. A.A. Adesope from Office of the Chief of Army Staff Directorate of Audit and Financial Management to NAPL and appointed group managing director; Maj-Gen. M.G. Ali from Headquarters Theatre Command (OPLD), Maiduguri, to Headquarters 4 Special Forces Command, Doma, Nasarawa State as commander while former Chief of Civil-Military Affairs AHQ, Abuja, Ma- Gen. U.S. Mohammed has been redeployed to 1 Division, Kaduna and appointed General Officer Commanding (GOC). Similarly, Brig-Gen. H.I. Daniel from the defunct  Army Special Forces Command, Maiduguri, to Headquarters, Training and Doctrine Command, Minna and appointed director, Army Training Support; Brig-Gen. B.E. Onyeuko remains in DHQ, Abuja as acting director, Defence Media Operation; Brig-Gen. N.M. Jega, from Training and Doctrine Command, Minna, to Infantry Corps Centre, Jaji and appointed chief of staff; Brig-Gen. L.A. Araba from Nigerian Army Welfare Limited by Guaranty, Abuja, now redeployed to Sector 2 OPLD Damaturu, Yobe State as acting commander; Brig-Gen V.O. Ita from DHQ, Abuja to Headquarters, 402 Special Forces Brigade, Azare and appointed commander while Brig-Gen. J.A.L. Jimoh from Sector 3 Artillery Brigade OPLD, Monguno to Headquarters, 31 Brigade, Minna and appointed commander, and Brig-Gen. G.T.O. Ajetunmobi, redeployed from 31 Brigade, Minna to Nigerian Army Welfare Limited by Guaranty, Abuja, as executive director (Operations). There are also Brig-Gen. L.G. Lepdung from Headquarters. Infantry Corps Centre. Jaji to DHQ, Abuja and appointed deputy director of Procurement (Logistics); Brig-Gen. M.O. Ihanuwaze to remain in the Office of the Chief of Army Staff, Directorate of Audit and Financial Management as acting director; Brig-Gen. E.C. Obi-Osang from the defunct Headquarters, 707 Special Forces’ Brigade, Makurdi to Headquarters, 401 Special Forces’ Brigade, Makurdi as commander while Brig-Gen. G.M. Mutkut is redeployed from the defunct Nigerian Army Amphibious Command OPLD, Baga to Headquarters, 403 Amphibious Brigade, Baga and appointed commander, and Brig-Gen. J.R. Lar from Nigerian Army School of Artillery, Kachia to Sector 3 Artillery Brigade OPLD ,Monguno as commander. Also, Col. D.J. Abdullahi from the defunct Headquarters, Nigerian Army Special Forces’ Command, Maiduguri to Headquarters, 4 Special Forces’ Command, Doma, Nasarawa State and appointed acting chief of staff; Col. E.C. Emere from Nigerian Army Archives to Nigerian Military School. Zaria as deputy commandant and Col. M.O. Agi is to remain in Headquarters, Nigerian Army Armour Corps, Bauchi, as acting chief of staff, among others. All the postings and appointments take effect from 1st April 2020, Col. Musa said.