The management of Five Star Logistics terminal at the Tin Can Island Port has raised alarm over the collapse of the cable ditch along the quay apron of berth 9 and 10 in the terminal. Five Star Logistics terminal, operators of the Roll on- Roll off (RoRo) container terminal at the Tin Can Island Ports has berths 9 and 10 covering its operational area with a total length of 437.03 metres. Speaking while fielding questions from journalists during a tour of the facility in Lagos by the Nigerian Shippers’ Council last week, the general manager of the terminal, Wolfgang Schneider, urged the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to reconstruct the collapsed cable ditch said the management of the terminal had on different occasion called the attention of NPA to the issue. According to him, it is the responsibility of NPA to carry out maintenance and repair works of the tower light area to the quay apron in line with the lease agreement. He said the collapsed portion of the quay apron is taking up commercial space at the terminal, calling on the NPA to intervene in the matter. He said, “We are losing a lot of space which could stack up to 100 containers as a result of this collapsed portion and it is pathetic. Any heavy object cannot go along the area because it is very dangerous. The quay wall has to be repaired first before we can fill up the failed portion to make sure that we are not sinking in. “From the tower light to the quay apron, it is purely NPA’s responsibility to maintain. We have been talking about this with NPA for years but nothing has been done.” Meanwhile, the terminal operator has called on the federal government to ensure that the evacuation of cargoes are done through badges.  He said, “We hope that the time is not too long and we are prepared to work as long as we can to keep the economy running and the most important thing we want to mention is barging. He however, disclosed that the terminal had turned back cargoes laden vessels because the terminal is filled to brim. “I have to return a container of about 1,000 TEU coming into my terminal because it is full to the brim and we have to get empty containers out and containers for Apapa discharged into my terminal. “I have to get hold of them by loading them into barges and taking them into terminal because some shipping companies said Apapa containers should be shipped through Tin-Can Island. It is very important traffic for all of us, terminal operators and shipping companies as they don’t come to Apapa port so very important thing to do.”