As crime rate surges in Lagos, Ogun and Kogi, men and officers of the Nigeria Police have taken the battle to the door steps of the criminals and arrested 219 of them. In Ogun and Lagos States, the police arrested 191 suspects for various crimes while another 28 were picked up in Kogi State in a major offensive against the men of the underworld. Force spokesman, Frank Mba, said yesterday that “a total of 191 suspects have been arrested in Lagos and Ogun States in connection with the recent activities of hoodlums and street urchins in the border communities between the two states.” He said that 15 locally-made guns, 52 live cartridges, 42 cutlasses and axes and large quantity of weeds suspected to be Marijuana were recovered from the hoodlums by the police teams in the Agbado, Ifo, Ota and Agege axis. Mba disclosed that that the inspector-general of police (IGP),  Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the immediate deployment of additional intelligence and operational assets of the force, comprising Police Mobile Force (PMF) Units, Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and the Special Tactical Squad (STS)in Lagos and Ogun to strengthen security and bolster public confidence in the affected areas. “The intervention team is being coordinated by a deputy inspector-general of police (DIG), Peter Babatunde Ogunyanwo, who doubles as the DIG in charge of the Department of Research and Planning of the force and the coordinating DIG for South-West geo-political zone. “He is to immediately oversee the deployments of these additional assets to enhance public safety, public confidence and general security in the two states,” he stated.  Meanwhile, the IGP has ordered commissioners of police across the country to immediately rejig the security architecture in their commands to effectively tackle all emerging crimes associated with the COVID-19 lockdown.  …Kogi Gov Declares War On Criminals In Kogi State, Governor Yahaya Bello has declared war on criminal elements who attempted to take advantage of the COVID-19 restriction order to raid some communities. Governor Bello particulalrly directed that the war should focus on kidnappers, bandits and armed robbers in the state. Already, the governor’s efforts have paid off as 28 criminals were arrested at different locations in the last seven days across the state. The hoodlums were arrested by the Joint Task Force of the State Vigilante Service and the Neigbourhood Watch. Among those arrested were four alleged dreadful kidnappers who confessed to be terrorisng the people of Dekina and Bassa local government areas on April 6. Also, over 16 members of a cult group who confessed to be from Ankpa local government area of the state were arrested in Olamaboro local government area where they were carrying out initiation of new members.  Suspected Herdsmen Behead 2 In Benue In another development, suspected armed herdsmen in the early hours of yesterday invaded Ologba community in Agatu local government area of Benue State and beheaded two young men. LEADERSHIP gathered that the attackers took away the heads of their victims to an unknown destination. A source in the area, Mr. Oyaje Sule, who also claimed to be an uncle to one of the victims, said that his nephew who he identified as Oche Alaade and his friend had visited the village when they met their sudden death. “The two young men who lived in Obagaji, the local government headquarters had travelled to Ologba and were on their way back when they were beheaded in an unprovoked attack by the armed herdsmen who laid siege on that parts of Agatu land,” he said. A former supervisory councillor and deputy chairmanship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the rescheduled local government election, John Ikulono, who confirmed the incident, said that as soon as he got the report he informed the local government chairman who immediately mobilised security personnel to the area. When contacted, the police spokesman, DSP Catherine Anene, said that she was yet to receive details of the attack.  