Dangote Cement Plc, Africa’s largest cement producer, had recently announced the successful issuance of N100 billion Series one Fixed Rate Senior Unsecured Bonds due April 2025 under the Company’s N300 billion Bond Programme. The transaction was 1.5 times oversubscribed and represents Dangote Cement’s debut bond issuance in the debt capital markets. The transaction, which was carried out under book building with respect to the issuance commenced on April 3, 2020 following approval from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and closed on April 15, 2020 at a coupon rate of 12.50 percent. Debt market is investments in debt securities typically involve less risk than equity investments and offer a lower potential return on investment. Debt investments by nature fluctuate less in price than stocks. Even if a company is liquidated, bondholders are the first to be paid. Bonds are the most common form of debt investment, Commercial Papers, among others. Dangote Cement, which is the largest company by market capitalisation on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), inaugurated issuance of bond under its N300 billion shelf programme. The multinational firm intends to issue its maiden series of bonds (the ‘series one bonds’) immediately and subjects to obtaining regulatory approvals and favourable market conditions. The management of Dangote Cement Plc disclosed the proceeds of the series one bond would be used to refinance existing short-term debt that was previously used for cement expansion projects. The raised funds from this exercise will also be used as additional working capital as well as for general corporate purposes. Despite current market headwinds due to the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the transaction was extremely well received and attracted significant demand from a wide range of high-quality investors including domestic pension funds, asset managers, insurance companies, banks and international fund managers. The total order book amounted to N155 billion.  The transaction represents the largest corporate bond issuance in Nigeria’s debt capital markets, reflecting Dangote Cement’s strong credit quality as well as the resilience of the Nigerian debt capital market despite current global challenges.  The transaction enables the Company to lower its average cost of debt and extend the average maturity of its debt. Dangote Cement intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to refinance existing short-term debt previously applied towards cement expansion projects, working capital and general corporate purposes.  Speaking on the bond issuance, chief executive officer of Dangote Cement, Michel Puchercos said, “This landmark transaction is the largest ever bond issuance by a corporate issuer in Nigeria. It allows us to further broaden our sources of funding by accessing long-term debt at competitive costs from the capital market and builds further on the success of our domestic commercial paper programme. “The success of this transaction, in the current challenging environment, illustrates investors’ continuous confidence in Dangote Cement’s strategy, strong cash generation and solid credit profile.” Stanbic IBTC Capital acted as the Lead Issuing House for the Series one Bonds, and Absa Capital Markets Nigeria, Standard Chartered Capital & Advisory Nigeria, United Capital, Coronation Merchant Bank, Ecobank Development Corporation Nigeria, FCMB Capital Markets, FBNQuest Merchant Bank, Rand Merchant Bank, Quantum Zenith Capital, Futureview Financial Services and Vetiva Capital Management acted as Joint Issuing Houses. The Bonds will be listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited, and for the first time in the history of the Nigerian debt capital markets, investors will have the option of lodging securities with either the Central Securities Clearing System or the FMDQ Depository. Meanwhile, the management of the Company recently presented its audited full year financial results ended December 31, 2019 to the investing public, with an impressive dividend payout. The company rewarded its shareholders with an impressive return on their investment as the directors recommended an increased dividend of N16 per share for approval at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for June 15, 2020. The Group’s investment across Africa is bearing the desired results as Pan-African sales volume grew in the year 2019, hitting 9.6Mt from 9.4Mt. According to the full year report released on the floor of the NSE, Dangote Cement Plant, Mtwara, Tanzania, recorded an increase of 94 percent increase in volume within the review period. Dangote Cement Plant, Pout, Senegal put up a remarkable performance with sales up more than 100 percent of rated capacity. “Dangote Cement Plc is Sub-Saharan Africa’s largest cement producer with an installed capacity of 45.6Mta capacity across 10 African countries,” the company said in a statement. “We operate a fully integrated “quarry-to-customer” business with activities covering manufacturing, sales and distribution of cement. We have a production capacity of 29.3Mta in our home market, Nigeria. “Our Obajana plant in Kogi state, Nigeria, is the largest in Africa with 13.3Mta of capacity across four lines; our Ibese plant in Ogun State has four cement lines with a combined installed capacity of 12Mta and our Gboko plant in Benue state has 4Mta. “Through our recent investments, Dangote Cement has eliminated Nigeria’s dependence on imported cement and has transformed the nation into an exporter of cement serving neighboring countries. “In addition, we have operations in Cameroon (1.5Mta clinker grinding), Congo (1.5Mta), Ghana (1.5Mta import), Ethiopia (2.5Mta), Senegal (1.5Mta), Sierra Leone (0.5Mta import), South Africa (2.8Mta), Tanzania (3.0Mta), Zambia (1.5Mta).” Dangote Cement has a long-term credit rating pf AA+ by GCR and Aa2.ng by Moody’s due to its market leading position, significant operational scale and strong financial profile evidenced by the Company’s robust operating and net profit margins relative to regional and global peers, adequate working capital, satisfactory cashflow and low leverage. Dangote Cement is a subsidiary of Dangote Industries Limited, a diversified and fully integrated conglomerate as well as a leading brand across Africa in businesses such as cement, sugar, salt, pasta, beverages, and real estate, with new multi-billion dollar projects underway in the oil and gas, petrochemical, fertiliser and agricultural sectors. QUOTE Despite current market headwinds due to the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the transaction was extremely well received and attracted significant demand from a wide range of high-quality investors including domestic pension funds, asset managers, insurance companies, banks and international fund managers.