Chinedu Echeruo is the owner of HotStop, an app built to help Americans with directions in the subway. The Nigerian born once told  Allison Fass of Inc that he spends a lot of hours on the app, despite the fact that it has only three pages. HopStop is an online city transit guide offering detailed, door-to-door biking, bus, subway, taxi, train, and walking directions in real time, as well as official transit maps for 600 cities around the world via Hopstop.com or apps for Android devices, iPads, iPhones, and Windows Phones. Founded in 2005, the company was named one of the top 100 fastest growing software companies in the United States in 2011. Transit directions were available for several major metropolitan areas, which  include: Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Las Vegas, London, Los Angeles, New York City, Paris, Philadelphia, Portland, Oregon, San Francisco, Seattle, Toronto and Washington, D.C. Though Echeruo was born in the eastern part of Nigeria,  he had his secondary education at Kings’ College, Lagos and a B.S in Finance and Accounting (Honors) from Syracuse University. He proceeded to Harvard Business School in the United States where he earned an M.B.A.  Echeruo put his business degree to use while working at J.P Morgan Chase, an investment banking company. There, he was involved in a broad range of M&A, financing and private equity transactions. He also worked with AM Investment Partners, a $500 million volatility-driven convertible bond arbitrage hedge fund. The Tech-specialist subsequently left the investment world to start his software company, Hopstop.com  in 2005. The idea to start a navigation service for pedestrians came after he got tired of getting lost in New York City’s transport system. His frustration led to the invention of a service that assisted people get door-to-door mass transit, walking, biking, and taxi directions from various parts of the country as well as other parts of the world. HopStop, which covered over 300 cities throughout the United States, Canada, Europe, and the United Kingdom, made a name for itself in the location-based service industry. It won Black Enterprise’s Small Business Innovator of the Year Award in 2007 and was later named one of the top 100 fastest growing software companies in the United States. By 2010, Echeruo’s service had grown 250 percent from $574,268 to $2 million in revenue and then an estimated $5 million in 2012. It’s no surprise that it caught the eye of tech giant Apple Inc who then acquired HopStop for an estimated $1 billion. Commenting on the acquisition, Jim Thatcher, a researcher who specialises in mobile mapping technology said: “There is no doubt that Apple paid a large sum for HopStop. There is a gold rush for mapping apps like it.” After selling HopStop, Echeruo became a principal at Constant Capital Partners Ltd. Explaining his decision to be part of a boutique investment bank and personal investment company in West Africa, he said, “I am excited to be part of the change in culture and economy of Africa right now.” This innovative Nigerian entrepreneur went on to launch a “cause-driven” social platform called Gigameet now known as MindMeet, it was a recipient of the 2019 “World’s Most Innovative Company” award. Prior to starting Gigameet, he founded U.S-based internet company called Tripology.com. A travel referral service that  was later acquired in 2010 by Rand McNally but presently owned by USA. He is also the co-founder of the Love and Magic Company, a startup studio and an inventor of US Patent 7,957,871, for Methods and Apparatuses for navigation in urban environments. Echeruo said he would spend hours on the app to see how many aspects of the app could work and how the users’ experience could be improved. He expressed joy that all the hard work put into the app paid off following the wide acceptance. When asked how the app gained widespread acceptance he said, he tied everything down to good marketing strategy, explaining that he took time to send  out mails to tech writers and journalists. He revealed that the end result of the publicity plan for the app led to the unexpected crash of HotStop site. He said, there was so much traffic. Note that though the app was reportedly built for 300 cities in the US and was later bought by Apple for $1 billion, unconfirmed reports via twitter handle has it that the techprenueur is currently in Nigeria to invest. Chinedu Echeruo, formerly an analyst at investment banks and hedge funds, founded HopStop in 2005 and was  chairman of the board of HopStop. He left HopStop in 2009 to found “cause-driven” social platform Gigameet. Joe Meyer, formerly Vice President and General Manager for AOL’s Quigo Technologies, came on as HopStop’s President and CEO in 2009. Since the release of iOS 6 in September 2012, in which Apple replaced support for Google Maps with their own mapping, HopStop was named as one of the top transit apps for Apple products by multiple publishers, including Business Insider, FastCompany, and Wired. When Apple Inc. acquired HopStop in July 2013, it dropped support for Windows Phone a few days later. In September 2013, Apple removed the Android version of its app from the Play Store. Record has it that since October 2015, HopStop is no longer available on any platform; Apple, instead, began using the iOS 9 update to supply Apple Maps transit directions. Apple received criticism in response to this shutdown, mostly due to the discontinued support of around 100 cities and the very early release of the iOS 9 update.