Former governor of Gombe State and accountant-general of the Federation, Dr Ibrahim Dankwambo, has called for the review of the nation’s Finance Act to capture key public finance reforms including the Treasury Single Account (TSA) and Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). The former AGF said such an action would prevent the public finance reforms of government from easy manipulation by political office holders whose tenure of office is usually temporal – either as elected or appointed officials of government. “I hope other reforms; similar reforms will be documented in this way. Going forward, for me that has also experienced the other side of the country as a politician, reforms can come and reforms can go. These reforms must be made into law so that we politicians who come and go will not just come and take all these reforms for granted and waste them,” he stated. Dr Dankwambo said lack of strong legal backing or parliamentary provisions for government reforms and non-documentation to show how the original owners of the initiatives intended to do what they had to do often lead to such policies discarded. He therefore called on the current AGF, Ahmed Idris to “Immediately take step to ensure that our Finance Act is reviewed over and over again to capture some of these reforms so that they are not easily influenced by some of our colleagues as they come and go.” Speaking at the launching/presentation of a book on TSA titled: ‘Treasury Single Account Policy in Nigeria’ Dr Danwkwambo said, “if I want to win election, am going to ask you and say if I become President today, no more TSA. Won’t I get your vote? But am I doing the right thing? But for me as a politician I want to win. Anyhow I win no problem.” Past government of Goodluck Jonathan introduced TSA as a quick fix to regulating the level of accountability and transparency in the financial resources of the government of the country. TSA is a unified structure of government bank accounts enabling consolidation and optimal utilisation of government cash resources. Through this bank account or set of linked bank accounts, the government transacts all its receipts and payments and gets a consolidated view of its cash position at any given time through the Remita e-Collection platform and other electronic payment channels. A source in the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation told this correspondent that the TSA policy is being implemented under the cover of Federal Executive Council (FEC) approval and based on other relevant provisions of public finance administration of the federal government. The book was written by Salawu Zubairu, the director, Funds in ministry of foreign affairs. In his welcome remarks, AGF Idris said the Treasury personnel should imbibe the idea of faithful implementation of the principles and dictates of TSA. He also mentioned that the OAGF is always ready to support similar initiatives that can deepen the efficient management of the nation’s treasury. The book reviewer, Prof Jabiru Isah Fandango of department of Accounting, Bayero University, Kano said the book is a good contribution to the effective management of public finance and accountability. He said it will constitute a major companion for people in different related fields as public account and public sector accounting. Prof Fandango said the book has made suggestions on how to being changes to public accounting system. It emphasised on the need for relevant agencies of government to faithfully implement TSA for maximum result. “This book should be made a reference material for public accounting studies at all levels. This book should be a relevant material in the syllabus,” he said.