Cross Rivers State governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, in this interview with State House correspondents explains the imperative of the Bakassi Deep Seaport project to northern Nigeria and how it can transform the economy of the region, his relationship with detained journalist, Agba Jalingo, among other issues. JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH was there for LEADERSHIP Friday. On his visit to President Buhari… The essence of my visit to Mr. President was to share with him a quarterly brief as I have always done, giving him a clear idea and indication of what Cross River state has done so far, particularly in our major signature projects. Our discussion also extended and included issues that border on financial status of Cross Rivers state vis-a-vis the Supreme Court judgement regarding the loss of Bakassi and its downstream criminative implication on the Federal Fovernment’s action and position on the issues that deal with destabilisation and consistent support of Cross River state, pending as long as the oil loss exist and persist. The position of the Supreme Court has been obeyed religiously since 2002 to date and I am happy that the President has maintained that decision to continuously find means and ways to support Cross Rivers, pending the determination and finalisation as an alternative income mechanism to support the state. To that extent, I will like to commend Mr. President most especially for his usual kindness towards the people of Nigeria and Cross River in particular. However, the discussion also went beyond that to his key thrust, which is Nigeria beyond oil. President Muhammadu Buhari came into office with a clear mandate to the entire Nigerians that we must focus on creating our alternative income beyond oil. Against that background, I took his policy thrust and drove it strongly, expanding and focusing especially on rice and grains. On the rice beneficiation process, we also discussed the issue of rice mills, the rice seedlings factory, the only seedling factory in Africa, which is actually providing seedlings for all farmers, working and collaborating with the Central Bank. He came to do the commissioning of that factory and gave a standing mandate and order that Nigeria must move from seeds to seedlings, which is the right way to go if you must actually have full value per acreage of your farmland. So that was also elaborately discussed. The super highway came in as a frontal issues for discussion. The super highway and the deep seaport go together as a twin project. Basically speaking, in the nation, we have only one maritime corridor in this country and that is Lagos state of all the viable ports. But with the congestion of Lagos Port, there is a gradually movement as a strategic government policy to see how some of the eastern ports can begin to have life and have cargo coming in. It is good to announce also that the existing federal government port, NPA Calabar is beginning to receive light vessels with a tonnage of less than 6,000 tons coming into Calabar. But that is completely different, the message and the trust is that the Bakassi deep seaport, with an evacuation corridor to northern Nigeria, is the strategic way forward for this country. The major deposits outside of hydrocarbon in this country is in northern Nigeria. The solid minerals deposits from tantalite to tantalum to bogzide to coal and all those rear metals are found in the northern part of Nigeria. Unfortunately, it is impossible for you to evacuate all of that through the roads to a near 2,000 kilometers to ship out of Lagos. Obviously, we have a massive wealth hidden under the ground. I will not bore you of taking into the Cold War of US and Russia and how it affects Nigeria. Because, there is a great concern that the order of steel out of other countries other than Africa should be reviewed. Against that background, there is a growing interest in a solid minerals deposit in Nigeria and research has found out from satellite probing, it’s been discovered that the northern Nigeria has the highest deposit of rear earth and essential metals. And the only way the northern part of Nigeria can have the full benefits of their God given wealth in terms of solid minerals deposits, is only when we have the access and the keys to the Atlantic as a major source of export. Today, vessels come into Nigeria and discharge goods and they have nothing to take back because, we have an import dependent country, we have very little to export other than crude oil. So against that background an alternative ports like the Bakassi deep seaport with the six lane evacuation corridor, stretching from Bakassi to northern Nigeria terminating at Benue State becomes the most imperative, urgent thing that as a government we must see. That project is not a Cross River project, is a northern Nigeria project. Because, in Bauchi state alone the amount of tantalum you can pick abruptly, which means of you go to a particular belt, you can pick tantalite off the ground. But today, we have 20 container loads of tantalite in Bauchi but it’s evacuation requires a port. Niger, Chad and all of this other countries in the northern parts of Nigeria are completely landlords. They evacuate gum Arabic and all their hydrocarbons including cotton and the rest through Cameroon, which is over 2,000 kilometers. A very difficult terrain and a very hostile country. They have written to cross river state on the Bakassi deep seaport, whose phase three is going to be 20 meters drive, is urgent is critical and they want to take bonded warehouse in the Bakassi deep seaport. So, Mr. president understands indeed that coming into life, the Bakassi deep seaport with an evacuation corridor to north is like taking the Atlantic Ocean to northern Nigeria. It is a strategic way of putting an end to the insurgency, militancy, kidnappings and the Boko Haram issues. Because, indeed once people are hungry then the bestiality and the criminality becomes evident. If we don’t create an alternative corridor and as a country we remain wholly dependent on Lagos, for which the Lagos State governor has cried out, please let other ports work so that we can decongest Lagos, now if we don’t create that…let’s look at it from the security point of view, if you can burn down Atlas Cove or make it impossible for goods to get to Lagos, in two days Nigeria can be captured. We don’t have strategic food reserves, we don’t have strategic storage or petroleum products, so in event that you are unable to get in and out of Lagos, what else? Then you are in trouble. So a major alternative Port needs to exist and close to the north and that will link eastern flank. And that eastern flank Calabar is the closest and with the new super highway that cuts travel time from seven hours to one hour forty five minutes, it is the best option to go with a cargo rail running by the side. That is the strategic masterplan which is even contained in the master plan of President Buhari‘s Nigeria beyond oil. So what I have done is adopt that Buhari’s Programme and bringing it into densification by drawing the distillation of the true value for the people of Cross River State, the eastern flank of Nigeria, the southern part and the entire northern part of Nigeria, they have full benefits of this port. Let me say it very urgently, that people don’t draw project based on what they have. In international business management, in public sector management, you are driven by the tenacity, the capacity of your dreams and ambition. So the Cross River state N1.1 trillion budget was to clearly define a prosperity agenda of Cross River State based on an ambition and over plus budget that shows the will power, the capacity and carry us beyond the carrying capacity that is normal. It is against that background that we have a N1.1 trillion and definitely we must associate with Mr. President to support us in the process of making super highway a reality, making the deep seaport a reality so that our brothers in the northern part of Nigeria including Niger and Chad, will have opportunity to be able to do evacuation of the products and produce across Nigeria into the Bakassi deep seaport. It is way of the future, it is the way to go in this country, it is a security issue, it is social issue, it is indeed an economic issue. Those projects are not solely for the governor of the cross rivers state, it is the responsibility of the federal government. The fact that I conceived it based in the advise and inspiration of President Buhari doesn’t make it my duty, it is the federal government responsibility to join hands with me and that is why I am here. The press has a responsibility to educate the public, because you are the public conscience, you are the people who determine, who give a direction, who give an impetus to a project. The super highway and the deep seaport are very critical. Finally, as part of the discussion with Mr President, we have agreed without specificity of date but agreement in terms of period, he will be visiting cross river state to commission yet again, a new programme called G-money. G-money is an empowerment of young people through agriculture, job creation through agriculture, establishing massive equipment. We, as a state government procured the equipment from John Deere of the United States, the biggest company in the world for deforestation, land clearing, land preparation for agriculture. With the partnership we have with Tata, the local partner, we have made order and taken delivery of a large number of tractors, bulldozers, payloaders, excavators, the list is endless. So we are going to create jobs for over 2,000 young people who will have at least 5,000 hectares of farmland for rice. Mr. President will flag off the G-money programme, which is a green economy focusing on agriculture as a way forward. For a country that imports rice, where rice is our staple food with the northern and southern parts of Nigeria, it is a key project to Mr. President, lifting women and young people out of unemployment by creating green jobs for them. So the president has given his approval that he is coming to do the grand commissioning of the G-money programme and all the requirement we have procured, including the new factory, that is the slaughter house for poultry  On the continuous detention of  Journalist Agba Jalingo… The case is between Agba Jalingo and the Federal Government of Nigeria. On his Facebook page, he posted an ambitious programme. Please don’t get it wrong, Agba Jalingo is not just from Cross River state, he’s not just from Obudu, where I also come from, he’s my brother. On his Facebook page, he sent pictures where he was being teargassed at the Revolution March in Lagos. His own pictures, posted by himself and when Sowore was being arrested, he went back to his Facebook to post that the revolution has just started, ‘we will continue this battle until revolution works’. He admitted this in court. In court, it is Federal Government versus Agba Jalingo, not Cross River State. The same Agba Jalingo who is in jail, I send him money. I called my Chief Press Secretary and others and said that journalists will not understand that Agba Jalingo is the state chairman of Sowore’s party, from the time he moved into politics, he became a politician. You are seeing him as a journalist, but he’s not, he’s the chairman of Sowore’s party in Cross River state, so he’s a politician. He has a primary calling, which is journalism. Please as Agba Jalingo, that Cross River Watch, the first person to give him money to set up the office was myself. His official vehicle, it was me. I don’t have to list all of these, he knows that I have funded and supported him, but journalism stops where blackmail becomes part of your strategy. Today you need something, then Ayade is a good man and you start writing all the good things, but if I take my phone and show you our Whatsapp communication, you will call me a godly man. Today I need money to set up a computer school, tomorrow I need money to feed my birds, the other day I need to be INNOSON’s sole distributor in Cross River State, I did all that. But when I don’t get a thing right, you go to the social media and write something as careless as ‘Governor Ayade has taken N500 million to Russia’. You impugned my father’s name, my character, my family name, for just a personal request that I’ve not met, out of many that I have met. Please for once, put yourselves in my shoes. All I simply did was to stay out of the issue. He’s in court for treason, a state does not have power to try anyone for treason, it’s not me. Agba Jalingo is not a journalist, he is the chairman of a political party and so once he started the campaign to overthrow the government of President Buhari, he ceased to be seen from the point of a journalist because he has become the state chairman of a party. I have an intellectual background as a professor, I will stand with journalists at all times and I will never prosecute somebody, but if you ask Agba Jalingo today, I’m the one working with his lawyers for his freedom, I’m the one sustaining him and sending upkeeps, the same man who once called me a golden brother, that I’ve stood with him through tough times. When he started publishing damaging articles against the state, I called him as a brother, I said look, the former governor told me that you so much blackmailed him, that his wife was detained because she was involved in child trafficking. He had to resort to settling him monthly. When journalism gets to that level, it becomes very dangerous and I don’t want you people to support a course that is not fair. I am of the opinion that Agba should be released because I think he was just youthfully excited, but let him not use the power of the pen, let him not use journalism and hide to blackmail, chastise lampoon, destroy another person just for personal economic benefit.