Investments in digital transformation and innovation will account for 30 per cent of all information technology (IT) spending in the Middle East, Turkey, and Africa (META) by 2024, up from 18 per cent in 2018. That is according to the latest predictions revealed yesterday by International Data Corporation (IDC) as it hosted more than 500 of the region’s most influential ICT industry figures at Dubai’s Atlantis, The Palm for IDC Directions 2020. Opening the day’s proceedings, the firm’s group vice president and regional managing director, Jyoti Lalchandani, explained that spending in these two areas is leaving the rest of the market in its wake, increasing at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 18 per cent versus 1.5 per cent for the rest of IT. The event showcased insights from IDC’s chief research officer, Meredith Whalen, who had flown in from the United States to present a keynote on ‘The CEO’s New Agenda for Running a Digital Enterprise’. During this session she explained that IDC’s global research had identified three of the most pressing items on this new agenda as the need to build digital trust programs, enable the development of an intelligent organisation, and embrace new industry ecosystems. “The digital economy is at a critical tipping point,” said Whalen. “In just a few short years, IDC forecasts that nearly half of all GDP worldwide will come from products and services offered by digitally transformed organisations. “In order to thrive, organizations must define their new role in this digital economy and proactively address new customer requirements around personalisation and trust. They must also develop new capabilities around digital innovation, work, and intelligence, and build a digital IT infrastructure that supports resilient operations and pervasive experiences.” The agenda incorporated various individually themed expert-led sessions exploring a diverse range of topics such as 5G, IoT, AI, cloud, Smart Cities, hyperconverged systems, software-defined infrastructure, automation, security, managed services, digital document solutions, mobile phones, PCs, and wearables. There were also in-depth discussions on the emerging opportunities that exist in key markets such as Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Africa, and the UAE, with IDC forecasting the latter to see a 5.1 per cent year-on-year jump in IT spending this year to $8.45 billion. There were also in-depth discussions on the emerging opportunities that exist in key markets such as Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Africa, and the UAE, with IDC forecasting the latter to see a 5.1 per cent year-on-year jump in IT spending this year to $8.45 billion.