The chief Scientific Officer of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) department, federal ministry of environment, Mrs Modupe Odimayo has expressed worry that if government fails to implement policies to address importation of e-waste into the country, that it may likely cause more health and environmental disasters. This is even as she harped on the need for decisive actions in the management of e-waste, adding that e-waste management in Nigeria is very significant to the environment as it pollutes both the ground and surface water, including the atmosphere. She stated this in Abuja during a one-day stakeholders meeting organized by Xploits Consulting limited in partnership with Access bank Plc with the theme, ‘E-waste Management in Nigeria: Creating a Roadmap for Efficient Management’. Odimayo maintained that EIA department is working assiduously to complement the existing guidelines by issuing permit to private sectors who are into the management of e-waste like Ibeto Group. The Convener of the meeting, Dr Tayo Taiwo said that though government has embarked on lots of initiatives on e-waste that Nigeria is a populous and consuming nation, adding that Nigerians desire for electronics can translate to health and environmental risks. Taiwo who is also the managing partner of Xploits Consulting limited pointed out that he had earlier kicked against the arrest of hawkers by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) but suggested that it’s impossible to maintain sanity in the city without enforcement. On his part, the director-general of National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA), Prof Aliyu Jauro hinted that the extraction process of e-waste is risky and should be handled by refineries and not scavengers, adding that the extraction of e-waste should be done in enclosed system and not through open burning that is accompanied by unexplainable health issues. Jauro who was represented by director of Inspection and Enforcement, NESREA, Mrs Miranda Amachree recalled that Basel Action Network (BAN) in conjunction with BCC Nigeria had in 2005 carried out a study which revealed that Nigeria imported about 500, 000 used computers annually through the Lagos Port alone. Amachree pointed out that out of the 500,000 computers, that about 25 percent were functional Used Electrical/Electronics Equipment (UEEE) while the remaining 75 percent were junk, which was eventually burnt or dumped carelessly with municipal waste. The director disclosed that Person-in-Port (PIP) project by United Nations university in 2016 also confirmed that estimated 60, 000 tons of UEEE was imported through the Lagos two main ports excluding the land routes, even as most imported UEEE were partially functional while a fraction remained non-functional. The DG stated that the agency issued permit on toxic substance and air quality to industries as well as register waste handlers and major collecting centres and not the informal sector. Also speaking, the managing director of Ecosphere Consult Limited, Mr Damilola Adesina said that governments efforts on handling e-waste was primarily centered on controlling the importation of e-waste. He wondered why government agencies like NESREA, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and other environmental agencies cannot harmonise their regulations for enhanced operational service to Nigerians. The president, Association of Environmental Impact Assessment in Nigeria (AEIAN), Alhaji Ahmed Sanda noted that though Nigeria lacked the human capacity to manage e-waste, that there is great opportunity in waste management. Sanda tasked the convener of the meeting to reach out to the association of scavengers popularly called Baban bola to enable them collaborate with NESREA on sound management of e-waste. Lending his voice, the director of PRS, Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Mr Olugbenga Adeyemi added that the agency doesn’t dispose waste through landfill method but open burning, noting that in the hierarchy of waste disposal that landfill is unhealthy for Nigeria. This he said is one of the reason that the agency is emphasizing on recycling through circular economy, assuring that with sophisticated technology that AEPB could checkmate any vehicle that dumped waste illegally. He maintained that though there are registered and non-registered collectors that the agency is strategizing to register all vehicles involved in waste collection services. Adeyemi sought for the empowerment of Baban bola to enable them get value for the items collected. 