In order to improve and expand access to mental health services in Nigeria, particularly in Imo state, Yale University has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Imo state government on Health Action for Psychiatric Problems in Nigeria including Epilepsy and Substances (HAPPINESS Project) Speaking at the press briefing which held in Lagos at the weekend, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, Yale school of medicine, Thaddeus Iheanacho said the motive behind the project is to  bring solutions to the country, majorly to the  remote Imo state where it is virtually impossible to get a mental health care referral as there is no psychiatric hospital across the 2,135 square mile territory. Iheanacho who is also the co founder of the HAPPINESS project, said the program which was launched in 2018 with the support of his colleagues, Charles Dike also an associate professor of psychiatry at the medical school and both indigenes of Imo state said the program initially taught more than three dozen healthcare workers how to integrate mental health services into routine primary care. Over 50 patients were seen after the first training session and many more people who otherwise would have gone without treatment are now being evaluated and treated by clinicians. According to him, he said, the goal is to expand the program to all primary care facilities in Imo state and eventually to other Nigerian states by training primary care workers in Imo State to screen for, assess, and treat mental health conditions like depression, psychosis, and anxiety. “Most of these people would otherwise not have access to treatment or else would have traveled five or six hours to get it. Anything we can do to push the needle, even if we can only get 100 people into care, it’s worth it.” He noted that this partnership between Yale School of Medicine’s Department of Psychiatry and Imo State University Teaching Hospital is supported by the Yale Global Mental Health Program, CBM International, the Imo State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Row Foundation (USA) and the Imo State Government. He disclosed the program has been embraced by some Nigerian government agencies and the trainees have sought ways to expand the base of support in their villages noting that there is a realization on the need to include some community resources such as connections to the churches and community leaders. Commenting on the partnership, president, Yale University, Peter Salovey, said the global health leadership initiative, this is a collaboration among researchers, practitioner, policy makers around the world including in Africa. It involves experience in medicine, nursing, public health and management looking at great global health challenges. That project involves the delivery of services to help people with mental health challenges across the country. He explained that the university is building on other programs leadership firm for strategic impact such as a key program for the women leaders in Africa serving in government. The Yale global network for Advanced Management, the global network for Advanced Management involves 30 business schools 31 actually around the world including four in Africa, Nigeria, Ghana, in South Africa, and Kenya which form a network of business schools that share students, that share teaching, that share professors usually through technology and has really broaden MBA education around the world. Yale will co sponsor two meetings of the African linguistics school.