The Human Rights Writers Association (HURIWA) has faulted appointments made in the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) by the minister of Power, Engr Sale Mamman. The group said that it had petitioned the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to clarify the status of one of the new appointees in the Procurement Unit, Mr. Bulus Maiyaki who has been under investigation over his roles in a similar capacity in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). Maiyaki is from the same Taraba State with the minister. It said that a memo from the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) was explicit that REA is under the supervision of the Minister of State for Power, Goddy Jeddy Agba. HURIWA, which made its opinion known in a statement by its national coordinator, Comrade Emmanuel Onwubiko, said the appointments made in REA were lopsided. The statement reads in part:  “HURIWA does not want or intend to dabble into the internal politics that motivated the Honourable Minister of Power into making those appointments. “But we are basically writing to protest the lopsidedness observable in this action and the breach of the ethical codes as clearly stated out by the appointing authority through the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation as emphasised by a memorandum of modus operandi authored by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. “As reported by  the media and as confirmed by our team who visited the premises of the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), most staff of the agency have faulted the ministerial interference. “According to our findings from their agitation  he ( the minister) is not the one supervising REA going by the clear Presidential guidelines issued from the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation which goes to show that REA is under the direct supervision of the Minister of State,  who had no hand in the redeployment of staff in the agency. “There is little doubts from our findings that the staff are alleging that the postings were lopsided with the Minister of Power allegedly redeploying four favourites (three from the North-East and one from the North-West) to the Procurement Unit. “Specifically, going by  a memo, which was signed by the Head of Human Resources and Administration, Rakiya Ahman Mustapha, the affected top directors were redeployed with effect from January 2 just as those redeployed got their letters about two to three hours before the new Managing Director, Engr. Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad assumed duties last Thursday. “ We have regrettably read in the media the heightened state of tension currently in the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) over redeployment of top staff by the Minister of Power, Engr.  Mamman Sale few hours before the assumption of duties by the new Managing Director of the agency, Engr. Ahmad Salihijo Ahmad. “Importantly, we reject this move by the Minister of Power to impose his lackeys to take charge of funds and procurement in the Rural Electrification Agency and in the case of the nominee of the minister to take charge of the Procurement Department.” The association put the minister to task on the appointment of a new Procurement Director for REA, Mr. Bulus D. Maiyaki. “We hereby ask the minister to withdraw this appointment immediately or to clearly tell Nigerians if his nominee in the person of Mr. Bulus D. Maiyaki is not the same official in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) who was the Secretary of Tenders Board under the discredited erstwhile Executive Secretary Professor Usman Yusuf who was dismissed from office for alleged procurement related infraction by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration following a petition being investigated by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission. “HURIWA is also by this letter writing to pray the minister of Power to put on hold these appointments with specific reference to that of Mr. Bulus .D. Maiyaki.” The statement confirmed that HUIRIWA has written ICPC to clarify the status of the ongoing investigation of the new Procurement Director of REA. However the ministry has dismissed the allegations saying that as the Minister superintending over the affairs of the ministry and all departments and agencies under it, he is not expected to fold his arms while an agency that is very critical such as REA is suffering maladministration. The minister’s spokesman, Aeron Aromas also told LEADERSHIP that the allegation that Maiyaki is facing corruption charges is unfounded, adding that Maiyaki personally confirmed to him that ICPC has never served him any letter inviting him over any corrupt practices. According to him, “The appointments of Maiyaki and others were not done based on any sentiment. For instance, Maiyaki is a Christian Jukun from Taraba while the Minister is a Moslem Fulani, so they are two different people from different backgrounds. Besides, Maiyaki has done a lot in the industry to merit being promoted to the rank of MD.”