DANJUMA JOSEPH takes a look at some news makers who the headlines in 2019. The political space was defined by the actions and sometimes, inactions of some political actors. Their interventions did not just spice up the political space but helped to give some direction on the trajectory of the polity. Olusegun Obasanjo The day Obasanjo took office as the first elected and civilian head of state in Nigeria after 16 years of military rule, is now commemorated as Democracy Day, a public holiday in Nigeria. This was later changed to June 12 in honour of Chief M.K.O Abiola by the Muhammadu Buhari Administration in 2018. Obasanjo has made a good job and convention of writing letters at critical junctures of the nation’s odyssey. His letters to ex- president Ibrahim Babangida, the late Gen Sani Abacha, and ex- president Goodluck Jonathan were instructive. He again did what he is adept at doing, releasing a letter to President Muhammadu Buhari urging him not to re- contest in the 2019 general elections. The tone, content, dialectics, clarity and message are no less different from previous ones. Beyond the sabre- rattling and brawling equivocation, Obasanjo is regurgitating the romantic past of the world of letter writing. He tends to walk with Lord Byron that “letter writing is the only device for combining solitude with good company”. Justice Onnoghen Another newsmaker in 2019 is the former chief justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Samuel Nkanu Onnoghen, GCON. He is the former Chief Justice of Nigeria. Before joining the Supreme Court, he was a judge in Cross River State and a justice of the Court of Appeal. Onnoghen has been enmeshed in a false asset declaration scandal since January 2019, as upon resuming office as CJN, failed to declare a domiciliary US dollar account, a domiciliary euro account, a domiciliary (pound sterling) account, an e-saver savings (naira) account and a naira account, all maintained with Standard Chartered Bank (Nig.) Ltd in Abuja as part of the compulsory asset declaration form. Onnoghen, 68, was due for retirement in 2020, but he turned in his resignation letter as CJN on April 4, 2019, to save himself from prosecution.   Orji Uzo Kalu Senator Orji Uzo Kalu, a senator and former governor of Abia State, made news in the country when he was sent to prison. The Federal High Court in Lagos sentenced Sen Kalu to 12 years imprisonment after being found guilty on all the 39-count charges brought against him. He was convicted of N7.65 billion fraud perpetuated when he was Abia State governor between 1999 and 2007. Kalu was convicted alongside his firm, Slok Nigeria Limited and his former Abia State director of finance, Ude Udeogu. The court also ordered forfeiture of all assets of his company to the federal government. Justice Mohammed Idris, who delivered the sentence, had earlier declared him guilty of the charge in the case that had been on for 12 years.   Atiku  Abubakar Atiku Abubakar is a politician, businessman, philanthropist and presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at the 2019 Nigerian general election. He served as the 11th vice-president of Nigeria from 1999 to 2007 under the presidency of Olusegun Obasanjo. Atiku managed to remain, somewhat,  in the spotlight after losing his petition challenging Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election at the Supreme Court in October, 2019. Nigeria’s Supreme Court ruled that Atiku and PDP failed to prove their case in court. The apex court said this while giving reasons on the dismissal of Abubakar’s appeal against judgments of the lower courts on the presidential election petitions filed by the former vice president. The court also ruled that President Muhammadu Buhari was “eminently qualified” to contest the 2019 presidential election. Justice John Okoro, who read the submissions of the chief justice of Nigeria, held that the failure of the appellants to call credible witnesses was fatal to their case as they presented only five witnesses including a star witness who relied on hearsay evidence. He added that the appellants failed to prove issues of over-voting when it could not produce authentic voters register to validate its claim. Justice Okoro added that the unanimous decision of the court delivered on 30 October 2019 was in total agreement with the verdict of the lower court which upheld and affirmed the election of Buhari. Gov Ganduje Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State also grabbed the spot light. A two time deputy governor between 1999 and 2003 and 2011 to 2015, he was allegedly seen in a scandalous videos portraying him pocketing wards of Dollars. But a Federal High Court sitting in Kano dismissed a suit seeking an order compelling the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for allegedly receiving bribe from a contractor. The Judge dismissed the case for lack of evidence on the grounds that the evidence before the court has not shown that the EFCC has the record of the forensic analysis of the bribery video allegations. Justice Egwuatu added that the evidence must be cogent and verifiable. “The provisions of Freedom of Information Act 2011, required that information requested must be a public record and in the custody of the instruction of the organization so requested from. “The report ought to be given to the Kano state House of Assembly ad-hoc committee set up to investigate the matter, Egwuatu said. A Kano based lawyer, Bulama Bukarti had approached the court seeking an order to the EFCC to provide a report of its forensic investigation analysis of the said video allegedly showing Ganduje receiving bribe from an unknown contractor. Leah Sharibu The only Christian girl among the Dapchi schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram, in March 2018 could have been freed along with her schoolmates but refused to renounce her faith, according to her mother. Leah Sharibu refused to accept Islam, resisting the entreaties of her classmates to pretend to do so. A faction of Boko Haram kidnapped 110 girls and one boy from the girls’ school in Dapchi, a town in north-east Nigeria and released most of them a month later, after what the government described as “back-channel” negotiations. The Presidency has dismissed speculation that Leah Sharibu, is dead. It said Miss Sharibu was alive, while the Federal Government continue to negotiate her release from the terrorist group. The Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said this in a statement he issued in Abuja, recently. Shehu assured Nigerians that the government would not give up on Sharibu, a Christian, who was denied freedom by the terrorist group because of her faith. Wike And Dickson The battle between the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike and his Bayelsan counterpart, Seriake Dickson had set the political stage on fire.  Beyond the Soku oil well that was a legal tussle in both states,  both governors had a running political rivalry which came to the fore after Wike accused Dickson of visiting Rivers State without informing him. While Dickson replied, Wike took the clash a notch higher by accusing his colleague, who happens to be from same party as him,  PDP,  of planning to defect to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Bello And Lyon Governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello retained his governorship mandate after the November 16 election in the state.  He defeated the PDP candidate, Engr Musa Wada to secure a second term. In Bayelsa State where a governorship election held same day,  the candidate of the ruling PDP,  Sen Douye Diri lost to the main opposition candidate, David Lyon of the APC. PDP And House Minority Leadership The leadership tussle for the minority of the House of Representatives was intense. The situation which led to the suspension of the recognised minority leader by the House, Hon Ndudi Elumelu by the PDP national leadership, saw some PDP members in the House flaunt a party directive to vote for Hon Kingsley Chinda as the leader of the minority in the lower chamber. Besides Chinda the PDP had nominated Chukwuka Onyema as Deputy Minority Leader, Yakubu Barde as Minority Whip and Muraina Ajibola as Deputy Minority Whip. However some PDP Rep members in cohorts with other opposition lawmakers, revolted against the party’s choice and chose Hon Ndudi Elumelu as the minority leader. Other members in Elumelu’s team are Wole Oke, Lynda Ikpeazu, Anayo Edwin, Gideon Gwadi, Toby Okechukwu and Adekoya Abdul-Majid. The party leadership was aghast and suspended Elumelu and his team after they failed to appear before the party to answer for their act of indiscipline. The party setup a committee headed by former Senate President Adolphus Wabara to investigate how the party members voted during the National Assembly leadership election. The PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) which had waded into the matter, setup its Committee, including, former senate presidents Iyorcha Ayu, Adolphus Wabara, David Mark, and former deputy House speaker, Hon Austin Opara to look into the matter. The committee led by Senator Ayu got to work. The committee was given one week to file its report but it exceeded it. Weeks after, Hon Opara resigned from the committee, which was followed by an allegation by Wike that the committee is corrupt. From there on, the intrigues over the matter escalated. The BoT chairman Senator Walid Jibrin and Senator Wabara disagreed openly over the submission report to the NWC.