CHIBUZO UKAIBE looks at the tenure of the current leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under the national chairmanship of Prince Uche Secondus, two years on. The current leadership of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) emerged on the back of a crisis that almost crippled the party after the 2015 general elections. After a long drawn legal cum political crisis between the warring camps led by Senator Ahmed Markafi and the Senator Ali Modu-Sheriff, respectively in 2017, the party held its national convention on December 10, which saw Prince Uche Secondus emerge the national chairman of the PDP alongside his team. At this point the party was terribly divided. What’s worse, the lengthy intense situation had caused the party lots of goodwill among Nigerians. PDP has been too engrossed in its self inflicted crisis and failed to play its role as the leading opposition party in the country. And for a party seeking to return to power by the next general election, it seemed like PDP hadn’t learnt any lessons, especially as regards adherence to how its leaders emerged. However on assumption of office, the first task was obvious. Secondus and his team set out on a reconciliation mission having won the chairmanship of the party after a heated campaign. Ahead of the convention, there was a raging campaign for the South West to produce the chairman of the PDP because the zone hasn’t done so since the inception of the party in 1999. As such, the likes of former deputy national chairman, Chief Bode George; former minister of Education, Prof Tunde Adeniran; former Lagos State governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje, among others contested for the seat. Secondus was not from the zone but he enjoyed the backing of the governors, especially Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, where he hails from. His emergence as national chairman however, attracted protest from most of the other contestants. Mindful of the impact of such protests, he embarked on reconciliation process which saw him reach out to all the aggrieved contestants. While he was able to appease most of them, Prof Adeniran was inconsolable and left the party alongside former minister of information and a founding member of PDP, Prof Jerry Gana. With the reconciliation process over, the realities ahead of PDP’s quest to return to power came into focus. Besides galvanizing the party members, Secondus and his team needed to garner an aggregate mass to ensure the party stood a chance ahead of 2019. Critical to this move was to ensure that its former members under the aegis of nPDP who defected to the APC In 2014 return to the fold. Interestingly, nPDP bloc, having strategically taken control of the National Assembly leadership, were locked in a grueling battle with the other blocs that made up the APC at the time. As the scheming for 2019 became more clear, the nPDP bloc returned en masse to the PDP into the waiting arms of Secondus-led leadership. Those who returned included former Vice President Atiku, immediate past Senate President, Bukola Saraki, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. Governors who returned included Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto, Abdulfatai Ahmed of Kwara, Samuel Ortom of Benue. State lawmakers also defected along side their governors. Among federal lawmakers who returned to PDP are Sen Musa Kwankwaso and Sen Dino Melaye. But while PDP gained members, former Kano State governor, Ibrahim Shekarau also dumped the PDP and returned to APC. With the defection concluded. All was set for the presidential primaries which held on December 6, 2018. Aspirants in the race included, Atiku; Kwankwaso; Tambuwal; former Senate President, David Mark; former Plateau Governor, Jonah Jang; former Sokoto Governor, Attahiru Bafarawa; among others. The presidential primary which was won by Atiku was touted as one of its best since the party’s formation in 1998. While the campaigns for the primaries was on, the party was striking an alliance with some of its mushroom opposition parties which later metamorphosed into Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) ahead of the polls. Anticipating a tough contest, the party, after Atiku’s emergence and the unveiling of his running mate, former Anambra State Governor, Peter Obi, started its campaigns, touring every state in the country, except Abuja. The much anticipated presidential election held on 23 February. Days after sorting out the results, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  declared President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC), winner of the election with 15,191,847 votes. Atiku came second with 11,262,978 votes. Expectedly PDP and Atiku rejected the outcome of the polls, with the former Vice President declaring it a sham and travesty. He and the PDP filed petitions at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. Among other things Atiku and PDP questioned the result based on its claims of an INEC server, Buhari’s academic eligibility and irregularities during the polls. On September 11, 2019, the Justice Mohammed Garba-led presidential election petitions tribunal affirmed President Buhari’s victory at the polls and ruled that he was “eminently qualified to contest the 2019 election,” just as it dismissed other issues raised by Atiku and PDP. Undeterred, PDP and Atiku filed 66 grounds of appeal before the Supreme Court as he challenged the judgment of the tribunal. The Supreme Court also threw out their petitions. In a unanimous ruling on October 30, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad said the panel had come to the conclusion that the appeal lacked merit. “Having gone through the briefs for over two weeks we have come to the conclusion that this appeal lacks merit. This appeal is hereby dismissed. Reason will be given at a date to be communicated to parties”, the CJN declared. On November 15, the Supreme Court gave its reasons for the judgement. His hopes dashed after the Supreme Court judgment, Atiku blamed what he called an “overreaching and dictatorial cabal” whom he claimed sabotaged the judiciary. But it was not all gloom for the party electorally. During the governorship election, the party won some states, no thanks to internal crisis within the APC. The party won Bauchi, Imo, Zamfara, Oyo States. The wins saw the number of PDP controlled states rise from 11 to 15. With all 109 seats in the chamber now occupied, APC has won 64 seats while the main opposition PDP won 44 seats. The Young Progressive Party (YPP) is the only other party outside of the two dominant ones inaugurated to the 9th Senate with only one seat. In the House of Representatives, APC got 217 while the PDP 115 other parties got 19 seats. While the legal tussle lasted over the outcome of the presidential election, the intrigues within PDP over how the leadership of the National Assembly will emerge began to dominate the consciousness of the party and its faithful. Even though they were members of the APC, the PDP leadership directed its members to support Senator Ali Ndume and Hon Umar Bago for the Senate Presidency and speakership of the House of Representatives, respectively. The APC leadership had selected Senator Ahmed Lawan and Hon Femi Gbajabiamila for the positions. On election day, Senator Lawan and Hon Gbajabiamila received overwhelming votes from lawmakers, signifying that PDP members in both chambers flaunted their party’s directive. Smarting from the outcome of the National Assembly leadership experience, PDP leadership mandated its members to support Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe for Senate minority leadership and Hon Kingsley Chinda as leader of the minority in the House of Representatives. Besides Chinda, the PDP had nominated Chukwuka Onyema as Deputy Minority Leader, Yakubu Barde as Minority Whip and Muraina Ajibola as Deputy Minority Whip. While Abaribe and his team enjoyed smooth sail in the Senate, Chinda and his team suffered a defeat as some PDP lawmakers in cohorts with other opposition lawmakers, revolted against the party’s choice and chose Hon Ndudi Elumelu as the minority leader. Other members in Elumelu’s team are Wole Oke, Lynda Ikpeazu, Anayo Edwin, Gideon Gwadi, Toby Okechukwu and Adekoya Abdul-Majid. Chinda enjoyed the backing of the Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike. It would seem like the party leadership was more worried than embarrassed by the realisation that its lawmakers have on two occasions disobeyed its directives. The Secondus-led PDP wasted no time in suspending Elumelu and his team after they failed to appear before the party to answer for their act of indiscipline. The party setup a committee headed by former Senate President Adolphus Wabara to investigate how the party members voted during the National Assembly leadership election. The PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) which had waded into the matter, setup its Committee, including, former senate presidents Iyorcha Ayu, Adolphus Wabara, David Mark, and former deputy House speaker, Hon Austin Opara to look into the matter. The committee led by Senator Ayu got to work. The committee was given one week to file its report but it exceeded it. Weeks after, Hon Opara resigned from the committee, which was followed by an allegation by Wike that the committee is corrupt. From there on, the intrigues over the matter escalated. While the BoT chairman Senator Walid Jibrin and Senator Wabara disagreed openly over the submission report to the NWC, Wike openly congratulated President Buhari on his electoral victory at the court. Some PDP governors however visited Wike to plead with him not to abandon the party over the matter. While the matter raged, the schemings within the party ahead of the November 16 governorship elections in Kogi, Bayelsa States raged. As the aspirants bought tickets for both states, clash of the titans became inevitable. In Kogi State, the tussle was within the political dynasty of former governor, Ibrahim Idris whose son, Abubakar was also contesting. In Bayelsa State however, the issues were more complicated more so because the party was hoping to retain control of the state. The tussle was however between the Governor, Seriake Dickson backed by his restoration team as against former managing director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Timi Alaibe, who enjoyed the backing of loyalists of former President Goodluck Jonathan and foundational members of the PDP in the state. The primaries held and the internal crisis began. In Kogi Musa Wada emerged candidate while Senator Douye Diri was declared PDP flagbearer In Bayelsa. Their emergence were rejected by leading candidates. In Kogi, Abubakar, son of the former governor, threatened legal action against Wada’s choice. In Bayelsa, Alaibe actual went to court, asking to be declared the party’s candidate. Displeased, former President Goodluck Jonathan distanced himself from events in the party in the state. Days to the party’s mage rally, a delegation of governors visited Jonathan’s Abuja residence to beg him not to abandon the party as well as seek his support. The legal action and threat mattered less as the APC won both states. But the impact was felt more in Bayelsa as the party lost an oil-rich state which it had controlled since 1999. Although the party had gone to court to challenge the outcome of both polls, it remains to be seen whether the frictions arising from the primaries have been resolved. The party however had some dramatic electoral wins and losses in the National Assembly after judgements petition tribunals, prominent among them were the return of Senator Olubunmi Olujimi and the sacking of Senator Dino Melaye after a suspense-filled  round of elections. In all, PDP had its highs and lows under the leadership of Secondus. But some analysts believe that it was distracted by the quest to upturn the outcome of the election to robustly play its role as the leading opposition party. Others believe that the party needs to step up its capacity beyond sampling the number of states it currently has, if it intends to remain the rallying point of the opposition in the years leading to the next general election.