In its renewed drive to boost the production and processing of tomato in the country, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has empowered 140,848 farmers from various tomato farmers’ associations in 25 states of the federation. The intervention by the apex bank is being financed under the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP) where the farmers would be linked to proximal processors where applicable, or financed to produce fresh fruits for direct consumption, which constitutes the largest use of tomato in Nigeria. CBN governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, made the disclosure yesterday during the groundbreaking ceremony of Tomato Jos Processing Plant in Kaduna State. He said that the bank’s efforts so far had begun to yield results with the mobilisation and validation of about 140,848 farmers from various tomato farmers’ associations across 25 states in Nigeria. Emefiele commended the management of the firm for performing creditably by kicking off the processing plant with the potential of creating jobs for hundreds of Nigerians in Kaduna State. “It is my sincere hope that the management of this company will remain focused and not be compromised so as to ensure the sustainability of the project,” he added. Emefiele said that his presence at the event was a demonstration of the CBN’s preparedness to partner with the private sector to facilitate the development of Nigeria’s agricultural sector through various programmes and schemes such as Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme (CACS), Anchor Borrowers’ Programme (ABP), Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMEDF), and Agri-business/Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS). Nigeria is rated as having the largest area of fresh tomato cultivation in Africa with an annual production of 1.701 million tonnes and a consumption rate of 2.93 million tonnes. This leaves an annual supply shortfall of more than 1.2 million tonnes valued at about $2.5 billion, which is met through importation and smuggling. Apart from the low quantum of production per hectare, the quality of the available tomato varieties is not viable for commercial processing as they have very low Brix (solid content) of less than 2.5 as against a Brix content of between 4.7 to 5.5 required to produce high quality Hot Break (HB) and Cold Break (CB) tomato paste. The central bank therefore introduced the commodity champion model in the first quarter of 2019 to stimulate the production of tomato and strengthen the end-to-end linkages in the value chain from input supplies to the final consumer. The strategy adopted is largely hinged on the twin approaches of out-grower contractual arrangement in the short to medium-term, and backward integration in the medium to long-term. The company’s managing director, Mira Mehta, said that the plant would contribute between $15 million and $20 million to the Nigerian economy annually when the factory starts production at full capacity. Mehta, who applauded the CBN governor for his unwavering support in capacity building for agricultural sector, said that the vision of Tomato Jos is “local production for local consumption.” He revealed that over N1.5 billion had been invested in the Tomato Jos farms so far, making it the largest tomato farm business investment in the state. According to her, another N7 billion would be invested over the next five years to scale up its fully integrated business. Mehta added that the company currently has 2,500 people mainly sourced from the surrounding communities, adding that once the processing plant was completed, more than 5,000 residents would be employed. Tomato Jos has a production capacity of 22 metric tonnes per hectare Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State said that the state was well endowed with farming potential, adding that, “we are friendly to those who create jobs and pay taxes.” The governor praised the courage and business skills of Mehta for choosing Kaduna as the place to site her factory despite the odds. He also appreciated the past and current ambassadors of the United States for their support for the state. He said that “without the CBN and Emefiele, the agricultural revolution in Nigeria would not have been possible. “He is a developmental promoter per excellence. We are very grateful for your support to Kaduna State; for your support to agriculture and your contributions in reviving many sectors of our economy,” the governor said