There is ongoing political realignment in states following the supreme court judgments. In some states, underground lobbying is on going while others are calculating who to follow ahead of the 2023 general elections. After the supreme court Judgment,  tension hitherto within the  polity in Niger is dousing while indications are  pointing to more defections to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Niger State. The governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, has already extended olive branch to members of opposition People Democratic Party (PDP) when he said after the supreme court Judgement that saw him victorious over PDP candidate, Umar Nasko  , that his government  was all inclusive devoid of party differences. Already speculations are that  the government was not ready to press further on corruption cases against the key members of  PDP  even as some key players in the past  PDP government are likely to vie for governorship under A PC. Notable among those being mentioned for the governorship ticket is Prof Mohammed Yahaya  Kuta,who  was the secretary to the government of the immediate past governor, Muazu Babangida Aliyu. In Oyo, barely one year after the last general election and the supreme court judgment which affirmed the election of Engineer Seyi Makinde as Oyo State governor, members of the state chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), are working assiduously to make the state a one party state based on the achievements of the governor. Despite some challenges the party faced prior to the last general election, it recorded landslide victories in the gubernatorial and the state house of assembly elections with 26 out of the 32 state lawmakers and sizeable numbers of national assembly members. With four years guaranteed for the governor and the state house of assembly lawmakers, all efforts are geared towards the rebranding and rejuvenation of the party structure across the 33 local governments in the state ahead of the expected local government elections. The party had therefore swung into action by wooing members of the opposition parties particularly APC, ADC, ZLP and others into its fold. The efforts yielded results with the defection of hundreds of ADC and National Rescue Movements (NRM) members into PDP at the party’s local government chapter’s meeting held at Idi-Ayunre in Ibadan. While speaking at the Oluyole local government office of the party, the party’s publicity secretary, Akeem Olatunji, said PDP was approaching the forthcoming local government elections with a new strategy, noting that the party was in the process of building on the achievements recorded during the 2019 elections. In Rivers State, nothing seems to have changed after the supreme court affirmed the victory of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, in the March 9, 2019 election in the state. The situation is not unconnected to the near absence of structures of the leading opposition political party in the state, the All Progressives Congress (APC). The crisis in the APC, which gave way for a supreme court judgement that barred the party from participating in the 2019 general elections, is far from being over. Only recently, a third faction emerged from the APC, appealing to the national leadership of the party, to call the minister of transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, and Senator Magnus Ngei Abe, who are leaders of the two main factions, to order. On his part, Wike had told all the ethnic nationalities in the state, to struggle to produce his successor come 2023, saying that since he struggled to get the governorship seat, he would not promise to give the position of the next governor of the state to any ethnic nationality. From the look of things, there may not be alignment and realignment for now, as politicians who are aggrieved in both APC and the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP), await the end-result of the crisis in the APC.