In this piece, DANJUMA JOSEPH takes a look at the steps put in place by Nasarawa and Benue State governments to prevent farmers/herders clashes in the two states. As part of the peace building process, Governor of Nasarawa State, Engineer Abdullahi Sule and his Benue State counterpart, Dr. Samuel Ortom, held a joint security meeting to review the security situation between the two states with a view to finding enduring solutions, as well as sustaining the already existing peace between the two neighboring states. This is not the first time the two states are meeting to fastrack the peace building process in order to ensure lasting peace between farmers and herders along the borders. The peace process was initiated precisely in 2010 between the two former governors, the late Aliyu Akwe Doma (Nasarawa) and Gabriel Suswam (Benue), now a serving Senator. When Umaru Tanko Al-Makura took over power in Nasarawa State in 2011, the process went ahead with the initial open peace meeting held at Yalwata primary school, where the victims of the crisis were taking refuge. Unfortunately, Fulani leaders backed out of that peace meeting, forcing Al-Makura and Suswam, to speak to only Tiv community leaders. The meeting between the two states for the purpose of seeking peace and a lasting solution to the incessant hostilities began between the late Doma and Suswam, resulting in the setting up of a committee of 10 members, five each from the two states to investigate the remote causes of the crisis and recommend lasting solutions. Sadly, 10 years down the line, the findings of the 10-man committee set up by the two states were not made public. The peace initiative also took the then governor of Nasarawa State, now Senator Al-Makura and his Benue State counterpart, Samuel Otorm to Agatu local government for an on the spot visit, where they jointly addressed the victims of the farmers/herders clash. Ortom and Al-Makura in their separate remarks stressed the need for all parties to the crisis to sheath their swords and embrace peace. Al-Makura said the visit to Agatuland was a result of painstaking efforts by both Benue and Nasarawa state government aimed at restoring lasting peace between farmers and herdsmen in the area. He maintained that the two state governments would not relent on efforts at brokering peace between the warring parties. Ortom, on his part noted that as brothers, farmers and herdsmen were bound to have differences and disagreements but reconciliation was paramount. He said no meaningful development could be achieved in an atmosphere of rancour and violence. The Agatu Representatives in their various speeches spoke on what they had gone through over time emphasizing that they wanted ranches to stop the free grazing of livestock which was the root of the problem. The Fulani Representative asked for forgiveness on behalf of the Fulani Community and spoke on some solutions such as the registration of Fulani in the area, use of vigilante groups and a total ban of arms within the area. Both communities lauded the governors of both states for their efforts at ensuring a lasting peace in the area, as well as expressed their appreciation for the historic visit by both Governors to the area. When Governor Abdullahi Sule, took over last year, he visited his Benue State counterpart, Ortom, at the Benue Peoples House, Makurdi, in a move to promote peaceful co-existence among people of the two states. The Governors acknowledged the long time ties between Benue and Nasarawa, which dates back to the days of Benue-Plateau State, stressing that people of the  two states have no justification to engage in conflicts. Ortom took advantage of the visit to describe his Nasarawa State counterpart as a man of peace as demonstrated by his visit and words, pointing out that the meeting would encourage people of both states to live in harmony. He stated that boundary demarcation was for administrative convenience and not meant to divide people or ignite crisis. Governor Ortom also emphasized the need for the people of both states to support security agencies to end crime, particularly in border communities. He commended Operation Whirl Stroke and other security operatives for their commitment to ensuring that peace and security return to the affected areas. Meanwhile, Governor Abdullahi Sule, had earlier acknowledged the large population of Tiv, Idoma and other ethnic groups in Nasarawa State and stressed the importance of peace and security between Benue and his state, to pave way for speedy industrial development. He said his visit was to collaborate with Ortom to chart a new course for greater economic development, adding that meaningful development would only take place in an atmosphere deviod of crisis. The meeting was also attended by Deputy Governors of the two states, Senators, traditional rulers and other top government officials. As a follow-up to the steps taken so far for a lasting peace in the two states, Ortom later visited Sule, at Government House, Lafia on Sunday, 12th January, 2020. A joint security meeting was later held, at the conference Hall of Government House, Lafia. It had in attendance security agencies, local government chairmen, traditional rulers, leaders of Tiv ethnic group and Fulani herdsmen. Two major issues were reviewed during the meeting, namely the planned withdrawal of the members of the Operation Whirl Stroke; the security outfit put in place by the Federal Government at the height of the security challenges across Nasarawa, Benue and Taraba states, as well as the Anti-Open Grazing Law enacted in Benue State in July 2017. In an opening remark, Engineer Sule recalled similar meeting that took place last year in Makurdi, with both governors in attendance, where issues of common interest, particularly security, peace, law and order, especially along border communities, were discussed. Sule noted that since the meeting in July, there has been no major security breach between the two states, with farmers able to go back and harvest their crops which was not possible a year or two ago. He pointed out that the recent meeting will provide an avenue for the leaders of both states to interact, understand each other and be able to proffer the way forward. On the issue of the withdrawal of members of the military outfit, the Operation Whirl Stroke, the governor said Nasarawa State has written to the Chief of Army Staff to appeal against the withdrawal of the security outfit, which he said, has contributed immensely in ensuring the return of peace across the state. Engineer Sule equally acknowledged that the anti-open grazing law is operational in Benue State, but that he has always emphasized on Fulani herdsmen that because open grazing is allowed in Nasarawa, it doesn’t make the state lawless. “We are open to making adjustment in order to accommodate everybody and in order to ensure we live in peace. “There is anti-grazing law in Benue and I have always emphasized to my brothers, the Fulani. I have also emphasized that just because open grazing is allowed in Nasarawa, it doesn’t make Nasarawa so lawless. That we should do the open grazing also in line with our law. “We cannot allow people to run into other people’s farms and create hardships for the farmers in the name of open grazing,” he said. He expressed appreciation that Benue State has agreed to embrace the Federal Government’s National Livestock Transformation Programme (NLTP). On his part, Benue State Governor, Ortom, commended Engineer Sule for initiating the peace meetings, describing his Nasarawa counterpart as committed and determined to ensuring lasting peace between the two states. Governor Ortom said the people of Benue will remain committed to the peace that is now existing between the two states. “For us in Benue State, we will remain committed to the peace that is existing and anything that will subtract to the peace that we are having, we are going to work against it. Anything that will add value to the peace initiative, we are fully in support,” Ortom said. On the call by the Emir of Lafia, HRH Justice Sidi Bage (rtd) for a review of the anti-open grazing law in Benue State, particularly now that peace has returned, Governor Ortom urged members of the Miyetti Allah to bring forward suggestions to cushion the effect of the law, promising to present such before the Benue State legislature to see how it can be amended. Governor Ortom described the NLTP as a solution to the problems associated with open grazing and that Benue is willing to embrace the programme. “As a conflict manager, I have always known that win-win remains the best option to solving problems, it’s not really winner takes it all. “Herdsmen should come up with suggestions that can provide succour for their people, suggest it to me and we will take it back to the House of assembly and see how it can be amended,” Ortom stated.