Rerun elections in 28 constituencies will be conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in 11 states of the federation today. INEC national chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said that most of the elections were ordered by the courts. Yakubu made the disclosure during the swearing-in of two resident electoral commissioners (RECs) in Abuja. The RECs are Dr Alalibo Sinikiem Johnson from Bayelsa State and Umar Mukhtar Gajiram from Borno State, who have been posted to Cross Rivers and Taraba States respectively, Yakubu immediately gave then marching orders preside over today’s elections in their states. LEADERSHIP Weekend discovered that all the polls holding today were for legislative seats such as the Senate, House of Representatives and states’ Houses of Assembly. The various election petitions tribunals which handled grievances arising from the 2019 general elections received 807 post-election cases, of which 582 were dismissed and 183 withdrawn by the petitioners. The remaining 42 cases, according to INEC, 30 were decided for rerun while the court ordered that 12 should be given certificates of return. Of the 30 rerun cases, two are Kogi West Senatorial District supplementary rerun election and Ajaokuta federal constituency, which were conducted on November 30, 2019 “There are, so far, 30 such court-ordered rerun and supplementary rerun elections. Two of these, namely, the rerun elections for the Ajaokuta federal constituency and the supplementary rerun election for the Kogi West Senatorial District, were conducted on November 30, 2019. “Consequently, there are 28 court-ordered elections still outstanding, which are distributed across 11 states of the federation. The breakdown comprises one senatorial district out of 109; 12 federal constituencies out of 360 and 15 state assembly constituencies out of 991,” Yakubu had said. For today’s elections, the INEC chairman said that six would involve entire constituencies while 22 elections will be held only in some polling units. “In all the constituencies, the elections will be contested by the same political parties and candidates that participated in the 2019 general elections except where the elections were nullified on grounds of candidate disqualification. “The two affected constituencies are Gamawa federal constituency in Bauchi State and Agwara State constituency in Niger State where elections will be held without the candidates and parties that were declared winners in the general elections. “There will be no substitution of candidates as these are not bye-elections but court-ordered rerun elections and the period for nomination of candidates had lapsed since the end of 2018 in preparation for the 2019 general elections,” Yakubu added. Ahead of the elections, the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has ordered security beef up in the affected states. The force public relations officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, disclosed this in a statement he issued in Abuja, yesterday. Mba said that the IGP had ordered the commissioners of police (CPs) in the affected states to ensure comprehensive security arrangement for INEC offices and facilities. He explained that the directive was to ensure hitch-free elections and a level playing ground for all the candidates and parties. The police spokesman named the states participating in the elections as Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Benue, Cross River, Imo, Kaduna, Kano, Niger, Ogun, and Sokoto. He said that the IG had ordered police personnel deployed for the elections to abide by rules guiding their conduct on election duty. Mba promised that the officers would be professional and apolitical in the discharge of their duties and enjoined politicians, candidates and the electorate to obey the laws of the land during the elections.