The Supreme Court has affirmed Ahmadu Fintri and Samuel Ortom of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as the duly elected governors of Adamawa and Benue states, respectively. Affirming the election of Samuel Ortom of Benue state, Justice Sylvester Ngwuta, dismissed the appeal instituted by the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Emmanuel Jime. Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour, who led panel maintained that it found no reason to disturb the concurrent decisions of both the tribunal and the Court of Appeal that returned Ortom as the a winner of the gubernatorial contest that held on March 9, 2019. “I have agreed with the submissions of the respondents that the concurrent judgments of the Tribunal and Court of Appeal should not be disturbed,” Justice Ngwuta held. On the Adamawa governorship appeal, Justice Mohammad Dattijo, who read the judgement held that the APC and its candidate, Jibrilla Bindow, failed to prove their allegation that Fintri emerged through over-voting. The seven-man panel of justices held that APC and Bindow did not prove that number of votes from the disputed 385 polling units, exceeded the total number of voters that were accredited with both the Smart Card Reader, the Voters Register and the Form EC8A. Jime and Bindow had dragged their respective state governors before the court to challenge the outcome of the Match 9, 2019 election. Both Jime and Bindow, who contested the election on the platform of APC lost as incumbent governor. Not satisfied with the outcome of the elections, they approached the court to set aside the victory of Governor Orton and Governor Fintiri. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday commended the Supreme Court for upholding the elections of Governors Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, Samuel Ortom of Benue and Ahmed Fintiri of Adamawa State. The party maintained that its governors won the elections in their respective states and any disposition to the contrary would have further diminished the hard earned image of the highest court of the land as Nigerians know that the PDP won in those states. PDP, in a statement by its national publicity secretary Kola Ologbondiyan, however insisted that the judgment on the four states would not in any way sway it to abandon or even diminish the nationwide agitation for a judicial review and reversal of the miscarriage of justice by the Court in its judgment on Imo state governorship election. The party noted that by upholding the Sokoto, Bauchi, Benue and Adamawa elections, the Supreme Court has shown that it can still be trusted to assert its independence and can further redeem its image by immediately reversing its defective and widely condemned judgment on Imo state.