The director general of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency, (NiMet) said the a new National Meteorological Training Institute in Katsina, has been established where training of Nigerians in Meteorology at Ordinary National Diploma, OND and Higher National Diploma, HND would be offered. Speaking at a press briefing on the forthcoming 2020 seasonal rainfall prediction, yesterday, the director general, Professor Sani Abubakar Mashi, said “in July 2017, the Nigerian Meteorological Agency acquired the ISO 9001:2015 for Aeronautical Meteorological Services delivery thereby becoming the first meteorological organization in Africa to achieve this feat. “In August 2019, we also acquired the ISO 29990:2010 for training services at the Regional Training Centre, Lagos, and the first again in Africa. On this, NiMet’s Meteorological Institution is the only Institution in Africa and one of the seven in the world to have achieved this ISO certification. “In addition to the WMO Regional Training Centre, NiMet is operating, we have also established a new National Meteorological Training Institute in Katsina, where we shall be training Nigerians in Meteorology at OND and HND levels.” Speaking further on some of its activities, the DG said “it is no longer news that due to our statutory mandate, we are at the vanguard of all meteorological/climatological issues as far as Nigeria is concern – a role we have demonstrated capacity in handling in consonant with the requirements of the World Meteorological Organisation, WMO. “When I took over the reins of leadership of this great agency, I discovered that among other personnel challenges, the Agency fell short of the requirement of WMO as regards the number of meteorological stations. Of course, this was so because of the paucity of funds despite the federal government continuous support of the agency, for which we remain grateful. To stem this tide, we had to devise and implement a solution; we decided to partner with tertiary institutions in the country. This synergy, by way of a Memorandum of Understanding, birthed upgrades and in some instances, outright installation of new meteorological equipment. ” Due largely to these interventions and many other international collaborations, we have witnessed an increase from 54 to over 157 meteorological stations, and this is still ongoing in all the nooks and cronies of the country. Though we are yet to attain the WMO standard of establishing one weather station per every 100 kilometres, you would agree with me that the ‘’ journey of a thousand miles begins with a step’’ and NiMet over the years has been embarking on giant leaps to achieve this.” On the upcoming Seasonal Rainfall Prediction, the DG said “in continuation with our tradition of always presenting the Seasonal Rainfall Prediction during the first quarter of the year in order to help policy makers and farmers plan ahead, we wish to announce that this year’s SRP would be unveiled to the general public on Tuesday, the 21st of January, 2020 “The 2020 Rainfall Prediction will highlight vital information that may affect socio-economic activities in the air, land and water transportation,  agriculture, water resources, disaster management and mitigation, tourism,  sports, health, building and construction, energy sectors etc in the course  of the year. Forecast information that have been provided include: the  onset and cessation dates of the 2020 rainy season; the down scaled  total amount of rainfall expected in all the 774 Local Government  Areas of the country; temperature forecast as well as malaria and  meningitis forecast. “The socio-economic implications of the expected rainfall and temperature patterns for major sectors of the economy will also be discussed during the event.” 