As a follow up to the ongoing investigation of extortion against Sen Shehu Sani, opatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), stormed his Abuja house in search for evidence. Reports across online had stated that the officials arrived at the residence located in Wuse 2, Abuja, around 3:30pm. However, there was no official confirmation from the EFCC or its spokesperson. Recall that the EFCC had said it has arrested Sen Shehu Sani, following his alleged involvement in extortion, name dropping and financial crimes. EFCC source, who confirmed the arrest, said the ASD Motors boss, Alhaji Sani Dauda, had complained against the alleged activities of the senator. He was said to have collected $10,000 from ASD Motors on the grounds that he is very close to the EFCC boss. He was subsequently arrested and granted administrative bail while the said $10,000 was recovered from him. He was asked to report but made himself incommunicado. The source also noted that Sani is expected to spend the New Year in EFCC’s custody as the complainant is expected to take up issues with him on Thursday, January 2, 2020 According to the source, “the EFCC operators were quizzing him over the allegations of scamming some people and allegedly dropping the name of the EFCC boss before suspects who have cases with the commission. “The senator was said to have told the complainant that he would resolve his case with the EFCC. ” He was said to have told the complainant that he discussed with the investigators who claimed that only the EFCC boss could resolve the matter. “He added that the senator told him that he is close to Magu and allegedly demanded $20,000 to pass to Magu in order to resolve the issue. But the complainant stated that he could only provide $10,000 and thereafter proceeded to write a cheque covering the amount. “The cheque was allegedly presented to Bureau De Change operator who reportedly gave the $10,000 equivalent to the senator – to settle the matter with the EFCC.”