CHIBUZO UKAIBE in this report writes on the intrigues arising from the Supreme Court verdict on the governorship election in Imo State. Although the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lost the 2019 presidential poll, it prided on its ability to win some states from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). For the opposition party,  it was no little feat. After the governorship elections, PDP won Adamawa, Bauchi,  Zamfara, Oyo and Imo States from the All Progressives Congress (APC), swelling the number of states under it’s control. It however lost Kwara State. Even though Governors Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Samuel Ortom (Benue) left the APC to join the PDP before the polls, it still wasn’t going to be easy retaining those states ahead of the election, analysts opined. But they were able to secure the states, in very tough elections. However, just when the party thought it had those states firmly secured, the judgement from apex courts seems to proving them wrong. The Supreme Court verdict on the Imo State governorship election last Tuesday, sent shockwaves through the party. A seven-member panel of the apex court sacked the Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP  and declared Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the winner of the March 9 governorship election in the state. The case between Mr Uzodinma and Mr Ihedioha was among six governorship election appeals the apex court had proposed to decide on, but that of Kano and Bauchi states were adjourned to Monday while the date for Bauchi, Benue and Plateau state will be communicated later. In the unanimous judgment of the seven-member panel, read by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, the apex court agreed that results in 388 polling units were unlawfully excluded during the collation of the final governorship election result in Imo State. Justice Kekere-Ekun said with the addition of the results from 388 polling units, Mr Uzodinma polled a majority of the lawful votes and ought to have been declared the winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The judge did not provide the details of the new votes scored by each of the candidates after the addition of the results from the 388 polling units. She voided and set aside the declaration of Mr lhedioha as the winner of the 2019 governorship election in the South-East state. The court then ordered that the certificate of return wrongly or unlawfully issued to Mr lhedioha be immediately withdrawn by INEC and a fresh one issued to Mr Uzodinma as the elected governor of the state. Presidential candidate of PDP in the last election, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar urged PDP and Ihedioha to accept the judgment, “however unexpected and unpalatable it may be.“ He added “The Rule of law must guide our paths even if logic sheds light on a different path.” The PDP in its reaction was hard. The national chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus who held a press conference accused the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Mohammed of conniving with the APC over the judgement  and called for his resignation. He further picked holes in the judgement listing some reasons why it believes the judgement was flawed. But the party was equally worried about the outcome of tomorrow’s verdicts on the other states. Secondus who addressed a press conference at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja, questioned the integrity of Justice  Muhammed asked him to “step down as CJN and chairman of the National Judicial Council” alleging that that “Nigerians have lost confidence in him and a Supreme Court under his leadership.” The party chairman who picked holes in the apex court’s judgement in the sacking of Ihedioha, asked the Supreme Court to review the judgement in Imo State and reverse itself. Secondus said, “We had intelligence before the verdict on the Imo Governorship that the hierarchy of APC had decided that they must use the Supreme Court to capture the states won and controlled by the PDP such as Imo, Sokoto, Bauchi, Adamawa and Benue. “Can the PDP rightly trust the impartiality and independence of the panel headed by Justice Tanko Mohammed, the CJN, to adjudicate on the remaining cases involving the PDP like Kano, Sokoto, Benue, Bauchi, Adamawa, Plateau and others? “Is the same fate awaiting the Governors of these states that are controlled by the PDP and other states like Kano where the PDP clearly won and was robbed? “Should Justice Tanko Mohammed and his colleagues on the Imo Governorship Panel not recuse themselves from the remaining cases involving PDP? “The PDP firmly holds that if the flawed judgment of the Supreme Court on Imo governorship election is allowed to stand, it would be a recipe for anarchy, chaos and constitutional crisis not only in Imo state but in the entire country. “Our party has it in good authority that Justice Tanko and his panel are working on instruction from certain forces in the Presidency to use the Supreme Court to take over states lawfully won by the PDP and award them to the APC. “The PDP therefore advises Justice Tanko not to allow himself to be used to push our nation to the path of anarchy and constitutional crisis as any further attempt to subvert justice in the pending petitions on Sokoto, Bauchi, Benue, Adamawa as well as Kano and Plateau states will be firmly and vehemently resisted.“In order to avoid an imminent breakdown of law and order, the PDP demands that Justice Tanko Mohammed immediately steps down as CJN and chairman of the National Judicial Council as Nigerians have lost confidence in him and a Supreme Court under his leadership. “Justice Tanko must not head the panel to determine the remaining election petitions before the Supreme Court.” “In conclusion, in the light of extraordinary circumstances that vitiates that judgment as a product manipulation and a clear coup d’etat against the will of the people of Imo State, we demand that the decision of the Supreme Court on the Imo Governorship Election be reviewed and reversed in the interest of justice. “Furthermore we demand that Justice Tanko Mohammed, the CJN and his colleagues on the Imo Governorship Panel recuse themselves from the remaining cases involving PDP in the Supreme Court.” Faulting the apex court verdict on Imo State, the PDP national chairman said the judgment which voided the election of Ihedioha said it is “highly irrational, unfounded, a provocative product of executive manipulation and a recipe for crisis, which should not be allowed to stand.” He claimed that the Supreme Court executed a coup against the PDP and the people of Imo state as well as other Nigerians, and such must not be allowed to have a place in Nigeria’s democracy. The party subsequently held an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, which also reflected on the matter. Addressing party members at the meeting, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar decried Nigeria’s current democratic experience. He charged Nigerians to reincarnate the struggle that brought about the democracy of today that “the APC governing party is threatening.” Atiku further said that “our party governed very well from 1999 up to 2015. As true democrat we conceded power to the opposition in the hope that it will further entrench democracy development and unity. But, alas Nigerians have been proved wrong by the governing APC.” Calling on Nigerians to resist threat to democracy, Atiku said, “it has become very necessary for us to mobilise Nigeria to resists the threat to our democracy, unity and development. “Therefore, I will like to propose that a strong committee is setup to review the last elections and recommend to the party the needed reforms and address the challenges in the last election. “But what cannot wait is that we should not take what has been happening in our democratic process from the role of INEC, security agencies and the judiciary for granted. “If we take all these roles for granted, that will be the end of our hard earned struggle including our founding members who are today not alive. What can we say we have done to their struggles as they lay in their graves? “Therefore, as long as we are alive, it is our responsibility to reincarnate the struggle they led to what brought about the democracy of today that the APC governing party is threatening,” he said. The PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) chairman of the party, Sen Walid Jibrin who decried the verdict of the apex court in Imo State, lamented that it is the “saddest moments of our lives not just for PDP.” Referring to a traditional Igbo cap he wore to the meeting, he said “We are ready for the war. Putting the cap on the left which means war. It shows that we are at war.” He added, “I have not cried for a long time but crying won’t  solve our problems. Let’s come together and do the best thing we can do. Lamenting that “Nigeria is getting to an end,” he added, “most of my friends have told me that they are leaving Nigerian because of the way Nigeria is going.” However, in its communique after the meeting, PDP said that the nation has witnessed the destruction of democratic values, ethos, principles and the consistent breach of the 1999 constitution (as amended). Assuring Nigerians that the PDP will protect and defend democracy and its institutions in the country, the party rejected the “destructions of our democratic institution and values especially the independence of the legislature, the politicisation of the judiciary and the compromising of our security and electoral institutions.” The PDP further noted what it called the gross abuse of the rule of law, the muzzling of the civil society and advocates of free speech as well as ordinary Nigerians. The PDP condemned the utter desecration of judicial tenets and values, “climaxing in the national embarrassment of the Supreme Court’s manufacturing of votes and donating same to the APC and its candidate, Hope Uzodimma, thereby robbing the people of Imo state, of the mandate freely given to Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as their governor. “The PDP observes that this calculated injustice perpetuated by the Supreme Court has proven that the judiciary under Justice Tanko Mohammed is no longer the last hope of the common man but rather the LOST HOPE of the common man in Nigeria. “The Supreme Court by its judicial summersault has eroded the faith and confidence, which Nigerians have in participatory election thereby showcasing that there will be no need for election in the future. “The PDP stands with the people of Imo state and Hon. Emeka Ihedioha in all steps being taken to reverse this injustice and reclaim the governorship mandate stolen through the Supreme Court. “The PDP assures Nigerians that, our party, through all available constitutional and legitimate means, including civil disobedience, will insist that this government must respect the rule of law and desist from influencing the judiciary, INEC and security agencies. “The PDP will not allow the judiciary, security agencies and other institutions of governance to become departments of the APC,” the party said. But while the PDP met, the APC national leadership was miffed at the declarations of the PDP. The ruling party was displeased with the opposition platform’s move to put the judiciary on the spot in a way that discredits their credibility. The APC national chairman , Adams Oshiomhole, while refuting the allegations of PDP, alleged that Ihedioha, had failed to meet the constitutional requirement of winning 25 percent of votes in at least two-thirds of the local government areas in the state, saying on that score alone, Mr Ihedioha had lost out. According to him, a consideration of the voided votes of Senator Hope Uzodinma was what put him in a position to be affirmed as the governor of the state. He said that the state returning officer ought not only to be dismissed but to be picked up by security agencies for interrogation while the judges who dispensed justice at the lower tribunals should be made to answer the numerous legitimate questions of Nigerians. “The key issue in the case of APC and Uzodinma is that INEC and the collating officers bluntly refused to collate the votes in part of Hope Uzodinma’s senatorial zone of Orlu, altogether about 388 polling units votes were not collated. Meanwhile, in each of this polling unit, INEC appointed presiding officers who signed those results. “The party agents in these 388 units signed those results. So, the validity of those results was never in dispute. INEC did not have any cause to invalidate them. All that happened was that the collating officers in those units refused to collate the results from 388 units in the governorship election that were in favour of Senator Hope Uzodinma,” he explained. Oshiomhole further said that “it is the height of recklessness for the PDP to be asking for the resignation of the chief justice of Nigeria because it lost an election that the party never won”. While the debate rages over the Imo verdict, the apex court is scheduled to rule on APC’s appeals before them challenging the PDP’s victories in the March 9, 2019, governorship polls in the four states today. Which ever way the verdicts go, pundits believe that the political space will be impacted majorly.