The national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, yesterday broke his silence on the controversy surrounding the establishment of the South Western Nigeria security outfit code-named “Amotekun” by the six governors from the region. Instead of flexing muscles over the matter, Tinubu urged the federal and state governments concerned to dialogue on the issue and resolve their differences for the peace and progress of the country. Tinubu, who issued a statement titled: “The Public Discourse Over Amotekun,” said that “Amotekun” presents a great opportunity for Nigeria in its quest to enthrone true federalism, of which he had been an advocate since 1999. The former Lagos State governor said that “shorn of the overly dramatic language, what lies before us is but a step in the evolution of our federalism. This is an opportunity to more clearly define that federalism.” He explained why he kept a studied silence on the matter till yesterday despite pressure from some quarters and called for a private discussion between the governors of the Southwest and the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Mallam Abubakar Malami, to resolve the misunderstanding over the security outfit. According to him, the foundation of the country had not been put at risk with the Southwest regional security outfit launched by the governors of the zone in a bit to confront the insecurity in their states, saying that there were areas of “Amotekun” operation that should be remedied for effectiveness. Tinubu warned that fabric could be torn by what he called the “dangerous rhetoric of those who should know better. Those claiming that this limited, inoffensive addition to security threatens the Republic have taken themselves upon a madcap excursion. “Those claiming that the federal government seeks to terribly suppress the Southwest have also lost their compass. Those who occupy these two extremes have sunken into the dark recesses of fear and political paranoia that can undo a nation if such sentiments are allowed to gestate,” he said. The APC chieftain, therefore, propounded the way out of the logjam on the security outfit, noting that the issue had dominated recent discourse and media headlines. While distilled the issue to its basics, he noted that it concerns how best state governments can assist with the safety and security of their residents, stressing that “this is a matter of serious concern entitled to sober thought. However, it has been turned into a political tug-of-war. Fierce, often unthinking rhetoric, for and against, has crossed the lips of too many Nigerians. More subjective talking than objective thinking has been the fuel of this outburst. “Question those in favour of ‘Amotekun’. Most have but the vaguest notion about it. They know few details yet vigorously attribute to its opponents the most negative intentions. Ask those who oppose Amotekun. They are equally ignorant of its provisions. They oppose the initiative not on its merits but merely because it was proposed by their political opponents or because they don’t see an avenue for personal gain from it. “While colourful, the rhetoric has been disconcerting. How people have mishandled this matter demonstrates that we still have far to go in perfecting this democracy. Too much energy has been spent distorting this issue instead of seeking a resolution that supports local enhancement of security while keeping the constitution intact. If this becomes the standard for how we handle disagreements then we will obscure Nigeria’s path forward with our own rubbish. “In this matter, I do not see malign intent in the differences of opinion between the Southwest governors as authors of ‘Amotekun’ and the attorney-general as the primary law enforcement officer of the federal government. Shorn of the overly dramatic language, what lies before us is but a step in the evolution of our federalism. This is an opportunity to more clearly define that federalism; but one cannot attain this better, more functional definition through overblown, emotional language. Objectivity and calmness are required. To a significant degree, the enduring quality of our Republic will be established by the sagacity with which we handle disagreements regarding the division of power between federal and state governments. Such disagreements are inevitable. This is not the first. Nor will it be the last. We must devote our energies more toward solving problems rather than amplifying them,” he stated. Tinubu noted that in seeking to fulfil their mandates by helping protect their people, the governors of the Southwest collectively established a programme to buttress existing security mechanisms. In the same way, he said that “seeking to protect the constitution as best he could, the attorney-general offered his opinion on what he believed the governors have sought to do. No one can blame either party for seeking to fulfil what they genuinely see as their public duty.” He said that those who have tried to goad his swift public reaction did so not because they care about ‘Amotekun’ or even the people it intends to help protect, claiming that they did so knowing this had become a delicate and emotional issue for many. Tinubu maintained that “these cynics did so with the adversarial hope that, in haste, I might misspeak or misstep in a manner they could twist to their political advantage. “Such people are possessed of a mercenary aspect that permits them to sacrifice almost anything, even jeopardise the very foundations of our political unity, if they might exact personal gain from the upheaval. In that they know no nobler purpose than their own appetites, we should feel sorry for them. However, we must not allow our sympathies for their barren condition to persuade us that there is worth in their destructive misconduct. They must be left to the consequences of their own devices. “If truly I am a political leader as I am often described, then I have not the luxury of hasty, ill-conceived utterances. There are those who will use inflamed words to spark the passions of others. This may bring transient applause. But when the cheers fade, we shall only have further descended because their words were never inclined toward resolution and long-term improvement but toward short-term popularity and perpetual confrontation. “I believe in this nation and its benign prospects. I dearly love its people, all of them. Over the years of our existence, they have suffered much. Yet they still hold forth with heroic patience and an extraordinary optimism born of strong faith. To these people I owe my best. I shall not treat them cheaply or bandy their emotions like some errant football. The welfare of this good and decent people is my overriding concern,” he declared. He divided the matter into the substantive merits of Amotekun, decision-making and consultative process, and recommendations on the way forward. Tinubu commended in principle the governors for seeking to work together to complement the extant security architecture is, adding that in embracing this concept, they acted in consonance with spirit of their offices for the better interests of their people. Asiwaju Tinubu recalled that as governor of Lagos State, he confronted a burgeoning criminal menace the Neighbourhood Watch. The mission of the Neighbourhood Watch, according to him, was to monitor the wards and neighbourhoods of the state, noting that the measure worked. The former governor said that from the public statements of the initiator, “Amotekun” is meant to be structured along similar lines, adding that “as I understand it, ‘Amotekun’ is to be another set of eyes and ears to assist the police. As such, it is but the second generation of Neighbourhood Watch expanded to a regional scale’’. Conceptually, there is nothing wrong with this. It does not appear to insult the constitution. However, my position regarding ‘Amotekun’ is not blind or uncritical; there are several organisational and functional aspects of the proposal that could cause some problems if left unresolved. “First, the stated mission is information gathering by civilians. Such tasks are always and everywhere best done in low-key fashion. Some aspects of ‘Amotekun’ seem to undermine rather than enhance this function. “Second, equipping Amotekun with showy paraphernalia may cause the public to misconstrue the role of Amotekun, incorrectly believing its mandate is more expansive than it is. This possible disconnect could impede the good aims of the programme,” he said. On the way forward, Tinubu advised the two sides to enter private discussions, adding that “either the governors should seek an official but private meeting with the attorney-general, or the attorney-general can initiate the contact. Since ‘Amotekun’ is their initiative, the governors bear the greater onus in seeking the meeting.” He appealed to well-intentioned Nigerians to shun those who employ heated language to inflame emotions, saying that “it does us no good to rush toward exaggerated statements that suggest calamity of the highest order. Don’t allow yourselves to be fodder for those who seek to divide us.” On his role in the crisis, Tinubu disclosed that he had initiated communication with the chairman of the South West Governors’ Forum, Arakunrin Rotimi Akeredolu, with a view to meeting the governors to explore amicable solutions to the avoidable controversy.  