National President of Institute of Chartered Economists of Nigeria (ICEN), Prof Ejiofor Chinedu has felicitated with President Muhammadu Buhari at new year and urged government to take action against the Institute pending bill. The ICEN boss also noted that there is need to revise the economic thinking in the country to give full value to natural resources, adding that his administration will work to move the institute from theory to practice. “In line with this spirit, the Institute is implementing various new initiatives this year to support its Professional members, students and researchers, including merging with the Nigerian Economics Society to to move the profession from mere journal and research production to practical economics proffering practical solutions to our country’s economic problems. “We will also retain our commitment to solidarity, ensuring that our members that are less resourced can have more opportunities and assistance to develop the skills, the methods and operating frameworks required of a modern ICEN by paying more attention to the Access Advanced College of Economics (AACE) being the first University of Economics College for Nigerians.  Our Institute is a unique hub of knowledge, and we welcome all interested students and researchers to join us.” He reiterated that the association will do everything within its powers to get the Institutes Bill passed into Act of National Assembly in this 9th National Assembly under this second term of President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR while stressing that there will be revalidation of membership of the Institute with special reference to subscription payments, attendance to ICEN programs and sacrificial commitments to ICEN goals and objectives before end of April 2020. “This will enable ICEN to have comprehensive data base for members and proper planning before end June 2020. Members found wanting in terms of subscription payments, more than two times absenteeism from ICEN programs will have their ICEN Certificates revoked. The revoked certificate will be published in one of the national dailies by May 2020 and certificate numbers reissued to new entrants into the Institute. ” he said. Chinedu also said even though President Buhari has identified fighting corruption, increasing security, tackling unemployment, diversifying the economy, enhancing climate change, and boosting the living standards of Nigerians as main policy priorities of his government, since 2015, economic growth remains muted. “Growth averaged 1.9% in 2018 and remained stable at 2% in the first half of 2019. Domestic demand remains constrained by stagnating private consumption in the context of high inflation (11% in the first half of 2019). On the production side, growth in 2019 was primarily driven by services, particularly telecoms. Agricultural growth remains below potential due to continued insurgency in the Northeast and farmer-herdsmen conflicts. “Industrial performance is mixed. Oil GDP growth is stable, while manufacturing production slowed down in 2019 due to a weak power sector performance. Food and drinks increased slightly in response to import restrictions. Construction continues to perform positively, supported by ongoing megaprojects, high public investment in the first half of the year 2019, and import restrictions.However, the growth is too low to lift the bottom half of the population out of poverty. He added that despite expansion in some sectors, employment creation remains weak and insufficient to absorb the fast-growing labour force, resulting in high rate of unemployment (23% in 2018), with another 20% of the labour force underemployed while the instability in the North and the resulting displacement of people contribute to the high incidence of poverty in the North East. The ICEN boss further urged government to remove monopoly that shuts foreign investment out; attract foreign investment to fix foreign exchange scarcity and infrastructure decay and engage the world about the future of the Nigerian economy.