Recently, the Nigeria Meteorological Agency released its yearly Seasonal Rainfall Prediction, SRP. In this report, EJIKE EJIKE examines the report and what it portends for the farmers and the country at large The Nigeria Meteorological Agency has predicted near normal onset and a normal to later than normal cessation for the 2020 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction, SRP to guide different sectors in carrying out their activities, especially the farmers. The minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, who revealed the predictions, in Abuja noted the following predications “Onset (planting period): The Predicted 2020 onset of the growing season is expected to be ‘near-normal to earlier than normal in most parts of the country’ with the earliest onset date likely to occur on the 24th of February around the coastal zone of the south-south states while states like Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Katsina, Jigawa, Yobe and Borno are predicted to likely have their onset from 2nd June, 2020. “Cessation: A ‘normal to later than normal’ cessation is expected across the country. The earliest cessation date, 26th September 2020 is expected around Katsina and the northern parts of Sokoto while the latest cessation date is expected on the 28th December, 2020 over the Niger-Delta region. “Length of Growing Season: ‘A normal to longer than normal length of season’ is generally predicted across the country. In the year 2020, the length of growing season is expected to span 110-160 days in the Sahelian region of the north and 210-280 days in the south. “Rainfall Amount: A ‘normal to above normal’ rainfall is expected generally in the country. It is expected that total rainfall amounts will range from 400mm in the north to about 3000mm in the south. “Pre- Onset Rainfall (False Onset): Before the full establishment of the onset of the planting season over the various ecological zones, a couple of rainfall events are expected to occur which could be enormous and tend to give a false start of the season. Such rainfall events are not uncommon, however, their frequency seems to be on the rise. Some forcing functions have been observed to be likely responsible and will be monitored carefully and keep Nigerians informed. Farmers should therefore avoid early planting during this period to avoid losses. “Dry spells: That a severe dry spell that may last up to 10 to 21 days is expected in areas such as Niger, Bauchi, Jigawa, Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Kano, Kebbi, Yobe and Borno in the months of June and July which may last between two to three weeks after the Onset. Farmers should moisture conservation techniques to avoid crop losses during this period. “Flash Floods: The normal to near normal rainfall pattern in the country does not rule out the possibility of isolated flash floods due to increasing high intensity rainfall at the peak of the season, especially in areas that are naturally prone to flooding.” The minister further revealed that “as part of our response to address the challenges of Climate Change, The federal government has developed a National Framework for the Application of Climate Services (NFACS) as a downscaled version of the Global Framework on Climate Services (GFCS) to enable Nigeria better manage the risks while maximising opportunities arising from climate variability and change. It will build partnership, mobilise resources, coordinate national response and activities as well as develop infrastructure for climate services. “A partnership approach, involving all relevant stakeholders at all levels (Federal, States and LGAs), will ensure its success. A concerted and coordinated national effort elaborated in this Framework will therefore contribute to improving the well-being of Nigerians, particularly communities that are more vulnerable to impacts of climate extremes. “On this, NiMet, by virtue of its mandate, is largely responsible for providing climate information and has established infrastructure delivering climate services in the country. The role of NiMet in these regards is therefore unequivocal and I assure Nigerians that the Federal Ministry of Aviation will continue to support NiMet to discharge this responsibility to the nation.” A breakdown of the prediction by the director general of the NiMet, Professor Sani Abubakar Mashi, show that the onset of the growing season expected to be near-normal to earlier than normal in most parts of the country. He noted that the earliest onset date likely to occur on February 24 around coastal zone of South-South states while Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara, Katsina, Jigawa, Yobe and Borno, are likely to have their onset from June 2. According to him, “on cessation, a ‘normal to later than normal’ cessation is expected across the country. “The earliest cessation date of around Sept. 26 is expected around Katsina and Northern parts of Sokoto while the latest cessation is expected on the Dec. 28 over the Niger-Delta region. “On length of growing season, a ‘normal to longer than normal length of season’ is generally predicted across the country. “In the year 2020, the length of growing season is expected to span for 110 to 160 days in the Sahelian region of the North and for 210 to 280 days in the South.” Professor Mashi also stated that  a normal to above normal” rainfall is expected generally in the country and the a total rainfall amounts of about 400mm in the North and about 3000mm in the South are expected this year. He further predicted rainfall events that could be enormous and tend to give a false start of the season before full establishment of the onset of planting season over various ecological zones, noting that such rainfall events are not uncommon, however, their frequency seems to be on the rise. He warned that some forcing functions have been observed to be likely responsible and will be monitored carefully and keep Nigerians informed. Farmers should therefore avoid early planting during this period to avoid losses. NiMet boss also warned of a severe dry spell that might last up to 10 to 21 days in the following states: Niger, Bauchi, Jigawa, Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Kano, Kebbi, Yobe and Borno in the months of June and July, noting that such dry spell may last between two to three weeks after the onset and urged farmers to adopt soil-moisture conservation techniques to avoid crop losses during the period. Speaking on the predictions, the director, Applied Meteorological Services, Engr Mailadi Yusuf Misau said NiMet, under the direction of the Ministry of Aviation, is committed to providing timely, accurate and reliable weather and climate information in order to guide policy and decision making as well provide weather and climate advisories to our stakeholders across all sectors of national endeavors that contribute to the development of Nigeria “The 2020 SRP and the 2019 Climate Review are issued early enough for sector planners to start planning early to take advantage of the predictions as they relate to  their sectors, and, for researchers to take stock of what happened last year. The result is what we are witnessing today with your support and cooperation – the presentation of the 2020 SRP in the first month of the year! “NiMet has been delivering on this mandate ever since its Establishment Act came into force and proud to say that those predictions have been accurately and consistently delivered over the period, even with the changing climate. In fact, the consequences that ensued during the 2012 flood catastrophe that painfully engulfed the nation was as a result of the lukewarm attention given to the predictions, timely issued, by NiMet for that year. “Weather and climate events continue to exact a toll on society despite the tremendous advances and investments in climate science and operational forecasting over the past century. Weather-related hazards, including early/late onset of rainy seasons, chronic events such as droughts and floods and extended periods of extreme cold or heat, trigger and account for a great proportion of disaster losses. “Reliable weather forecasts are tremendously important for all society, and flooding and other extreme weather events continue to be some of the great challenges that confront our dear nation as the climate gets warmer. It is therefore, very important that early warning agencies such as the Nigerian Meteorological Agency are supported and given the opportunity to develop their tools and methods as weather and climate events become more dynamic. “It is pleasing to note in this respect, that, NiMet has already embarked on the next frontier of weather forecasting, that is, issuing sub-seasonal-to-seasonal (S2S) forecasts over the West African sub-region with special emphasis on Nigeria. Seasonal and sub-seasonal forecasts deliver an easy-to-use, predictive analysis that anticipates sector behavior and potential risks, and, since the forecasts are applicable across various sectors, they will speak to a good portion of our audience. Sub seasonal to seasonal forecasting is at a relatively early stage of development and many issues remain to be resolved and procedures improved before the full potential of sub-seasonal prediction can be realized. “We at NiMet want to assure the nation that we are already on-board and so have the advantage of securing a first-class seat on the journey to perfect, grasp and apply advances in the area for better forecasting. Having the type of weather information generated through the S2S forecasting technique in the hands of the public and emergency managers can provide the critical lead time necessary to prepare for natural hazards like those listed earlier and prepare for disaster in order to reduce risks and protect lives and properties. “However, since huge resources are required to fund the development of early warning mechanisms and tools, it would not be out of place if the two other tiers of government – the States and LGAs, whose communities are most vulnerable to climate change related disasters, dedicate at least 0.5 percent of their annual income to the development of weather and climate early warning tools and mechanisms to adapt and mitigate the impacts of extreme weather events occasioned by climate change, in their environments. This will help in freeing up funds that would otherwise go to disaster management for lack of adequate and reliable information to plan and minimise such disasters. It will also go a long way in complementing the efforts of the federal government as it strives to frontally adapt and mitigate catastrophes brought about by climate change, across the entire nation. Indeed, NiMet will be ready to collaborate with interested States and LGAs in the development of such early warning tools and the establishment of Climate Change Watch Groups (CCWGs) in all the States and LGAs who will be trained to understand weather conditions and corroborate them with climate change phenomena in their domains.” He said the advantage of having such a group at the grassroots is to establish a governance structure at that level that can be the first point of call for any intervention on climate change. According to him, “I am glad to note and state here that, since the floods of the year 2012, various authorities at the federal and states levels have been taking the predictions more seriously. This has become very encouraging to us and propelling us to do more and we shall continue to do more, of course, with the cooperation and support we are getting from all stakeholders.” Meanwhile, some of the farmers who participated in the event, urged NiMet to ensure that those in the rural areas get the messages from the prediction as most of the farmers live in the rural areas.