The Kaduna State Government has announced the automation of Kaduna State Traffic Law Enforcement Authority (KASTLEA) processes and the commencement of electronic traffic enforcement. In a statement by Muyiwa Adekeye, Special Adviser on Media and Communication to governor Nasir El-Rufai, said  it includes the electronic documentation of all traffic fines, vehicle accidents and collisions and real-time verification of vehicle documents: “This new system came into effect on 1st January 2020″ The statement further said that the new system is being run by Motomarket Ltd, under a public private partnership. The automation of KASTLEA will help make traffic enforcement activities in Kaduna State more efficient:” All traffic enforcement agencies will have access to the Motohub system to verify vehicle particulars, record details of traffic incidents, issue citations to offenders and collect fines” The statement disclosed that “the partnership between KDSG and Motor market to automate KASTLEA processes makes KASTLEA the first state traffic enforcement authority to electronically document all traffic violations and accidents. This state government database has now been integrated with the relevant federal databases. This synergy will allow for real-time electronic verification of all vehicle documentations and promote a paperless, mobile device-based citation process. “The system design is based on the principle that individuals without valid licenses or vehicle registration documents should not be able to get insurance. It insists that all individuals must be insured against a particular vehicle to drive it. “Motohub is a database system with a citation and collusion reporting software, and the ability to read barcodes, number plates and fingerprints based on the hardware capabilities of an agreed mobile device. Data generated by the Motohub system will be put to several uses, especially road safety, fining traffic offenders and helping to fairly price insurance policies. “The Motohub data is shared with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and the National Insurance Commission for assessing risk-based insurance pricing to ensure better driver behaviour. The system will also provide risk ratings for drivers. The data generated by the system will be useful for incremental fining for repeat traffic offenders. The system also reduces corruption in traffic enforcement and allows for collaboration with other state traffic enforcement agencies for increased revenue generation and efficiency. “To provide necessary information to relevant traffic enforcement agencies and insurance services providers, details of drivers’ licenses will be uploaded into the MotoHub System, which will be shared with them. This ensures that when an insurance policy is issued, it will contain the details of the driver registered to drive the vehicle. Real-time information on accidents, road incidents and traffic violations will also be logged into the system. “KASTLEA and FRSC will be able to use this information to administer points to drivers and insurance companies will also use this information to price policies dynamically. This will compel insurance companies to actually cover third party damage and to cover passenger injury on public transport. All other documentation legally required to drive can be checked and enforced in the same way.” The statement explained.