Governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule has given reasons why he picked Dr. Emmanuel Akabe to be his deputy, stressing that he selected him because of his competence and experience. Sule made this known while playing host to a delegation of the Alago Nation that paid him a courtesy call at the Government House yesterday. The governor emphasized that he picked Akabe as deputy not because he is Alago by tribe but because he is dependable, loyal and honest. “And I am not bragging, to work with me, you need some level of honesty.  Because if you are honest, we should be able to work together. Once we can work together, believe me, we will do nothing but the best for Nasarawa State. And that is what we intend to do,” Engineer Sule said. While taking out time to commend Alago sons and daughters contributing their quota towards the development of the state under the present administration, Engineer Sule pointed out that the Alago Nation is not only blessed with people but with other types of resources. He said that one area of focus for his administration is to use the abundant coal found in Obi to generate power. The governor used the opportunity of the visit to update the Alago Nation about the ongoing oil exploration in Keana, stressing that the exercise is still ongoing. Commenting on the infrastructural strides of his administration, particularly road construction, the governor said that he started with roads because the administration inherited a solid foundation laid by the past administration of Senator Umaru Tanko Al-makura, who did a fantastic job all over the state. While noting that his administration has completed some of the road projects started by the previous administration, he said that the government is poised to open up more areas in Alago land for the purpose of agriculture. Earlier, leader of the delegation and the Andoma of Doma, HRH Ahmadu Aliyu Ogah Onawo, expressed gratitude to the governor for choosing their son to be his deputy. The royal father described Dr. Akabe as one of the best amongst the Alagos, stressing that he has the capacity and loyalty required in a deputy.