The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu yesterday inaugurated the Chairmen of 21 Local Government Education Authorities at the Presidential Banquet Hall, Birnin Kebbi, Kebbi State. The Chairmen who are academia ( University Dons) comprising fourteen university Professors and seven PhD holders and indigenes of Kebbi State are drawn from various tertiary institutions across the nation.
They are expected to support the implementation of Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA) program designed to bring back the out of school children in all the 21 local government areas of the state . In his address at the inauguration ceremony, the Kebbi State Governor Bagudu expressed utmost happiness over the sacrifice made by the University dons in accepting to serve the state despite their tight academic schedules. He described the event as landmark history saying ” my joy knows no bound by the honor done to Kebbi State”. He observed that their participation would in no small measure help the state in trying to reshape the educational sector so that it would become a model to other states to copy.
He commended the dons for accepting to serve the state as part time Chairmen of Local Government Education Authorities as well as their zeal in meeting the desired goals. He said he was proud by the mandate given to him by the 21 local government council chairmen relying on their powers section 13 of the universal basic education law 2005 which stipulated that the local education authorities to be chaired by part time Chairmen. The governor lamented the long decay in the educational sector describing it as ‘systematic decay’ largely due to inadequate funds. He emphasised that such challenges must be tackled with all the seriousness it deserves.
Governor Bagudu pledged to support the part time chairmen in carrying out their work assuring them of free access to him anytime in carrying out their function. He pointed out that what was required for proper education of a primary school child amounted to 700 dollars by world bank but this could not be applicable in Nigeria due to limited resources. He drew examples from the Scandinavian countries that invested their very best to develop education by committing the required funding to the educational sector. The Governor commended the consultant appointed by the federal government to supervise the implementation of Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), Professor Abubakar Abdullahi Bagudo for assisting in assembling array of professionals to work collectively towards meeting target objectives. Earlier, the consultant to BESDA program, professor Abdullahi Bagudo explained that the program was a world bank sponsored program in 17 states of Nigeria,Kebbi inclusive and it targets to bring back out of the school children. He said that the world bank has injected 600 million dollars focussing on almajiris, nomadic children and the girl child to receive basic education. On his part, the Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Alhaji Muhammadu Magawata Aliero thanked the governor for his passion to overhaul the education sector in the state . He commended the governor for reviving the committee while describing it as a rescue mission. The Chairman of Jega Local Government Area, Alhaji Shehu Marshal who is also the Chairman of Kebbi State ALGON said the local government chairmen who have the legal instrument to appoint the part time chairmen of LGEAs ,have resolved to concede such right to the governor in view of the enormity of the situation. He also affirmed the commitment of the 21 local government chairmen to support and cooperate for the success of the program. The Emir of Gwandu and chairman Kebbi State Council of chiefs, Alhaji Muhammadu Iliyasu Bashar while stressing the importance of education also pledged the cooperation of traditional leaders for the success of the scheme.