It was a free-for-all fight between staff of the Department of Advertisement and Signages (DOAS) of the Federal Capital Territory (FCTA) and Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) over the collection of mobile advert revenue. The incident, which happened yesterday at Games village junction, left many staff of both agencies seriously injured. LEADERSHIP gathered that suspected thugs working as revenue officers for AMAC purportedly went on rampage, attacking three officials of DOAS and a camera man attached to the FCT minister’s office, Godwin Ameh. It was learnt that the revenue collectors, engaged by consulting firms working with AMAC as technical partners had in the past clashed with DOAS in the discharge of its mandate. Our reporter gathered that trouble started yesterday when DOAS officials attempted to recover some impounded branded vehicles by the agents of the council, thereby igniting the feud with them. The officials of DOAS had moved in to secure the release of the impounded vehicles, following complaints from the affected residents and organisations who had already paid their mobiles advertisement rates to them and obtained advertisement permits. The situation degenerated when a certain Terry Okan, now at large, led over 30 suspected thugs, armed with hockey batons and sticks to assault the officials of DOAS and journalists who were at the scene. While journalists and others scampered for safety, the thugs abducted three officials of DOAS, with the two sides later ending up at the Wuye Police Station. Confirming the incident, the director of DOAS, Dr. Babagana Adam, expressed shock at the incident, adding that his staff were attacked while performing their legitimate duties. The DOAS boss who also escaped unhurt during the incident, said, “We did not go to fight. We just went to talk as we did at Utako junction where they listened to us and released the vehicles.” One of the DOAS staff who was assaulted, Ebere Nwokocha called on relevant authorities to assist the department in the discharge of its mandate. He said, “Our assignment is to make sure that every vehicle that is branded collects a permit to operate. There is a law that backs that and all the six area councils in FCT had gazetted that law and handed over their rights on mobile adverts to the DOAS in 2012.”