Since the 20th century, technology, more than anything else, has become the enabling factor in most endeavours. In the 21st century, the development of application and utilization of information technology is taking place at a rapid pace throughout the world. Advances in ICT have accelerated the growth of e-government in both the developed and developing countries. IT has the potential to transform government structures and improve the quality of government services. ICT makes a provision of fast, inexpensive services to the population. Throughout the world, democratic governments have tended to see the web-site and portal primarily as a medium for the dissemination of information and the delivery of public services to the citizens. IT leads to better quality of services provided by government agencies. The use of information & communication technology (ICT) in governance is growing rapidly in many parts of the world. For the delivery of public services, the interaction between government agencies/bodies and citizens takes place in a government department or an administrative institution, but with emerging ICTs, it is possible to locate service delivery centres nearer to the citizen. In preparing the nation’s workforce for e-government implementation, the Federal Government recently organised a training workshop for civil servants to build their capacity with requisite skills needed for successful application of masterplan. At the inauguration of an 11-man e-governing committee of the E-Government Training Centre (ETC), co-chaired by the director-general of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Kashifu Inuwa, and the director-general, Galaxy Backbone Ltd, Prof Muhammad Abubakar to improve digital skills in literacy for civil servants in the country in Abuja, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, said NITDA and Galaxy Backbone spoke of the need for a framework and regulatory instrument for e-governance implementation. He said the centre was handed over to the ministry in November 2019, pointing out that the challenge with many government projects was sustainability which is why he said it was mandatory to work with relevant agencies. The terms of reference of the committee, according to the minister are: *To attend and contribute to all meetings; establish the legal and regulatory requirements for the centre. *Review and monitor the operational procedures of the centre; provide a strategy to ensure the sustainability of the centre and oversee its implementation. *Monitor and ensure the facility and technology management of the centre meet global standards and develop and implement strategy towards attracting funding, collaborations and expanding the centre.” He said the objectives of setting up the committee could not be achieved without providing the required training, adding most civil servants require basic training, either intermediate or advanced training, depending on their role. He, however, explained that the ministry planned to establish more centres in every geo-political zone of the country so that civil servants could be trained within their states, which would make it easier and save costs. He called on the members of the committee to start work immediately and promised to attend to every issue tabled before the ministry concerning the centre. “We need to kick-start the process immediately, and don’t forget about the sustainability of the centre. We need to immediately get our priority right and ensure that the training is started as soon as possible,’’ he further stated. In his remarks, the co-chair of the committee, Inuwa promised to work in line with the terms of reference of the committee to make digital Nigeria a reality. He agreed that capacity building is key to digital economy, saying it was about knowledge-based economy and one of the pillar drivers at NITDA. He called on the committee members to meet fortnightly for training at the centre and come up with a strategy that would help with sustainability, adding “we need to empower our citizens, government workers on how to key in and add benefit to the digital economy.” In his remarks, the co-chair of the committee, Abubakar said Nigeria could not be left behind in the e-revolution, and therefore, Nigerians must be trained on how to use all the digital platforms. He said the committee members were ready to discharge the duties given to them, and deliver on the terms of reference.