Following the retirement of Mr Oye Hassan-Odukale as managing director/CEO of Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Mr Tunde Hassan-Odukale is now the new managing director of the assurance firm. Hassan-Odukale retired after three decades of nurturing the company in executive capacity. During his tenure, Oye saw the business grow from a small regional company into one of Nigeria’s foremost insurance companies, attaining the first position in terms of Gross Premium Income (GPI) and balance sheet size. The new boss, Tunde, whose appointment takes effect from January 01, 2020, has been a key member of Leadway’s executive and leadership team since 1999, previously serving as the company’s executive director, Financial Services and Systems. Speaking on Tunde’s appointment, Leadway’s outgoing CEO, Oye Hassan-Odukale stated that, in his 30 years of leadership experience at Leadway, Tunde has been the driving force behind the tremendous growth in the areas of Life Assurance, Investments, Finance and Technology. This, he added, makes him a natural successor to steer Leadway to its next phase in history. He commended the professional team at Leadway, believing Tunde will build on the Company’s legacy. Reflecting on his appointment, Tunde said: “I am honoured, yet humbled to lead this company at a time like this. We have a customer-centric culture and an engaging approach that has enabled us to grow strongly through the years. Building on this legacy is a challenge that I accept together with our professional team. “We are where we are because our clients, brokers and direct customers trust our ability to support them in a friendly, empathetic and reliable manner.  I am passionately committed to consolidate on existing achievements by placing our clients at the absolute centre of everything we do.” Tunde, 55, is a graduate of the University of London and City University, London. He holds a Bachelor Degree in Pure Mathematics and is an alumnus of the Lagos, London, Harvard and Stanford Business Schools. He sits on the board of directors of various blue-chip companies, which includes First Bank of Nigeria Limited. He is a member of the Royal Society of Mathematics, the Institute of Actuaries and the Institute of Directors.