ABAH ADAH takes a look at some critical factors that stand in the way of the proposed hike in electricity tariffs with effect from April. Recent announcement of some increase in electricity tariffs for consumers following a minor tariff review by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) drew widespread condemnation from stakeholders who saw it as unwarranted in the face of current realities. Nigerians woke up on the 4th of January to the shocking news that NERC, as published on its website, had effected a new tariff order for December, 2019 the previous day, i.e. 3rd January, in accordance with the law, with a retroactive effect from 1st January, which provided that electricity customers in the country will have to pay more for electricity as from 1st April. In the NERC’s published order tagged December, 2019 Minor Review of the Multi Year Tariff Order (MYTO) 2015 and the Minimum Remittance Order (MRO) for 2020, and signed by its chairman, Prof James Momoh and the commissioner, Legal, Licencing and Compliance, Dafe Akpeneye, the commission noted that, “The federal government’s updated Power Sector Recovery Programme (PSPRP) does not envisage an immediate increase in end-users tariffs until 1st April, 2020,  and then a transition to full cost reflectivity by end of 2021,” adding that to bridge the gap since customers won’t pay the new tariff till April, the federal government would be funding the extra that may result from the review till then. NERC is mandated to do major review of electricity tariff once in five years and minor review twice every year, i.e. January-June; July-December, taking into account some key macroeconomic indices that shape the economy. A basic precondition for this to happen is 100 per cent metering of customers which at the moment is within the region of 50 per cent. The first minor review was that of December 2015 which was delayed due to the dust it generated but later took off in February, 2016. After leaving several reviews undone from the last half of 2016 through 2018, NERC in June, 2019 did five reviews together with retrospective effect up to the end of 2018, leaving out only the first half of 2019. The December, 2019 minor review is the second proactive review for January through June, 2020 when perhaps a major review may take place. Apart from the distribution companies (DisCos) who saw this review that is to result in higher pay by consumers from April as a good development, a reaction not unexpected of them as they have since been pushing for what they referred to as “cost reflective  tariff” and have attributed the current liquidity crisis in the sector largely to insufficient financial turnover from their services to customers, other stakeholders outrightly condemned and rejected the planned tariff increase on the grounds that even as electricity supply has continued to get worse, metering and other necessary conditions agreed upon at the privatisation of the sector some six years ago are yet unmet. On the 1st of November, 2013, attempt at reforming the embattled Nigerian power sector, which began some years back climaxed in a privatisation acclaimed to be one of the boldest power reform initiatives globally. The foremost objectives of the reform were two-fold: to address chronic efficiency gaps in the old public utilities, and attract private capital needed to propel the sector to meet Nigeria’s fast growing electricity demand. But in spite of the huge funds and efforts committed to the course of repositioning the all-important industry for greater performance over the years by successive governments, no appreciable impact has been made, and the sector still grapples with the same challenges that informed the reforms in the first place. Suffice to say that the challenge with effective and efficient electricity supply in the post-privatised electricity market in Nigeria is a vicious cycle yet unbroken. Much of the challenges are now said to be with the transmission (midstream) and, most especially, the distribution (downstream) wings of the industry. These lack the capacity to convey even the not too good 7, 000 megawatts (MW) being made available by the electricity generators upstream. In fact, about 2, 000 MW are stranded and cannot reach the very power hungry Nigerians. Six years down the line, what the national grid (transmission), the government own subsection within the value chain, can wheel out for distribution remains within the region of 5, 500MW on the average while the average quantum delivered by the DisCos hovers around 3, 000 to 3, 500MW as was the case in 2015, after all the orchestrated efforts and the funds expended. So the “over 190 million” Nigerians still have to grapple with epileptic and poor electricity supply amid ever increasing estimated bills passed on to the unmetered customers who see the development  as a calculated exploitation of consumers by DisCos. And to them, any increase in electricity at this time is not tenable and must be resisted. In separate reactions to media reports on the tariff hike, the citizens saw the hike as uncalled for considering the fact that power supply has not improved and that majority of customers are not metered. They appealed to the federal government not to allow a few individuals to further milk them by making them pay more for darkness instead of stable power supply they critically need for domestic and commercial uses. The national president of the Energy Consumer Rights and Responsibilities Initiative, Mr Sural Fadairo, said “Tariff hike was unjustified based on current realities,” adding that increasing the cost of electricity was not the panacea to Nigeria’s energy crisis. According to him, “If the DisCos are under remitting due to debts owed by customers, how will they pay if the bills are further increased? “What they need to do is to meter all electricity customers so that we can end the issue of estimated billing. So, from the consumer point of view, we are totally against any increment because power generation and supply has not improved significantly in the country.” To the national coordinator of All Electricity Consumers Protection Forum, Mr Adeola Samuel-Ilori, the increase was totally uncalled for in all ramifications. He said: “The basis for such increase at this time can’t be justified in that consumers have not been metered and they still purchase transformers and other line materials by themselves with attendant extortion via estimated billings. “All these are not taken into consideration and extensively dealt with before contemplating tariff increase.” The chairman of the Network for Electricity Consumers Advocacy of Nigeria (NECAN), Tomi Akingbogun, in a telephone conversation from London with LEADERSHIP, described the development as “counter-productive, especially in an economy that is already over-burdened with a lot of challenges and struggling to meet up. “It is not a welcome development. This review was proposed sometime last year and we the customers were not happy because we knew it has a lot of negative implications for the economy. For instance, cost of production will again shoot up. “And when you look at the performance of the DisCos after the much-touted privatisation, you will certainly conclude that there is nothing to warrant any increase in the tariffs.” He advised NERC to look into the responsibilities of the 11 DisCos at the signing of the contract during privatisation, among which, according to him, is that customers were to be metered 100 per cent for the tariffs to go up. “The responsibility of metering all customers by the DisCos has not been met; so why increasing the tariff,” he asked rhetorically. “And when you do so, the cost of production will further rise, and the implication is that prices of goods and services will follow amidst inflation. “It is true some DisCos complained that they are not making profits, but in reality they are making unreported profits. So to me, by trying to increase the tariffs without metering the customers is like setting a trap in the economy,” he said. Also, the managing director, Monarco Guards Nigeria Ltd, an Abuja-based security outfit, Mr Lucky Monye, condemned the increase in electricity tariffs. He described the upward review as untimely and unfortunate considering the economic realities at the moment and the poor performance of the DisCos regarding electricity supply. Monye said: “Nigeria is seriously under pressure under the present economic realities, so I think this increase is very untimely. How can this happen when the government is preaching ease of doing business. And we are told that Value Added Tax (VAT) has been increased. This I think is not good for the economy.” In the heat of the opprobrium, NERC has followed up with an explanation that the proposed increase will not come into effect until it has gone round in consultation with stakeholders across the country, adding that the outcome is what will determine finally the fate of any increase. A statement signed and issued by the Commission’s GM, Public Affairs, Dr Unman Arabi, said, “The public and stakeholder consultations shall be implemented in line with requirements of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act and Business Rules of the Commission.”