The minister of state for petroleum resources, Chief Timipre Sylva has said that the federal government is working assiduously in collaboration with all stakeholders to ensure the passage of the petroleum industry bill (PIB) before the end of May this year. He gave the assurance during his median press briefing since assumption of office in Abuja on Thursday. Speaking on what he termed the ministry’s plan to move the oil and gas industry to the next level, Chief Sylva stated that a two point strategic plan that will evolve from 2020 to 2023 has been developed. He stated that the first will be to improve and develop the petroleum industry, while the next will be to improve on the relationship between the industry and the ordinary Nigerian. The minister noted that it will however be impossible to achieve all this without first addressing the regulatory issues facing the industry hence the urgent need to pass the petroleum industry bill (PIB). He expressed confidence that the bill will be passed before the first anniversary of this administration which comes up in May due to the cordial relationship currently existing between the executive and legislative arms of government. Elaborating on what the ministry intends to do within this year he said, “What we intend to do this year? First we want to progress the consideration and the passage of the overall petroleum legislation. The team working on the PIB is at the final stage of the harmonisation of all the existing versions from 2000 to date, 2009, 2012 and 2018, with consideration to the concerns raised by the industry players to create an enabling environment for investors as well as appropriate government take in all the oil and gas value chain. “Counting on the current harmony between the executive and the legislative arms of government, we are optimistic that both the petroleum industry governance, administration and host community bill on the one hand and the petroleum industry fiscal bill on the other hand will be passed within the first anniversary of this administration. “Special focus will be placed on the mid-stream and downstream sectors. Consequently we are considering two regulators in the PIB, one for the upstream , The Commission and another for the midstream and the downstream, The Authority. “The midstream and downstream sectors will particularly open enormous opportunity to local investors and create massive job opportunities in the country. For example opportunities will be available in the pipeline engineering, redesigning, procurement and construction. Terminal operations pipe mills fabrications of vessels , storage facilities, pipe transportation and laying equipment, refineries, central processing facilities and also investment in gas based industries, fertilisers, methanol, petrochemicals, LPG, CMG, etc.” Assuring investors of opportunities in the industry as a result of the development, he said, “Open access for oil and gas transportation will be fully enhanced. On the upstream side, we are coming up with more robust fiscal provision, acreage management, drilling or drop program, we are not only going to retain investors, but multitudes will join the league of high value operators.” One the long term plan, the minister said, “What do we want to do as a ministry between 2020 and 2023, two main broad things we want to do, one is to improve and develop the petroleum industry. Take it from where we have it now to the next level. “Second will be to improve the relationship between this industry and the man on the street. A lot of Nigerians on the street, do not have any other relationship with the industry other than at the fuel pump.