Gombe State deputy governor, Dr Manassah Daniel Jatau, has sought for peaceful and amicable resolution in boundaries demarcation between Gombe and Bauchi states, with a view to enhancing cordial relationship. The recent discovery of oil in the Northeast, elicited controversy, as both Bauchi and Gombe states are laying claims of ownership of where the oils wells are located. Gombe State deputy governor who is the chairman of the state’s Boundary Committee, spoke at the joint meeting of Gombe/Bauchi interstate boundary at Command Guest House , Shadawanka Barrack, Bauchi. Jatau who noted that the two states shares the same historical antecedents, also expressed optimism that the relationship cannot be severed by boundary demarcation. The deputy governor lauded President Muhammadu Buhari, for directing the immediate demarcation of the boundaries by the National Boundary Commission (NBC), with a view to ensuring permanent peace in the area. Jatau assured the joint committee of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya’s commitment to a speedy and amicable resolution of boundary dispute between his state and Bauchi, as well as any other state that shares common boundary with Gombe. In his address at the meeting, Bauchi State deputy governor,  who is also the chairman of Bauchi State Boundary Committee, Baba Tela, stressed the need for boundary demarcation, saying it will ensure stronger political stability, socio-cultural and economic growth between the two states. According to him, boundary lines should not be seen as separating communities or breaching the existing peace between them, but to be seen as the limits of different administrative jurisdictions. Tela added that the joint meeting presented a unique opportunity for understanding and appreciating the supportive role of the federal, state, and local governments functionaries on boundary matters. The Bauchi State deputy governor, however canvassed for  proper demarcation of interstate boundaries to avoid breaching of existing peace at the borders.