As part  of efforts to cut down the huge cost associated with  boosting effective service delivery of security agencies and infrastructure to Nigerians, the  federal government has advised on the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) to seek alternative means of raising funds for government. The minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola made the call, yesterday, in his office  when he played host to a delegation from ICRC, led by its director general, Engr. Chidi Izumah. Aregbesola,  who described Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission as  central to the government’s desire to move the nation to the next level of socio-economic development, stressed that the provision of internal security is capital intensive, as such there is urgent need for agencies of government to explore alternative means of financing internal security services and governmental projects. He said, “Your Agency will be held accountable by history, if you fail to look for alternative financing now. He commended the leadership of ICRC for its commitment to service, saying more hands must be on deck to support the administration of president Muhammadu Buhari to put  smilem on the faces of millions of Nigerians who he said, are in dire need of government’s support. Aregbesola added that the practice of Public Private Partnership (PPP) in the country is cost intensive and not enough to give hope to Nigerians, but to encourage a private sector-driven economy where government plays a supervisory role. The minister expressed optimism that the plan of his Ministry to transform the Custodial facilities of the Nigerian Correctional Service Centres to Enterprise Centres would further boost the economic drive of the Federal Government. Earlier, the permanent secretary in the ministry, Barr Georgina Ehuriah, said the mnistry has been generating revenue for the government through its expatriate quotas and licensing of places of worship for statutory marriages, among others. In his remarks, the director general, Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission, Engr Chidi Izumah said, his team came to rejig its collaboration with the ministry and its agencies, so as to move the country to the next level of socio-economic development in line with the policy thrust of President Muhammadu Buhari Administration.