Coalitions of 16 unions in Bauchi state have condemned what they called the inability of the Supreme Court of Nigeria to deliver judgement between Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed of the PDP and former governor Mohammed Abubakar of the All Progressives Congress as earlier scheduled.
The coalition made its position known during a press conference at the NUJ Press Centre Bauchi on the delay of the judgement by the apex court in Abuja. Members of the coalition alleged that the delay in delivering the judgement is casting doubts in the minds of the citizens of Bauchi state on whether the apex court will do justice in affirming previous rulings on the case. Comrade Ahmad Adamu Umar, Coordinator, Kaura patriotic forum who was answering questions from our correspondent revealed that “we are notifying the supreme court that the People of Bauchi state have labored through prayers, struggle and hard work to bring this government on board; let no one upturn this popular mandate for any clandestine interest. “We voted for Kaura overwhelmingly, through popular mandate because it’s our firm believe that he will address the socio economic problems of Bauchi state”, adding that the people of the state will resist any attempt to delegitimize Bala Mohammed as the substantive governor of the state. Comrade Umar said “this frequent adjournment of these cases by the apex court is casting doubts in our minds as to whether the court will do justice for the people of Bauchi state. “We are reminding the court that it is an institution of government that is supposed to be accountable, they cannot be differing cases whose days of judgement have been earlier announced without any justification and convincing explanation as to why they did that”. “When you do that you are creating an atmosphere of confusion and pandemonium, and this quite unfortunate”, Comrade Umar angrily stated. The group alleged that the delay by the Supreme Court is giving room for some power brokers to interfere in its quest of justice in delivering the judgment. Another member of the group, Jafar Adamu of the movement for democracy said “the essence of the press conference is to remind the world how Bauchi state suffered in the hands of former governor MA Abubakar; so returning this man to sit on the affairs of Bauchi state is quite dangerous and inimical to the people of the state. “The Supreme Court needs to be reminded that in the vent it delivers any judgemnet against the popular mandate that got Bala elected, they are creating an atmosphere of lawlessness that will further deteriorate insecurity in the entire north east”, he warned.
Jafar Adamu added that “Bauchi state has always been a tensed state when it comes to politics, because we have a history of uprooting unpopular leaders that have not achieve anything for the state; so we are calling on the Supreme court to stand with the people of the state and do justice to us”.
Earlier, the Chairman, PDP Bauchi local government, Alhaji Abdulkadir Alin Bababa said governor Bala Mohammed defeated the candidate of the APC with massive votes, therefore the Supreme Court ought not to declare any other person other than the winner of the election. The coalition called on the people of the state to remain resolute in prayers and not to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in the state, saying they will do everything within the ambits of the law to pursue their rights through constitutional means.