Seven months after he was inaugurated as the governor of Imo State on May 29, 2019, Emeka Ihedioha, has lost the office to Senator Hope Uzodimma. He was removed by the Supreme Court last night on the ground that he did not score majority of the lawful vote in the March 9, 2019 governorship election. In his stead, the apex court declared Uzodimma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as winner of the poll and ordered that he be immediately sworn in as the duly elected governor of the state. The apex court, in the judgement delivered by Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, agreed that results in 388 polling units were unlawfully excluded during the collation of the final governorship election result in the state. Justice Kekere-Ekun said that with the results from the affected polling units, Uzodimma polled the majority lawful votes and ought to have been declared the winner of the election by the independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Consequently, Justice Kekere-Ekun in the unanimous judgement voided and set aside the declaration of lhedioha as the winner of the election by INEC. The court, therefore, ordered that the certificate of return wrongly issued to lhedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), be immediately withdrawn by INEC and a fresh one issued to Uzodinma as the elected governor. Justice Kekere-Ekun also set aside the judgment of the Imo State Electric Petitions Tribunal and that of the Court of Appeal, which refused to recognise and accept the votes of the 388 polling units as being unlawfully excluded in the general collation. Uzodinma will be sworn in today at a yet-to-be disclosed venue. Senator Uzodimma and APC had in their appeal asked the apex court to review the judgment of the two lower courts against them and restore their victory in the governorship election. The appellants maintained that the unlawful exclusion of the votes from the 388 polling units denied them victory in the election. The court, however, adjourned sitting in the appeals filed against Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and his Sokoto State counterpart, Aminu Tambuwal, till January 20, 2020. Meanwhile, the shifting of ruling on Ganduje, Tambuwal and four other governors’ cases has heightened tension in their states. The rest states are Plateau, Benue, Bauchi, and Adamawa. Shock, Disbelief Trail Verdict In Imo State, shock and disbelief yesterday trailed the Supreme Court’s declaration of Uzodimma as the validly elected governor of the state. The court proceeding which had dragged for hours took a new turn when the court admitted the results of the polling booths submitted by Uzodimma as not credited to him by INEC. Many political pundits had concluded that Ihedioha would be reaffirmed as the governor by the apex court. However, maverick priest, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka had about two weeks ago declared that Uzodimma would be returned as the governor, a prophecy many described as political and insensitive. Soon after the judgement, silence took over the state as heavy police presence was noticed at the entrance of the Government House which was immediately locked. The police also took over all the local government headquarters and major roads to avert any breakdown of law and order. Residents were seen in groups discussing the development which they described as shocking. President Muhammadu Buhari last night commended the Supreme Court for its courage and perseverance in the decision to return a well-deserved victory to Uzodimma He said: “The road to justice may be long and tortuous, but it is the best path for anyone aggrieved.” The president, in a statement issued by his media aide, Garba Shehu, said that “under the new administration, a new journey to build a new Imo with new energy is about to begin. In this outcome, it is the people of Imo State who have emerged victorious.“ In congratulating the new governor, President Buhari urged Senator Uzodimma to promote the ideals of the APC and unite the state by running an inclusive administration. APC, PDP Differ On Judgement In its reaction to the judgement, the ruling APC expressed joy that it favoured its candidate. The party said that it never lost faith in the judiciary even though it lost out in election cases in Zamfara and Rivers States at the apex court. On its part, the PDP described the judgement as yet another sad commentary on the nation’s democratic order. In a statement released issued by the party’s national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the APC called on stakeholders in Imo to rally round Uzodinma to ensure the party delivers on the Next Level agenda. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) is ecstatic over the Supreme Court‘s declaration of Senator Hope Uzodinma as the rightful winner of the 2019 Imo State governorship election. “Even as we are still wondering why we lost elections we clearly won in Zamfara State at the Supreme Court and how the same court ruled our party out of the electoral race in Rivers State, we have never, as a political party, lost faith in the judiciary. “We salute Senator Hope Uzodimma, our supporters and members for their temperance displayed in the aftermath of the blatant rigging of the Imo governorship election. We chose to focus on the judicial route to reclaim the party‘s mandate. We are confident that our other stolen electoral mandates will be restored by the courts. “The APC calls on all Imo State APC stakeholders to come together in support of Senator Uzodinma to ensure the success of the party‘s Next Level agenda and to democratically entrench the APC in the state and the entire South East,“ the statement added. The PDP,  in a statement released by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that the party “finds it difficult to understand how Senator Hope Uzodimma/APC, that came fourth in the March 9, 2019 governorship election, with just  96,458 votes, will suddenly, by the token of the judgment of the Supreme Court, defeat Emeka Ihedioha/PDP that scored 276,404 votes. “In fact, the PDP and indeed, most Nigerians, are still at a loss as to understand the basis upon which the Supreme Court arrived at its decision,“ he said. Ologbondiyan further said that „it is lamentable that the destiny of the people of Imo State is being taken from the governor they chose and voted for and handed over to individuals and a political party that do not have their blessing and mandate and which they rejected at the election. “The people of Imo State are now confronted with the challenge of having a government that they cannot identify with and which cannot connect with them, having not emanated from them. “Moreover, all the gains, including the development and stability already achieved by the people-based government, under Governor Emeka Ihedioha/PDP administration in the state are now heavily jeopardised. “Indeed, the mournful and despondent ambience that now pervades in Imo State is a loud testimony that the judgment did not reflect the expectation of the people as expressed at the polls. “While recognising that the judgment of the Supreme Court is final, the PDP, however, urges all party stakeholders in the state to remain united and calm, and await further instruction from the national leadership on this very sad development,“ he said. The Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege congratulated Uzodinma on his victory at the Supreme Court. He described the development as victory for democracy, adding that it had affirmed that the judiciary remains the last hope of the common man. In a congratulatory message he personally signed, Omo-Agege who doubles as the South-South APC leader, said: ”I join millions of Nigerians in congratulating you on your well-deserved electoral victory at the Supreme Court. “Your victory and that of the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) is a clear indication that no matter how long it takes, light will always prevail over darkness,” he said. Victory Is New Year Gift, Says Gov Oyetola Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State also congratulated Uzodimma on his legal victory, which he described as a well-deserved New Year gift. The governor noted that the victory had put paid to the long-held sentiment that the APC is a party that has no foothold in the Southeast zone. Oyetola, in a statement issued by his chief press secretary, Ismail Omipidan, said that the judgment had put to rest the tussle over who truly won the Imo governorship election. Kogi Gov Congratulates Uzodimma Similarly, Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, congratulated Uzodinma on his victory at the Supreme Court, describing the apex court‘s verdict as a just one. In a statement issued by his chief press secretary, Onogwu Muhammed, the governor said that the outcome demonstrated yet again that the judiciary remained a great arm of government that rights all wrongs. According to him, “Senator Hope Uzodinma is a party man who has worked tirelessly for the success of the APC at all levels across the nooks and crannies of Nigeria.” He stressed that the Progressives Governors’ Forum was glad with the new addition, and described Uzodinma as a detribalised, just and passionate Nigerian committed to the unity and progress of the country. The governor urged the senator to be the “governor” of all irrespective of political affiliations. “With this Supreme Court verdict, you are the governor of all the Imolites irrespective of political affiliations,“ he said.