Nigeria’s security chiefs have hinted of the federal government’s resolve to fund the community policing model so to be introduced across the country. The chief of air staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, disclosed this to State House correspondents after the security chiefs met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja. He confirmed that the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) had received two fighter jets on Wednesday to aid it in the war against insurgency in the Northeast zone. The air chief said: “We also looked at the emerging situations in some of our areas particularly acts of banditry in some of the Northwestern states and other parts of the country and we are satisfied with the progress we are making; we are satisfied with the support the federal government is giving the armed forces and other security agencies in terms of the procurement of platforms, substantial number of these equipment are expected by the end of February. “Some of the equipment we are acquiring have started arriving for the Nigerian Air Force, two helicopters arrived on the 15th of January and we are now in the process of putting them together which will add to whatever we have. “We are equally expecting other equipment like I said that are meant for the armed forces of Nigeria which we are hoping to get by the end of February. I am sure you are also familiar with the equipment acquisition by the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). “I am sure you are also aware of the policy on community policing that was approved by Mr. President and it is going to be funded. The whole idea is to ensure that Nigeria is secured and Nigerians can go about pursuing their legitimate aspirations without any hindrance. “Basically, that is what this meeting is all about and what we want to do is to reassure Nigerians that the armed forces of Nigeria and indeed security and intelligence agencies in the country are going to continue to work round the clock to ensure that the country is secured and to ensure that nobody undermines the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of Nigeria. “We are going to keep a very close watch on what is going on and with the equipment that we are getting, definitely, the challenges we are facing in some of the theatres of operation particularly the Northeast will be addressed adequately. “We are doing everything with the other sister countries in the Lake Chad Basin to ensure that the Boko Haram terrorism is brought substantially to an end as quickly as possible,” he said. The chief of air staff appealed to Nigerians and other stakeholders to join the armed forces and other security and intelligence agencies to ensure that the  country is secured rather than looking at other methods that are likely to negate the national policy and community policing policy that the federal government has approved. “What we expect is for all stakeholders, local governments and state governments to join us to ensure that our country is secured,” he added.