In its 15 years of existence, the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) has only enrolled four million Nigerians for its services in various hospitals across the country. The figure translates to just two per cent of the country‘s estimated 200 million population, LEADERSHIP has learnt. This revelation came against the popular claim that between five to 10 million Nigerians are registered in the scheme. Curiously, a reliable source in the sector declared that “it is difficult to ascertain the actual figure of those enrolled into the scheme because those percentages and figures that people are talking about in the country are not confirmed since the number of workers in the public sector is not something that anyone cannot determine.” The source stated that “when the NHIS took off in 2005, the population of civil servants that was given then reduced drastically when the Treasuring Single Account (TSA) was introduced in 2015. And what that means is that there were a lot of ghost workers that were captured as part of the scheme. So, that gives a lot of confusion and conflict about the adequacy of the percentage, but I can tell you for sure that the figure is not up to four million.“ This may account for the recent statement of the NHIS that the claims of five to 10 per cent enrollees were unjustifiable. Recently in Kano, NHIS executive secretary, Prof. Mohammed Sambo, said that the exact number of enrollees cannot be ascertained since there were no denominators for the total population the scheme was expected to cover. Sambo said the only way to determine the accurate level of coverage, especially since NHIS is yet to be made mandatory is to establish the total population NHIS should cover, which is the denominator. He said:“We don’t know the total population of the employees in Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). There are no answers to the total number of employees in the federal government.“ The scheme, which was established under Act 35 of 1999 Constitution (as amended) by the federal government, among others, is to improve the health of all Nigerians at an affordable cost. It was set up with the objective of making healthcare affordable and accessible to many Nigerians. But, observers believe that NHIS has failed to achieve its objectives, especially as many Nigerians still faces a lot of problems in the cause of seeking healthcare service. The president of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Prof. Francis Faduyile, said that “the scheme has been ineffective because till now, we have not had up to five per cent enrolment level. That is very poor and it is a very pathetic situation. “The informal sector needs community-based health insurance scheme and we need private people to join in the scheme,“ he said. Also, the chairman of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) chapter of the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Dr. Philips Ekpe, said that NHIS had not really worked, being controlled by the government. He suggested that the government should make the scheme compulsory so that Nigerians in both formal and informal sectors would be enrolled into it. Similarly, other critical stakeholders in the health sector have expressed concern over the current setup of the NHIS and therefore called for the amendment of its enabling law. The chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe, said that Nigeria cannot achieve increased NHIS coverage without making the scheme mandatory He said: “ The way the scheme is being implemented, it is only attracting or capturing more of workers in the formal sector. Some private organisations do, but because we do not make it compulsory, some don’t do. But from our side as parliamentarians, we are already following up on the amendment of the NHIS Act of 1999. It was amended the last time by the eight parliament; it was passed but was not signed into law. “The amendment has already gone through first reading, we hope in the next few weeks it will be brought for second reading,” Oloriegbe said. Also, Health Management Organisations (HMOs) under the aegis of the Health and Managed Care Association of Nigeria (HMCAN), have urged the federal government to change the name of NHIS to National Health Insurance Commission (NHIC). Stakeholders, who spoke with LEADERSHIP in this regard, stressed the need for the federal government to review the existing Act 35 of 1999 and ensure that the scheme is upgraded to a commission in order to act strictly as a regulatory body. The association’s national publicity secretary, Dr Lekan Ewenla, said that “it is long overdue that the National Assembly should consider upgrading the scheme to a full-fledged NHIC that will give room for better regulations as well as make the scheme mandatory for all Nigerians to buy into and operate rather than the present voluntary exercise.” Ewenla said that it is only when every Nigerian regardless of his or her status can be covered in the universal health insurance that its maximum benefits can be felt by the larger population. “If the law makes it compulsory for every employer of labour whether in the public or private sector to enrol their employees and the government also comply with the Health Act of contributing one per cent of the total health budget in the event of emergency for those who are not covered by the formal or informal sectors, health insurance coverage would have gone a long way to reach several millions of Nigerians,” he added. Meanwhile, the federal government has identified the NHIS as key to achieving universal health coverage  (UHC) and this, stakeholders said had received a major boost with the recent release of N13.775billion by the federal government through which the NHIS disbursed N6.5 billion to 15 states and the FCT.