About 159 students are currently jostling to gain admission to Turkey universities for higher studies. LEADERSHIP gathered that Goodmus Learning Centre organised an entrance examination into Tokat Gaziosmanpasa University in Turkey at different locations in Nigeria. The exam known as YOS examination is scheduled to take place on the 21st, 22nd, 25th and 27th of January this year at their Ilupeju head office, Ikorodu in Lagos, Ibadan, Akure, Abuja and other locations. At the session held at Illupeju and Ikorodu in Lagos recently, more than 100 prospective candidates participated in the entrance exam while 59 candidates took the exam in Ibadan and another hundreds in other states. Speaking at the exam centre in Lagos, Chief Executive Officer of Goodmus Learning Centre, Adekunle Badmus said the entrance exam was to help the students discover their field of study so that, they don’t end up doing courses they can’t cope with. Badmus said that the exam was designed to assess the ability of students in order to discover the courses which they can fit in, in the university. The CEO emphasised that nobody is expected to fail the exam, as those who could not score high grades are considered in other areas, particularly in vocational studies. “The unique thing about this exam is that, it is not to fail anybody. It is an assessment exam. Those who could not get high marks are given 2-year diploma courses while those who got high marks are placed for degree programmes”, Badmus said. He pointed out that the school is very much aware that it is not everybody that should go for degree programmes in the University. The school, he said, has therefore, created a lot of vocational courses similar to degree programmes so as to carry all candidates along. According to him, the school has a target of empowering about one million African students, just as he informed that the school has already empowered over 500 students in the last 3 to 5 years. Badmus decried the situation whereby the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) conduct exams last for only one year period, noting that such situations have led to the frustration of many youths who, in turn go into some social vices.