The federal government has said it would engage Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in the implementation of the sustainable development goals (SDGs) agenda. Senior special assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, who disclosed this during a two-day retreat organised by her office in Abuja for CSOs with the theme: ‘CSOs 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in Nigeria’ said, “The challenges we face in our efforts to achieve the SDGs are numerous, complex and multi-faceted. “Nevertheless, with all stakeholders working together and in synergy as exemplified in what we are doing today, we will certainly overcome. “Research has shown that CSOs have played crucial roles in the socio-economic development of nations. Through the concept of social accountability, CSOs are able to hold leaders at all levels accountable for their stewardship. “Individually and collectively, CSOs have the capacity to extend the territorial reach of the state, and in so doing catalyse sustainable development.” She noted that SDGs are a universal call to end poverty, safeguard the planet and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity by the year 2030. She further said that it is therefore pertinent for the CSOs to work collaboratively for the support of SDGs, in this ‘Decade of Action’, CS0s cannot afford to work in Silos, adding that this idea will weaken capacity to engage actively with the public and private sectors towards the achievement of the SDGs in Nigeria. Adejoke who also re-affirmed her commitment to the successful implementation of the SDGs in Nigeria, said that Nigerians can count on her support as “we commence the ‘Decade of Action’ for the people and the planet.” In his address, the coordinator of United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Agency, Mr Edward Kallon, said the 2030 Agenda commits all countries and stakeholders to work together to promote sustained and inclusive economic growth; social development; and environmental protection, while “leaving no one behind’. “SDGs are our shared vision to end poverty, rescue the planet and build a peaceful world. We must cultivate the new way of working to build sustained peace and implement the 2030 Agenda because we cannot continue to do the same things and expect different results, the global annual SDG investment gap is estimated US$ 2.5 trillion. “The good news is that some 130 banks in the world have an asset base of over US$ 43 trillion and have signed up to the principles of Responsible Banking, while the global investors for sustainable development have pledged to scale up private investment in the SDG goals and take action on structural road blocks,” he said 