The Senate has asked the management of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria; Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi and University of Jos to absorb students who are of Plateau State indigene stranded in University of Maiduguri. According to the Senate, the recent killing of students and people who of Plateau State extraction by the Boko Haram terrorists have put fear in the mind of many students who are now stranded in Borno State. This resolutions by the Senate followed an order 42 and 52 brought before the Senate by Gyang Istifanus Dung (Plateau North). The Senate, after listening to Gyang point of order, called on the management of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU) Bauchi and University of Jos (UniJos) to absorb students of Plateau State extraction that are now stranded in University of Maiduguri. Gyang earlier in his presentation said there was a ploy by the Boko Haram terrorists to divide Nigerians along religious lines. He said the adoption and killing of the Plateau state citizens by Boko Haram terrorists and the videos released which tent to bring division should be condemn. He said a new trend is emerging when Plateau state people are targeted and urged the Senate to ask the management of ABU, ATBU and UniJos absolve students stranded in Maiduguri as a result of the recent killings of the Plateau State citizens in Borno State. Gyang, while mentioning several people who have been killed by the Boko Haram terrorists with attendant propaganda, said six persons of Plateau state have been adopted, four males and two girls. He said some were killed by the terrorists that released a video of their executions. But the Senate asked Nigerians not to give in on the hate narrative paddle by Boko Haram adding that their aim is to set Nigerians against themselves. “The aim is to whip ethnic sentiment and shift attention from their evil act that did not shield the Muslims. Traditional rulers, Imams and Pastors have been killed by the Boko Haram. We should not allow the terrorists to polarize the citizens along religious lines,” Gyang said adding that when the bandits were attacking Plateau people, they thought it was a Plateau problem which have now spread to North Central and North West. He said while they are witnessing return of peace, communities in Bokkos and other places where attack with 27 people killed.