Travellers across the globe stand a chance to enjoy another bumper year of travel with Emirates’ 2020 global fare promotion.  For a limited time, jet-setters in Nigeria can look forward to great deals to key destinations in Emirates’ global network with special Business Class and Economy Class fares. With return fares at a special price offer, travellers have another compelling reason to embark on new adventures in 2020 and plan them in advance. The fares are available from January 6th to 21st 2020 and are valid for travel from January 7th to November 30th 2020. By making continued investments in refreshing the world’s biggest fleet of Airbus A380s and Boeing 777s, passengers travelling with Emirates are able to Fly Better on every single flight. According to Emirates, “With door-to-door chauffeur service and luxury on-ground lounges in select airports worldwide, and on board enhancements, travellers can Fly Better with a seamless travel experience. “An on-board shower spa, fine dining and lounge bar are some of the exclusive experiences for First Class travellers on-board the A380, while the Boeing 777 offers uncompromising luxury and privacy with an enclosed First Class Suite, and mood lighting set to provide unprecedented comfort for travellers, along with virtual windows and sleek leathery inspired by the Mercedes-Benz S-Class. Exclusive wines, champagnes and spirits, along with regionally inspired gourmet meals ensure that that all palates are matched. “Passengers traveling on the Boeing 777 Business Class enjoy unprecedented levels of comfort with wider and more ergonomic seats; while First and Business Class passengers on board the A380 can socialise and enjoy drinks and canapés at the iconic on-board Lounge. Sit back, relax and choose from more than 4,500 channels of the latest TV and on-demand content in multiple languages with Emirates’ award-winning ice inflight entertainment system.” The airline also informed that, passengers across all cabins can share their travel experience on social media and stay connected throughout the flight, with pre-loaded 20MB of free Wi-Fi data. With the vibrant and dynamic city of Dubai as its hub, Emirates provides travellers with direct connections to more than 150 destinations in 85 countries and territories including 43 destinations in Europe; 17 in the Americas; 23 in Africa; 13 in the Middle East; and 17 in South Asia.