The federal government’s bid to revive the moribund Ajaokuta Steel Company has received a boost from the Cairo, Egypt-based African Export-Import Bank (Afrexim Bank), which has agreed to commit about $1 billion into the project. It is backed by the state-owned development institution, Russian Export Center, to adequately fund the project. The minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, disclosed  in Lagos, yesterday, that the Russian engineering and construction group, Metprom, would undertake the necessary work to bring the steel complex into operation. To set the stage for the deployment of the funds into the project, the federal government and Russia will sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) as part of the resuscitation programme of the Ajaokuta Steel Company, which has been moribund for over four decades. Adegbite said that the ongoing arrangement would spark off a major industrial revolution in Nigeria in the next two years. The construction of Ajaokuta Steel began in 1979 with assistance from the then Soviet Union, but it never started production and several attempts to revive it by transferring it to private investors failed forcing the government to terminate the concessions. In an interactive session with the media in Lagos, yesterday, the minister confirmed the MoU would be signed before the end of January. Adegbite said that the project would create employment for about 10,000 engineers and facilitate the industrial transformation agenda of the government. He hinted that the government had spent about $6 billion in its efforts to revive the company. The minister said that Ajaokuta Steel output would help to realise President Muhammadu Buhari’s plans to diversify the economy from oil to the non-oil sector. Ajaokuta Steel was designed to produce as three-million tonnes of steel a year and would have largely eliminated the need for imports if the project was completed and functional. Adegbite said that the government had realised that the best option is to return to Russia which handled the project from inception, to complete and operate it so that they can recoup their investment and transfer it back to Nigeria. The minister explained that earlier discussions on the plant were sealed when Buhari and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, reached a deal during the last Russia-Africa Summit in Sochi. According to him, after signing the MoU, a formal agreement would follow which would spell out the details of the job and we expect Russia to appoint a competent firm that will complete, operate and eventually transfer the plant back to the Nigerian government after “training our engineers to take over.” The two governments plan to conclude the deal this month, after which it would take two years to complete the blast furnace, the key component of the facility that would turn domestic iron ore into liquid steel, Adegbite said. The late Second Republic President Shehu Sharagi and Leonid Brezhnev-led Nigeria and Russia first started to build the Ajaokuta steel rolling mill in 1979. Forty years later, Nigeria is again banking on a bilateral agreement with Russia to resuscitate the now derelict steel factory complex. Nigeria’s rich deposit of iron ore, much of it in Kogi State, where the Ajaokuta plant is located, makes steel a viable target for government’s revenue campaign and also offers the scope to develop other industries. “As the federal government strives to diversify the economy through mining and the steel sector, the revitalisation of Ajaokuta Steel Company to produce optimally is of utmost concern to the present administration,” he said. Adegbite said that funds for the resuscitation of the steel mill are already in place, adding that a committee has been set up to start the project. The minister added that the revival of the National Iron Ore Mining Company, Itakpe, has been included in the deal signed between Nigeria and Russia for the completion and operation of Ajaokuta steel factory.