Worried by the death of Mrs. Mary Okereke of Ugwulangwu Community in Ebonyi State who was recently raped to death by one Isa Laolu, a 20 year old boy, some aggrieved women in the State have called on the state Governor, Chief David Umahi to deploy some members of the State Neighbourhood Security watch to the hinterlands. Addressing Journalist in Abakaliki, some of the women express anger over the criminal activities of some herders who take advantage of innocent and harmless women in the farm. The Spokesperson of the women, Mrs. Christiana Igboke stated that it has become very unsafe for women and girls to now go to the farm all by themselves as the farm is no longer safe again. Mrs. Igboke noted that some hoodlums disguising as “fulani herdsmen” move freely in the rural communities and take advantage of women and girls who innocently goes to the farm to cultivate and fend for their families. The women noted with dismay that the criminals who are always armed with all kinds of weapons, would molest, maim, rape and even destroy farmlands and call on the State government to find a lasting solution to the problem. “Just two weeks ago, a boy of 20 years overpowered one Mrs. Mary Okereke and raped her to death. It has become so worrisome. Our women can no longer go to the farm freely, there is fear but they cant sit down at home and watch their children die of hunger. Our worry is that our women and girls are mostly their target. “In as much the Governor has set up the Neighbourhood Security Watch in all the villages and wards and the law enforcement agencies doing their job, we expect that more needs to be done to tackle the ugly activities of the criminals. Also reacting to the ugly incident, a lawyer, Mrs. Ifeoma Oti stated that the lives of residents of the state are no longer safe adding that despite the directive of the Governor that no herdsman should be seen with machete, they still parade even the capital city with such dangerous objects. “It is so disheartening that a young boy of 20 years would see a woman old enough to be her mother in the farm, walk to her, overpower her, raped her until she gave up the ghost. It is abominable and should be condenmed by all and sundry”. “We just learnt that he has been remanded in prison custody, there has been several cases of rape against women and girls that are unresolved. Mrs. Okereke is gone and gone forever. What becomes of the family she left behind. The stigma that a boy of 20 years raped her to death in the farm”. “There is the need for the State government through the traditional rulers to brace up to the challenge of safeguarding our women who toil day and night to fend for their families. “Many women who want to go to the farm are scared because of the cases of rape. They have to wait to be escorted to the farm in their own land because of fear of the unknown”. The women urged the state government to always interface with the leaders of herdsmen to fish out the bad eggs amongs them and also advise them to monitor the activities of the younger ones who out of drug abuse would perpetrate such crime. They added that there is also the need to sensitize females in the rural communities to be very wary of people around their environment. Ends.o