For the past seven months that Governor Dapo Abiodun has assumed office in Ogun State, governance has been taken to another level in the Gateway State. MUYIWA OYINLOLA reports. Not many Nigerians would easily forget the incident that happened in Ogun State shortly after the incumbent governor, Dapo Abiodun, assumed office some months ago in 2019. On the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway, some pastors of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) had been kidnapped, but the governor was attending a retreat in Abuja. He asked President Muhammadu Buhari’s permission to leave the meeting, got the president to release a helicopter for aerial surveillance, and headed back to his base. Within a few hours, seeing the artillery mounted in the skies, the assailants panicked, and all the hostages were rescued. This event, just one out of very many, is an eloquent testimony to the fact that governance style has changed in Ogun state. Many believe that the swift response of Abiodun at that point in time stands him out as a responsive and humane leader. Security, as everyone knows, is the raison d’etre of the state, yet it is a fact that when Abiodun resumed at Oke Mosan Government House, it was clear that law enforcement agencies did not have good equipment in place, meaning that the state’s Commissioner of Police could not readily engage his counterparts in the military or Department of State Service (DSS). Governance being problem-solving, Abiodun did not whine about this, he set to work immediately, sourcing and providing the needed equipment. He also purchased 100 vehicles and 200 motorcycles to aid the police in their work. It is noteworthy that in the neighbouring Lagos state between 1995 and 1997, car snatchers from neigbouring Republic of Benin put Lagos under siege, it was to Abiodun that the state turned for relief. His two major interventions, the vehicle tracking system and Alarm Network, an initiative that led to the Rapid Response Squad project, quickly passed the message that there would be no escape route for robbers, even as the criminally-minded in Ogun state must be finding out right now. The Ogun helmsman apparently does not subscribe to the pernicious practice of window-dressing state capitals while leaving other parts of the state are left to rot. Through the newly set up Ogun State Public Works Agency, roads are now being renovated that were hitherto a nightmare to motorists, and this is being done simultaneously in all the local government areas of the state. Go to Otta, go to Ifo, go to Abeokuta; the roads are being worked on with renewed vigour, especially now that the rainy season is gone. Again, it is doubtful that any right-thinking person would find fault with the rehabilitation of 236 schools, one school per ward across the state. He the revoked the N3,700 education levy per pupil, thereby alleviating the suffering of parents in the state. In the last seven months, the Ogun governor has approved the years 2016 and 2017 promotion of 10,000 teachers, resolved the MAPOLY crisis and ensured its re-accreditation; implemented the recommendations of the visitation panel on the Tai Solarin College of Education (TASCE) and established a Government Delivery Unit for Education. The job portal which seems to be giving critics nightmares was put up to determine the number of underemployed and unemployed youths in Ogun State. Within three weeks, it recorded over 120 names. Businesses operating in the state post vacancies on the portal, and a local content law is afoot that will stipulate that a certain minimum of companies’ staff must be Ogun State indigenes. Besides, skills acquisition centres have been set up across the state, the first being the Tech Hub in Kobape, Abeokuta. The technology hubs have been set up to rejig ICT across the state and enhance the ease of doing business. In fact, the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy rated Ogun as the best state in ICT penetration and adoption. In any case, in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Anchor Borrowers Scheme is on course to produce Ogun agripreneurs. A total of10,000 youths harvested from the job portal and allocated a hectare of land each, with the documents attached to the lands, have begun slowly to build wealth. The CBN has provided funding (N1.5bn), and will pay the agricpreneurs stipends until the harvest. Stage two of the plan will engage another 30,000 over the next three months, so that in the next two years, about 200,000 agricpreneurs would have been created. Providing food for people through a project that attracts a zero digit interest rate shows that Governor Abiodun certainly did his homework before coming to Government House, and will not be among those praised for a few months, only to receive condemnation for the rest of history. In the health sector, the Abiodun administration has given dilapidated hospitals a facelift and set up more resident primary health centres, again per ward, so that people can enjoy health services without travelling miles away from home. At the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital, the recruitment process for all categories and cadres of healthcare professionals (doctors, nurses, pharmacists, lab scientists, radiographers, etc) has already commenced; the State Hospital Ilaro, has been refurbished; and free medical outreach held at Ilishan, Odeda and Ilaro, addressing polio, diabetes, malaria, eyes, malaria, typhoid and other issues. To ensure accountability and prudence in the management of government resources, including the implementation of the medium term expenditure framework for budget preparation, Abiodun established the Fiscal Responsibility Commission for prudent financial mgt of state resources; efficient allocation of public expenditure, revenue and debt management; and long-term economic stability. It established the Public Private Partnership (PPP) Office and implemented staff biometrics and payroll audit and treasury management solution for single view and efficiency in treasury and payment processing, and a Bureau of Public Procurement Council has come on board, too. Moreover, it is a fact that for the most part, state chief executives and cabinet members have prepared budgets lacking the crucial connectivity with the socio-economic needs of the populace. In line with the paradigm shift that has hallmarked his administration so far, the Ogun State governor obtained the inputs of critical stakeholders in all the three senatorial districts in the state. As he noted, “We strongly believe that governance should be a participatory process and an inclusive one. Achieving the Ogun State of our dreams will require the inputs of all; it is our belief that the people should have a say on issues that concern them and they should, therefore, be allowed to take their rightful place in the governance process.” The Ogun State Business Environment Council is now in place to improve and streamline the state’s internal processes towards achieving better scores in the ease of doing business ranking. The Enterprise Development Agency (EDA) is for capacity building and facilitation of financing access to support the MSMEs sector. There is of course the Ogun State Economic Transformation Project Implementation Structures, part of the requirements for the establishment of Project Steering Committee (PSC), Project Implementation Unit (PIU) for the $250m World Bank loan. The state ggovernment under Abiodun initiated a creative arts and entertainment hub in conjunction with Shared Agent Network Expansion Facility Limited (SANEF) to further deepen development at the grassroots. Also, 50 units of housing at Hilltop Estate Abeokuta, the 200 low-income mass housing units project at Ibara areas of Abeokuta; and the newly established Ogun Sports Commission geared towards youth development. 1,000 Widows were empowered through the ‘OkowoDapo’ loan programme, starting with 2,000 initial beneficiaries. On the issue of appointing his commissioners, the circumstances of the governor’s emergence must be taken into account. It was a rainbow coalition that brought him to power and it would be unfair not to accommodate the various groups in the commissionership and other lists. Worried by high prevalence of bad roads across the state, no sooner had Abiodun assumed office than the executive arm of government  sponsored and sent a Bill for the establishment of Ogun State Public Works Agency to the State House of Assembly. The Bill has been passed and assented to, and the agency has since swung into action by carrying out several palliative measures on bad roads to ameliorate the sufferings of people. The agency, aside the visible palliative works, has also embarked on reconstruction of some major roads in the three senatorial districts, stretching over 30km. Political pundits believe that with the pace Governor Abiodun is working, Ogun State will be a completely new place in few years to come.