Over 100 houses have been razed and properties destroyed following renewed communal crisis that erupted between the Ihiarev and Kparev settlers in Tyo- Mu, a suburb in Makurdi the Benue State capital. This is even as two persons have been allegedly wounded and more than two thousand persons displaced in the crisis which was said to have started as a result of a disagreement between brick layers and a committee set by the community leaders to collect levy from the bricks layers. Our correspondent gathered that the crisis had started when the bricks layers shunned the directives by the host community (Ihiarev) to stop moulding blocks from the area for none remittance of levy. It was further learnt that the brick layers who are mostly settlers are claiming that the land which they are using to do their business was acquired by their fore fathers and nobody has the right to stop them. In a comment, the representative of Makurdi South at the Benue State house of Assembly, Terwase Aondoakaa in an interview with newsmen, said he got wind of the dispute some weeks back and made several attempts to bring peace to the two factions but all failed. According to him, the problem started when the new traditional ruler in the areas set a committee to collect remittance from brick layers in the area for him but the former district head was also collecting the same levy from brick layers in the area until his death. Speaking with newsmen after undertaking an assessment tour of the destroyed area, secretary to the state government, Prof. Anthony Ijohor, frowned at the magnitude of destruction, noting that it is unexpected and embarrassing to the state The SSG, who was at the affected area to make on the spot assessment of damage cause by the crisis, warned those fermenting trouble in the area to desist from doing so and urged members of the community to identify those behind the attack.  He however asked those affected by the crisis not to go on reprisal, but allow security agents who have been posted to the area to do their job.  “This is very bad and it must stop. We cannot, as a government, allow this kind of barbaric act to continue in this state and we condemn it totally.  “For the victims, I implore you to remain calm and not take laws into your hands by embarking on reprisal attack. Security agents have been deployed to the area so you must cooperate with them and allow them to do their job,” he added.  Earlier, the district head of Mbawur/Mbayongo Makurdi local government area, Chief Peter Tor Abaka, said all efforts to ensure that the dispute did not degenerate into crises fell on deaf ears. The district head also denied any involvement of traditional chiefs in the crisis.