The managing director/chief executive officer of Shelter Afrique Kenya, Mr Andrew Chimphondah has promised to collaborate with Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) and Family Homes Fund (FHF) in crashing the cost of housing in Nigeria. This is even as he expressed his commitment in revitalising FMBN adding that Shelter Afrique has approved decent and affordable housing for all in Africa. He disclosed this in Abuja during his presentation on Housing Development and Financing Options at a sensitisation forum on lands, housing and urban development multilateral programmes of collaboration, organised by the federal ministry of works and housing. Shelter Afrique is the only Pan African housing development and finance institution committed to facilitating and financing affordable housing delivery across Africa. Chimphondah said that the over 17 million housing deficit in Nigeria is an opportunity to grow the economy by injecting over N56 trillion, based on average price of N3.5 million per unit, stating that it would complement the country’s Vision 20:2020 which envisaged that the housing sector would contribute 15 percent to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He regretted that housing shortage moved from 17 to 22 million in Nigeria and 52 to 56 million in Africa, saying that to reduce the deficit, that there is a need to partner with institutions like FMBN to increase the delivery of housing mortgages. To this end, he revealed that the institution is committed to aiding significant growth in Nigeria and to invest more than US$180 million, or equivalent of N 650.9 billion through lines of credit to financial institutions, to support the issuance of mortgages and provide construction finance for Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) projects. This he noted was in line with the institutions 2019-2023 strategic plan that would help to reduce the housing deficit and increase the supply of affordable housing units to above 100,000 units annually. The managing director hinted that the board approved the disbursement of lines of credit of $16 million to two major financial institutions in Nigeria last year and are also working to invest over $180 million to other financial institutions. He maintained that the firm, which is headquartered in Nairobi has completed about 17,572 housing projects in member countries, stressing that the cumulative loan approvals of the organisation in 2019 was $1.174bn. In his address, the minister of state for works and housing, Abubakar Aliyu, said that the provision of houses for citizens in any nation was vital, saying that rapid urbanisation experienced across the world had posed life-changing concerns that should be adequately managed. Aliyu added, “Its scale and dimension have severe significant on social, cultural, economic and environmental consequences that have impacted on all spheres of our lives in one way or the other”. The minister emphasized that in the face of the increasing challenges and opportunities brought about by the phenomenon that it’s important for government and private sector to scale-up actions. He noted that there is a need to leverage on the technical expertise and support that development partners at both national and global levels could lend to the process. Aliyu informed that there are lots of advantages derived from effective partnership, stating that the event was an opportunity to review preparations for the forthcoming 10th World Urban Forum. 