Insurance business in Nigeria needs the right regulatory environment to thrive and the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has assured insurance operators of the needed regulatory support to succeed in their endeavour. ZAKA KHALIQ writes. Businesses, the world over, thrive and succeed under the right operating environment. When the operating environment is tough, businesses suffocate, while some close shops. To create a friendly business environment, it takes the right policies anchored on ensuring that businesses are not exposed to unnecessary conditions that will threaten their survival. To this end, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has identified major initiatives aimed at providing conducive business atmosphere for insurance business to thrive, especially, in the current year. The Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Thomas, who unveiled the initiatives at the 2020 NAICOM seminar for insurance journalists in Kano, Kano state, recently, stated that the Commission is shifting focus from compliance issues to emphasize more on its market developmental responsibility. “As the year 2020 continues to unfold, giant strides will be made by the Commission in all aspects of its statutory responsibilities. This is the time to put the past behind us and look forward to a better and more vibrant sector. The task of building an insurance sector of our dreams is a collective one and thus, all hands must be on deck to ensure our dreams become realities,” he said. Conducive Regulatory Environment Stating that the commission recognises the impact of conducive work environment to effective and efficient regulatory system, he said it will always remain NAICOM’s priority. Thomas, at the seminar, disclosed that the second phase of the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI) will soon be unveiled and that the regulatory body will mark out clear targets and tasks for all stakeholders in the insurance industry. According to him, “Going forward, we shall vigorously pursue the continued implementation of Compulsory Insurances in every nook and crannies of the country. We are certainly not unaware of the challenges inhibiting the successful implementation of these classes of insurance thus far hence, our resolve to work with relevant stakeholders to ensure a seamless drive.” While stating that the successful implementation of compulsory classes of insurance across the nation will ensure adequate protection of strategic National Assets, he promised that the commission will be working with relevant security agencies to guarantee effective and efficient monitoring of compliance. On the ongoing recapitalisation exercise, he said, the essence of the recapitalisation is a move to ensure that insurance industry becomes more robust in its technical competence and financial base, building confidence, trust and enhancing market value. This, he stressed, is aimed at repositioning the sector for self-actualisation in terms of growth and development. Stressing that the financial inclusion strategy has been central to the Federal Government developmental plan, he said, the commission, has, over the years, invested hugely in the development of financial inclusion mechanisms which includes the introduction of Micro-insurance and Takaful Insurance products. The commission shall continue to deploy more energy and resources in building public trust and confidence in insurance despite years of poor perception, he promised. Review of Existing Guidelines on Annuity Similarly, the deputy director/head, Research, Statistics & Strategy Directorate, NAICOM, Mr. Gbolahan Adewale Suleiman, disclosed that the two regulators, that is, the National Pension Commission(PenCom) and NAICOM are reviewing the existing regulations on Annuity Business, which, he said, is gradually attracting the needed attention from retirees. He believes that, as more workers in both public and private sectors begin to retire, it is expected that the number of subscribers to Annuity plan would gradually rise, thereby, making the business another lucrative revenue generating window for life insurance operators in the country. Earlier, Thomas said, annuity business making headlines recently with a boost in the contribution of the business to the sector. The public, he added, is becoming more exposed and knowledgeable about the workings of Annuity, expecting that this will continue as the future is looking very bright for annuity business. This has also shown a positive growth in trust and confidence in the insurance sector, he pointed out. Life annuity is a stream of periodic payments that commences at a specified date, which is either the normal retirement age or at 50 in the case of early retirement. This payment could either be monthly or quarterly depending on the retiree’s preference. Licence Renewal for Brokers, Loss Adjusters Meanwhile, NAICOM has extended licencing renewal period for Insurance Brokers and Loss Adjusters from one year to two years.The two-year new licencing regime is expected to commence from April 2020. Speaking at the seminar, the director, Policy and Regulation Directorate, NAICOM,  Pius Agboola, disclosed that the commission had a fortnight released the guideline for the implementation of the initiative. “Following series of complaints and challenges from brokers and loss adjusters to renew their licenses annually, we have decided to extend it to two-year renewal period. We have released the guideline and implementation will commence in April 2020,” he said. Some brokers had, in the past, fall prey of the annual license renewal as their licenses were withdrawn because they could not meet the annual deadline. But with the two-year renewal period set to take effect, market analysts said, this will give more time for brokers and loss adjusters to perfect their books and operation for renewals, while reducing the number of licenses that would be withdrawn as a result of failure to meet the renewal deadline. Liquidation of 2 Insurance Firms In the same vein, the regulatory body is set to liquidate two troubled insurance companies, that is, Investment and Allied Assurance Plc and Spring Life Assurance. To this end, the commission has appointed Odion Unuakhe as the receiver/liquidator to wind up Investment and Allied Insurance. NAICOM’s secretary/legal adviser, Dr. Talmiz Usman, further disclosed that the commission had, on August 6, 2018, cancelled the licence of Investment and Allied Assurance. In February 2011, NAICOM assumed control of the firm to stem the tide of fraudulent practices, leading to corporate governance failure and  lapses. He said, NAICOM removed the company’s executive management team and replaced it with an interim management. Shortly after, it engaged a firm of chartered accountants to probe the company’s affairs and the accounts. According to him, NAICOM’s audit uncovered about N14.7 billion realised from the private placement made by the company between 2006 and 2008 that was not accounted for. Usman said: “We appointed two receiver managers in 2018. One is Investment and Allied Assurance. It has been troubled for quite some time.The trouble started during the last recapitalisation of insurance companies in 2007. The company did a Private Placement Offer (IPO). At the end, we didn’t know where the money raised from the IPO was put into. We found that some billions were diverted. “The second company whose license has been cancelled and under receiver/liquidator is Spring Life. It is a Life company and the law says you don’t liquidate the company immediately. First of all, you have to transfer the Life portfolio of the company and the second thing is to transfer the asset to another Life insurance company. So, we are the stage where Investment and Allied and Spring Life are under receivership”, he added. Stakeholders View While the regulatory body has made several unfulfilled promises in the past, market observers charged the commission to work the talk this time around by creating a regulatory environment that will make insurance business thrive in the country. Although, there seems to be a glimpse of hope in the implementation of those promises, judging from the antecedent of the man at the helms of affairs of the commission, insurance stakeholders called on the commission to protect the policyholders by sanctioning companies that refused to pay genuine claims, ensure compliance to the right pricing of insurance products, while ensuring that the industry is fully digitalised to provide effective, efficient and seamless services to the insured.