No one can predict the future, but it can at least be glimpsed in the technological innovations that’s gradually changing the world. In report, VICTOR OKEKE writes on how technology, in the form of medical drones, can help improve health care services in Nigeria. Way back in 2007, medical teams supported by the World Health Organisation, WHO, set up mobile clinics in hard to access areas of north-eastern Nigeria. The teams are called ‘Hard-To-Reach’ teams (HTR) because their mission is to reach remote and insecure areas to provide urgently needed care to residents of such areas who are deprived of essential health services. The decade-long conflict in that part of the country has caused widespread forced displacement and acute food and nutrition insecurity. Large areas of Borno State, the most-affected state, remains inaccessible to humanitarian assistance. The years of violent conflict in north-eastern Nigeria have deprived millions of people of even the most basic of health care services. The full scale of the humanitarian crisis begins to be revealed as towns and villages, previously occupied by armed groups and gradually becoming more accessible. Malnutrition is widespread and nearly six million men, women, children and infants urgently need health assistance. Two-thirds of hospitals, clinics and other health facilities in the most affected states have been completely or partially damaged. Those that are functioning are often difficult to access and if reached, are short of health-care staff, lack basic medical equipment and medicines and seldom have access to safe water. As a result, the mobile teams set-up makeshift clinics under the shade of trees. Humanitarian partners are scaling up their response to the crisis, but with ongoing insecurity, reaching those in need in remote communities or internal displacement camps can be difficult and dangerous. Elsewhere in the southern parts of Nigeria where there is no insurgency, inadequate public and private transport, inadequate healthcare facility, delay in transfer of patients’ as a result poor roads and lack of communication are the major problems confronting health workers in the states. Globally, the distribution of health care is notoriously uneven. Remote rural areas do not get their fair share of resources and attempts to attract healthcare professionals to work in rural areas to redress this imbalance have only been partially successful. There is no doubt therefore that an alternative approach is needed. The world over, the same medical practice that is proving so difficult here in Nigeria has been bolstered by technological advances that lend themselves to rural application more readily than the redeployment of healthcare personnel. One example is the burgeoning use of diagnostic technologies such as molecular testing. Technology is not only used for diagnosis but also to guide which therapeutic options are likely to be effective. A cargo-carrying drone service could also be used to support remote areas with medical supplies including pharmaceuticals and vaccines. In testing for tuberculosis, a simple DNA based test can provide both an unambiguous diagnosis and microbicidal sensitivity profile at a single stroke. This spares the patient the need to see a doctor to make the diagnosis before therapy can be initiated. And it obviates the fruitless therapeutic trial of agents that will not be effective. The advent of cell phone networks has significantly aided the way results are transmitted from the laboratory to the clinic. But this is obviously not applicable to physically transporting samples. A cargo-carrying drone service could also be used to support remote areas with medical supplies such as point of care testing materials and therapeutic agents including pharmaceuticals, blood, sera and vaccines, Barry Mendelow, an Emeritus Professor of Pathology, University of the Witwatersrand said in an article published in Quartz Africa. Professor Mendelow said: “Relying on new technology for effective health care in remote areas is still critically reliant on effective logistic support to transport samples to the nearest laboratory capable of performing the test, and to transmit the result back to the clinic.” There are two alternatives to drones: land-based transport in the form of motorbikes or cars and air-based transport such as helicopters. Air transport by helicopter is very expensive and dangerous while land-based transport is vulnerable to the state of the roads, which are frequently impassable in developing countries. Using cars also means that longer distances must be covered, compared to a straight-line route enabled by air. A conceptual alternative to the logistic problem is so-called near patient testing point of care centres at clinics. The equipment to perform the test is located and operated at the rural clinic itself. But this is expensive to implement and difficult to operate. According to Dr Chukwuemeka Victor Alozie of the University Nigeria Teaching Hospital Enugu, there are no structures on ground in rural areas that drones can be linked to. But he suggests that medical drones hold lots of promise in reversing Nigeria’s negative healthcare indices from the rapid transportation of lifesaving medications like anti-venom to the delivery of vaccines to hard-reach areas. “Even in agriculture, drones can be used in delivering pesticides over a large area with minimal human energy and cost,” Alozie said. Experts suggest that creating a legislative framework that will enable the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to legitimise cargo carrying drones will be a way forward. The second is recruiting and training suitable drone operators, preferably from local communities. For example, Emmanuel Ezenwere, the founder of Arone, a Nigerian startup, is changing the personalised drone delivery system in Nigeria, particularly in the area of healthcare. The project was incubated when he visited Lagos and met Temie Giwa-Tubosun, the founder of Life Bank, a startup working to improve access to blood transfusions in the country. “I started thinking about the impact it would have if we were able to assist them by using drones to deliver blood much quicker to people that need it so desperately. So that was when the idea came,” he told This Is Africa. Using a smart aerial logistics technology empowered with artificial intelligence and renewable sources of energy, Arone is bridging the gap between rural and urban health care centres by setting up drone delivery stations at blood banks and medical supplies distribution centres to provide a faster delivery of vital medical products to neighbouring rural and urban clinics on demand. Arone’s team is made up of six individuals with background in different tech fields including engineering, software development and design, all brought together by Ezenwere. According to him, he had worked with them on previous projects hence, when he conceived the idea for Arone, he reached out to them and they were just as excited as he was. Regarding funding, Arone received about $5000 in March last year from three angel investors at the Roar Nigeria incubator at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, where it is currently incubating. According to TIA, a large percentage of that funding has been invested in obtaining the inventory and equipment for building drones, including a 3D printer for rapid prototyping. In the developed world civil aviation authorities are imposing increasingly arduous legislative restrictions on drones. These are considered necessary to reduce the risk of accidents and the use of drones for nefarious purposes. In these countries they are mainly used for military purposes. But there are many examples of peaceful cargo-carrying drones that are used for a host of disparate purposes such as surveillance, aerial photography, agriculture, remote monitoring, crime prevention, medical functions and many others. Obviously, the developing world is more in need of drones as a viable means of leapfrogging over infrastructural inadequacies. This might narrow the gap between developed and developing worlds. Hopefully, in the future, small indoor drones could deliver medicine to the bedside of a patient from the pharmacy, thus eliminating some human steps. This would lead to more rapid and less error prone administration of medications. Nurses and pharmacists can work more efficiently as supplies can be summoned to the bedside instead of the time-consuming task of gathering necessary items. But for a start in Nigeria, drones will make it possible to deliver blood, vaccines, birth control, snake bite serum and other medical supplies to rural areas and have the ability to reach victims who require immediate medical attention within minutes. This, in some cases could mean the difference between life and death.