Economic and transport experts have differed on the N123 billion budgetary provision for the transport sector. While some said it was not enough, others commended the federal government for the allocation to a critical sector like transport. Chairman, Nigerian Ports Consultative Council, Otunba Kunle Folarin stated that the provision was insufficient for the transport infrastructure development outlined for 2020. He said: “For the transport sector, the N123 billion allocated is insufficient when considering the massive rail projects and others sub-sectors of transportation in dire need of finance”, he said, warning that Foreign Direct Investment (FDIs) would be more difficult to attract as the concept of globalisation had changed around the world.’’ The chief executive officer, Quiet Dimensions Limited, Mr. Ime Udoma lamented that budgeting in Nigeria was always distinct from the implementation. “The N123 billion may not be sufficient given the numerous transport infrastructural needs, but it would be sufficient if invested sincerely and precisely in a sub-sector like the rail,” he said. According to him, a significant development of the nation’s rail system with the available budget would take a chunk of the cars and trucks off the roads, thereby making the roads more durable. “I would suggest that the Transport Ministry focuses on the rail development this year. The chunk of the money should go to the rail. “From Lagos to Calabar can be done in three hours with light rail. The distance is similar to Manchester to London in the United Kingdom. The rail transport is cheap and it could mean people can live in Calabar and work in Lagos,” he said. Managing director, Nigerian Railway Corporation Engr. Fidet Okhiria however commended government over current deliberate efforts to develop the rail sector saying it was the first time that such a huge amount of money is allocated to the transport sector. He stated further that amount budgeted will help to kick start the Ibadan to Ilorin axis of standard gauge railway line after completion of the Lagos to Ibadan axis linking the seaport at Apapa. According to him rail development will help boost economic growth as people can reside in Ibadan and work in Ibadan while heavy duty goods and containers can be evacuated by rail to the hinterland. Executive Secretary of Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) Mr. Hassan Bello said that the 2020 budgetary provision was an affirmation that the government had realized the crucial role of transportation in economic development.