The Nigerian Army has said that it arrested 35 suspected criminals and recovered two Ak 47 rifles and 109 locally made guns with 345 cartridges. Other contraband items which the army also recovered from the suspected criminals include 2×7.62mm special task ammunition and one pump action riffle. Speaking at the camp fire night yesterday, which is part of the activities to mark the end of operation crocodile smile IV in  13 brigade area of operation in Ikang Community, (about fifty kilometers away from the capital city of Calabar) in  Bakassi local government area, Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt. Gen. Tukur Brutai lauded the soldiers for the stride made in sustenance of the operation. The COAS who was represented at the ceremony by Commandant, Amphibious Training School Calabar, Brig. Gen. JY Nimmyel stated that the exercise which has recorded a huge success couldn’t have been possible without the willingness and determination of the soldiers to succeed, stressing that it tremendously helped to curtail threats in the area of armed banditry, kidnapping, cultism and gross reduction of several other forms of criminal activities that hitherto posed a threat to the security of the state. The army boss lauded the 13th brigade for its professionalism particularly the super camp concept as well as sister agencies for working in synergy with one another to make the exercise a success. “The Operation Crocodile Smile 4 was slightly different from other exercise with the introduction of the Super Camp concept which was designed for us to defend ourselves in force and attack in force”, the army boss maintained. The commandant averred that the concept introduced by the Brigade has been expanded to other areas like Operation Lafia Doyle and hailed the officers for putting all their very best towards the success of the operation. In his earlier remarks, Commander 13 Brigade, Brig. Gen. OT Olatoye, stated that the exercise was designed to enhance security in Cross River State, tackle banditry, cultism, kidnapping, communal clashes and other related crimes. He said that the exercise was supposed to end in the 23rd of December 2019 but was extended to January 2020 so as to further protect the state, safeguard lives and property as well as ensure a smooth Calabar Carnival with other security agencies.