The federal government and governors of the South West states have reached a truce on the raging controversy over the latter’s establishment of the Western Nigeria Security Organisation code named “Amotekun.” After a meeting presided over by Vice President  Yemi Osinbajo, which was attended by the affected governors, the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) and the inspector-general of police (IGP), Adamu Mohammed, the parties agreed to come up with a legal framework for the outfit in line with the community policing of the federal government The meeting held at the presidential villa, Abuja, was at the instance of the governors, who had requested to see President Muhmmadu Buhari. The vice president’s spokesman, Laolu Akande, who issued a statement on the outcome of the meeting, explained that the governors had asked to see President Buhari on the controversy surrounding the “Amotekun” initiative. Akande said that due to the president’s foreign engagement, he directed Osinbajo to host the parley. He said that the meeting was very fruitful, adding that unanimous resolutions were made on the way forward. According to him, “having regard to the need for all hands to be on deck in addressing the security concerns across the country, it was agreed that the structure of ‘Amotekun’ should also align with the community policing strategy of the federal government. “It was also agreed that necessary legal instruments will be put in place by each of the states to give legal backing to the initiative and address all issues concerning the regulation of the security structure,” he said. Also, in an interaction with State House correspondents after the deliberations, Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), said that the South West states were going to have a legal framework to back ‘Amotekun’. He stated: “So, we have rubbed minds and all of us have agreed on the way forward. The most important one is that we are going to have a legal framework to back this ‘Amotekun’. “And this legal framework is going to be one which we all are going to look at and will be sure to go without any hindrance,” he added. Asked if the outfit had been put on hold until the legal framework was developed, governor Akeredolu replied: “No! What I believe is our resolution is that ‘Amotekun’ is there, you know the federal government is starting community policing, in essence it is really about community. So, we are going to work together to see the community policing and ‘Amotekan’ work in a way.” On why there was no such consultation before the launch of the outfit, he said that “there were consultations, don’t say there were no consultations. There were consultations because we held discussions with the inspector-general of police (IGP) then and what has developed is what has led to this. We just felt that with all the noise outside, it is better for us to sit down and talk. “Remember that immediately the noise started, I said that we are going to explore a political solution and all of us are here, my colleagues, the deputy governor of Oyo State, who is of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), all of us are here. So, we have looked at the solutions to it now, both political and legal solutions, and all of us will do it. On what he would tell those protesting that the federal government was out to stop “Amotekun”, he said that it was not true that the government was trying to stop the outfit. He said that “the attorney-general of the federation has spoken on that and I’m sure you have all read the statement that he was misinterpreted. So, it’s so clear that there was no time that the federal government wanted to stop ‘Amotekun’ and the AGF having spoken, it’s all about us; so there is no problem.” Prior to the meeting, Malami had in a statement he issued insisted that “Amotekun” was illegal because it was not supported by extant laws. The minister said that the sudden change of stance on “Ametokun” by Lagos lawyer, Mr Femi Falana (SAN) had vindicated him He said that by asking the state governments to “proceed to enact the necessary laws” in justifying the legality of the establishment and operation of ‘Amotekun’, Mr. Femi Falana is reaffirming and reiterating the federal government’s stance that the establishment of the operation currently is illegal.” In the statement issued by his special assistant on media and public relations, Dr. Jubrilu Gwandu, the minister, who spoke earlier in the day Radio Nigeria programme, “Nationwide Politics,” had insisted that regional security architectural arrangement by the states was not tolerated by the country’s constitution. Malami said: “The planning, execution, consummation of whatever security arrangement must be naturally grounded in law, rooted in the constitution and tolerated by the law. ”For any arrangement to stand within the law, the bottom line is that constitutionality and legality must be factored. Provided that there is an aberration relating to constitutional compliance, I think the right thing to do is to ensure constitutionality and legality both in spirit, planning, concept, and consummation. “If you are talking of regional arrangement, for example, at what point did the state assemblies come together as a region for the purpose of coming up with a statue or a law that can operate within the context of the constitution taking into consideration the federating arrangement that does not allow or tolerate a regional state House of Assembly arrangement,” he added. South West Attorneys To Meet On Legal Framework For Amotekun Meanwhile, the attorneys-general of the six South West states have agreed to meet on the necessary legal framework for the outfit. The affected states are Ogun, Ondo, Lagos, Oyo, Osun, and Ekiti. The meeting was reportedly fixed for yesterday but was postponed to await the outcome of the deliberations between the governors and the presidency in Abuja. It was learnt that chief law officers of the six states would examine the legal aspects of “Amotekun” in relation to the Nigerian constitution and the statutory security agencies. The meeting will also decide if there is need to enact a law to back the outfit in every state or otherwise. Amotekun was launched on January 9, 2020 at the Governor’s Office, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. But it was declared illegal by Malami, who said that it was incongruent with the Nigerian constitution and pointed out that his office was not carried along in the process of establishing it. Since Malami’s declaration, lawyers and opinion leaders have argued that each state should have provided legal backing for the outfit because the governors are the chief security officers of their states.