The Pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, the Afenifere on Thursday, urged southwest governors not to bow to any pressure against the wish of the people of the region. The group who declared that the Operation Amotekun had come to stay in the region to fight the insecurity that is facing the Yorubaland in the recent time, also condemned the action of the Federal Government which declared the operation illegal, through the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami. Speaking with journalists at his residence in Akure, the Ondo State capital, the Afenifere leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti ,applauded the South West governors for the initiative . Fasoranti said, “Operation Amotekun is a welcome development, but they were being asked not to do it. The Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, insisted that they would do it. ” I want them to go ahead and do it in the interest of our people; we cannot leave ourselves here, and be helpless in the face of incessant onslaught.” While condemning the pronouncement made by the Minister for Justice, Fasoranti disclosed that the minister was talking the minds of the people in the Presidency. According to Fasoranti, silence of the Presidency on the matter meant they were behind the minister. ” I think he is talking for somebody. Silence means consent, he is talking the mind of the presidency that is what they want. It confirms the suspicion that they are trying to protect some interests here in the South-West. I agree with that too, so that they can go on and do what they like with impunity. It is unfortunate” Fasoranti said. Urging the governors to go ahead with the project, the Afenifere leader said the governors should not be intimidated by the federal government pronouncement, saying ” It is very bad to leave our people helpless, defenceless and without any succor; without any protection.” He added, “Though Afenifere has not met on this but I am speaking their mind; their mind is that they ( the governors) should go ahead. The governors should speak with one voice and go ahead. I am speaking for the Yoruba elders too, they should go ahead.”