The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the 2016 Governorship Election in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede SAN, has declared that he is recontesting the forthcoming governorship election in the state this time to win. Jegede made the declaration at a consultation meetings with the party leaders in Ese-Odo ,Ilaje, Okitipupa and Odigbo local governments areas of the state. Addressing the mammoth crowd that trooped out to welcome him and his entourage, Jegede noted that he his contesting the 2020 governorship election in the state so as to bring lasting solutions to the problems confronting the state. The former Attorney General of the state said, “I am in this race not to dissipate every energy on becoming the candidate, and afterwards fail to give all it takes to win the governorship contest. I am not struggling to be a candidate but to be the governor. “As a member of this great party, I am contesting because our people are again asking for an improved re-enactment of the PDP stellar years of service and comfort, I am contesting because I am capable, and because God said I should go ahead, so this aspiration is anchored on God.” While thanking the people for coming out in their numbers to receive him and his entourage, Jegede, however, assured them of his continued love and respect for the Party stakeholders in all the local governments visited. Earlier, the PDP Chairman in Ese-Odo Local Government, Hon. Kola Uga, acknowledged the tremendous contributions of Eyitayo Jegede towards the sustenance of the Party since 2017 that the PDP has been out of power in the State. Uga, however, solicited Jegede’s special support for the party in Ese-Odo and the extension of his magnanimous gestures towards helping the Party in the Local Government play her role as viable opposition. Uga said , “We will require your help to keep our secretariat always open and accessible to members for meetings, in this regard we will need your assistance to help us clear the backlog of our 3 year rent.” Also, in her contribution, the PDP State Women Leader, Chief (Mrs) Esther Ebiwonjumi, advised Eyitayo Jegede not to forget women when God eventually gives him victory, adding that women have been active and will remain active in his campaigns. A party chieftain, Hon. Yayu Sunday said, “I believe in this project because you have the structure, the people, the capability, the capacity, the resources and the backing of the most high to enter the contest and win. Above all you need no fresh introduction to the electorates, because your name is already a household name in Ondo State.”