In its renewed offensive against corruption, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is set to repatriate 18 suspects, it described as “high-profile looters” from various parts of the world. The disclosure came yesterday from the acting EFCC chairman, Mr Ibrahim Magu, who was in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, to assess facilities at the zonal office of the commission. However, Magu did not give the identities of the suspects and the countries they fled to. Magu assured Nigerians that the anti-graft agency would pursue the anti-corruption war with a renewed vigour this year. In an interaction with journalists, Magu said that no ongoing corruption case would be abandoned midway, stressing that the suspects would be charged to court as soon as investigations on their cases were completed. He clarified that the Ilorin zonal office of the EFCC was not established to witch-hunt the immediate past Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, as being alleged. According to him, “we will repatriate all looters hiding anywhere in the world. I think there are about 18 of them; I mean high-profile looters. We did not also establish the Ilorin zonal office to witch-hunt anyone. Kwara State is an integral part of Nigeria and deserves an EFCC office”. He solicited the cooperation of the Nigerian media to enable the commission succeed in its efforts at making country free of corruption. “We need the cooperation of the media in making Nigeria corruption-free. EFCC cannot do it alone,“ Magu declared, adding that „ I feel good as acting EFCC chairman because we are performing and the media can attest to this.”  … Decries UK’s Refusal To Extradite Allison-Madueke Meanwhile, Magu has condemned the refusal of the United Kingdom (UK) to extradite former minister of petroleum resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke, to face trial over alleged money laundering in Nigeria. Magu, according to EFCC spokesman, Tony Orilade, stated this yesterday in Lagos when he received the “Institution of the Decade” award on behalf of the EFCC at an event organised by Thisday Newspaper to mark its 25th anniversary. He said that the commission had sufficient evidence to prosecute Allison-Madueke for the alleged financial malfeasance she committed while in office. The looted funds traced to Allison-Madueke and others, he said, could be used to keep the wheel of the nation’s economy rolling if recovered. “We don’t want to keep chasing everybody as a suspect. We want everybody who has stolen from the commonwealth to bring it back to Nigeria so as to use the monies to provide the needed infrastructure,” he stated. Magu said that the EFCC would build more detention facilities and open additional zonal offices to bring the anti-corruption fight closer to the people. He said that the EFCC attached great value to the award due to the independence of the process that led to the emergence of the EFCC as Editor’s Choice, adding that the award was “a testimony to the fact that the fight against corruption, being spearheaded by the EFCC is on course and must be supported by all Nigerians.” The award, he further said, was a befitting recognition and an appreciation of his contributions and those of his predecessors, adding that “all officers and men of the EFCC have also contributed immensely to this recognition and honour.” While dedicating the award to President Muhammadu Buhari “for showing the political will to fight corruption,” Magu appealed to Nigerians to join the EFCC in the crusade and to make Nigeria great and the envy of the world.  