The recent Supreme Court judgement on the Oyo State governorship election has attracted reactions from various stakeholders, this development has also changed the political equation in the state.  ADEBAYO WAHEED, writes Six months after the governorship election in Oyo State, the legal tussle which ensued between the candidates of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Chief Abdulwaheed Adelabu and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Oluwaseyi Makinde has finally been laid to rest by the Supreme Court judgment which affirmed the validity of the election of Makinde. Makinde had in March 9 governorship election defeated the APC candidate having had the majority of the votes. But not satisfied, Adelabu approached the tribunal which upheld the election of the PDP candidate. Not yet satisfied, Adelabu sought for redress at the Court of Appeal. The judgment from the court nearly threw the state into political confusion, as the judges declined to give definite judgment on the suit challenging the Makinde’s victory at the poll. In its judgement, the appellate court which set aside the judgment of the tribunal, said it failed to address the issues raised in the evidences as presented by the APC candidate. The judgement generated a lot of confusion and controversy as demonstrated by the parties, laying claims to victory. Citing time contrarians, as the 180 days allowed for the hearing of the case which had elapsed, the court declined to give judgment and that the status quo should remain, hence, the need to seek further explanation at the apex court. the Supreme Court however ruled in favour of Makinde, against the decision of the Court of Appeal which earlier ruled against the election tribunal in the state which dismissed a petition by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Adebayo Adelabu The court upturned the decision of the Appeal Court, which said the tribunal was wrong to have dismissed the People Democratic Party (PDP’) petition, adding that the appeal court’s majority judgement setting aside the ruling of the tribunal was not meritorious and deserved to be set aside, and ruled that the minority decision of the Court of Appeal was more deserving of the apex court’s consideration and upheld the minority decision of the Court of Appeal which validated Makinde’s election. Counsel to Governor Makinde,  Wole Olanipekun (SAN), had earlier asked the court to disregard the appeal by All Progressives Congress(APC) candidate, Adebayo Adelabu, saying that his team of lawyers identified that majority of the decisions taken at the tribunal had been based on previous positions of the Supreme Court which were not upturned by the court of appeal. He argued that his client had defeated his opponents in the polls with over 15,700 votes and won in 28 out of 33 local government areas in the state. Twenty four hours after the judgment, hundreds of workers thronged Agodi Government Secretariat to felicitate with Governor Makinde on his Supreme Court victory. The labour leaders in their speeches glorified God for the victory and described Governor Seyi Makinde as a liberator who had come at the right time to set workers free from the yoke of the immediate past administration. Chief of staff to the governor, Chief Bisi Ilaka, who received the workers on behalf of his principal,  assured the labour force in the state of the Governor Makinde’s determination to prioritise  workers and pensioners welfare at all times. Also, the Yoruba Youth Socio-cultural Association (YYSA) was not left out, as it described the verdict as masses favoured judgment, saying that the people of Oyo State have been expecting, waiting anxiously to hear positive news of his victory at the apex court. According to the association, the reason for the Oyo people affectionate is not far-fetched. “Makinde was massively for voted for by the good people of this state and since he becomes governor, he has never derails from his campaign promises. “His free education system matchable with that of Chief Bola Ige administration. No payment of school fees, textbooks and notebooks were given free of charge to all pupils and students in all public schools across the state,” it said. The youth argued that prompt payment of salaries unlike before also contributed to why he’s loved by the civil servants, adding that Makinde character and attitude of fulfilling promises make him a lovesome when compared with the past governor and that is why the supreme court judgement is a victory for Oyo people. “We can confidently say that democracy has gained momentum in Oyo State. We congratulate him and wish in a successful term in office,” the youths said. A former governor of Oyo State, Alhaji Hazeem Gbolarumi, in his reaction, described the judgement as a landmark and a plus for the judiciary and the country’s democracy. Gbolarumi in a statement through Olaniyi Steven Omituntun, said, “It is a great day for democracy. The highest court in the country has finally settled the controversies surrounding the Oyo governorship election and affirmed Governor Makinde as the true winner of the election. He described the apex court ruling as an affirmation of the people’s will as expressed through their votes in the 2019 governorship election in the state. “The ruling  led by Justice Ukaego Merry  Peter-Odili at  the Apex court , as a land mark judgment and a plus for the Judiciary and the Nigerian democracy and it shows that the Nigerian judiciary has indeed come of age”, he said. He praised the governor for standing firm and remaining undaunted while the case lasted and charged him to remain committed to the people and to ensure the delivery of true development through democracy to the people of the state. Gbolarumi expressed confidence that Makinde would certainly accelerate the pace of development in Oyo State, now that there would be no more unnecessary distraction and guarantees that the governor will tackle the welfare of the people and address the security challenges in a measurable and more impactful manner. He, however, urged the APC candidate and challenger, Bayo Adelabu , to accept the judgment in good faith and cooperate with the Governor in the task of making Oyo State, envy of all. While  reacting to the court judgment, the governor’s special adviser, Strategy and Political Matters, Babatunde Oduyoye said that the Supreme Court must be commended for its apparent courage and forthrightness in the face of undue pressure by certain elements to pervert the cause of justice in the election petition matter. Oduyoye, who stated this in Abuja, shortly after the Supreme Court delivered its judgment, which validated the decision of the election petition tribunal to uphold the election of Governor Makinde, declared that the ruling of the apex court further affirmed the fact that the court remained the last hope of the people. According to him, the unanimous judgment by the Supreme Court “confirmed that technicalities cannot take the place of the people’s power and that only the ballot box can determine the fate of political office holders.” “We are happy that the Supreme Court has affirmed what we knew all along- that the people of Oyo State overwhelmingly voted for Governor Seyi Makinde in a free, fair and credible election on March 9, 2019, when they elected him with over 515,621. “Today, the shameless voyage embarked upon by peddlers of lies and desperation in Oyo State politics came to a decisive end with the unanimous judgment of the Supreme Court, which validated the election of Governor Seyi Makinde. “That judgment, in which all seven justices of the apex court agreed with the ruling of the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in Oyo State and the minority judgement of the Court of Appeal, that Governor Makinde had, indeed, won the election and that the All Progressives Congress (APC) failed to prove its case, is a triumph of justice and fairness. It is a vindication of the people, who voted for massively for Governor Makinde. “Now that the people have won, as Governor Makinde’s victory is a victory for the good people of Oyo State, who have been enjoying good times under his leadership, the Governor is prepared to continue to deliver on his promises to the electorate. “The governor deeply appreciates the courage of the judiciary, the support of the Oyo State electorate and everyone who took part in the struggle to ensure that justice and fairness prevailed in the face of the pressures mounted by the opposition politicians to snatch the mandate given to him. “Governor Makinde has, by the show of solidarity and support, been encouraged to continue to deliver excellent service to his State and its people. ”I am overwhelmed by the thousands of goodwill and congratulatory messages that we have received from all quarters as a result of the affirmation of our victory at the polls by the Supreme Court, earlier today. I am delighted that our faith and confidence in the judiciary as the last hope for the oppressed has been rewarded. “We are deeply thankful to you, the people of Oyo State, for your overwhelming support throughout the judicial process. We remain committed to acting in your best interest, as we continue to deliver on our people-centred policies as outlined in our Road Map for Accelerated Development in Oyo State”, he said. Meanwhile, Adelabu  has since congratulated Governor Seyi Makinde, wished him a peaceful, magnanimous and development-focused tenure. Adelabu who gave this advice few hours after the Supreme Court reaffirmed the election of Seyi Makinde as governor of the state, in a statement in Ibadan said that he and his supporters have to move on in the interest of the state. He said he would not stop to contribute his quota, in his personal capacity to the development of the state. “I greet my dear great people of Oyo State. In the last few weeks since the 2019 gubernatorial election petition found itself before the supreme court, our dear state has been gripped with palpable tension.  “But now that the judgement has been given, I strongly believe that the time has come for the state to move forward in order for necessary benefits of democracy to accrue. “As your candidate, after the elections, we took advantage of the law as provided for by the electoral act and moved from the tribunal through to the Appeal Court and finally, the Supreme Court. As the highest court in the land, it is the court of last resort for those looking for justice. “This is not the outcome we wanted or we worked so hard for, and I’m sorry that we did not win this election for the values we share and vision we hold for our dear state. But I feel pride and gratitude for the wonderful opportunity and campaign that we built together, the vast, diverse, creative, energised campaign. “I know how disappointed you feel because I feel it, too. And so do hundreds of thousands of voters who invested their hopes and dreams in this effort and voted for us. “Democracy works when you have a vigorous campaign between competing manifestos to get to that vision. But once the election is over, once all avenue to seek redress for perceived electoral wrongdoing has been exhausted, one side wins and the other side is supposed to hold fire, and let the winner govern on the basis of their vision for the development of the state and let the electorate be the judge of their performance or otherwise. “I know most of our supporters are disappointed. I am too but our disappointment must be overcome by the love for our dear state. This will not in any way, deter me from continuing to contribute my quota, in my personal capacity, to the development of our dear state towards achieving the desired economic emancipation of our people. “I thank you all for your faith and trust in me. I thank our party leadership and all members for their dedication and hard work during and after the elections”, part of the statement read. He urged them not to relent in your support for our great party (APC) as we conclude the genuine reconciliations and party re-building we have all started for sake of desired success as we prepare for future elections. The South-West chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while congratulating Makinde, hailed the verdict of the Supreme Court over the March 9, 2019 governorship election that produced the party’s gubernatorial standard-bearer in Oyo State, Engineer Seyi Makinde as the winner. The party’s zonal publicity secretary, Ayo Fadaka, its national vice chairman, South-West Zone, Dr. Eddy Olafeso; zonal executives leaders and entire members in the zone in a statement congratulated Makinde on the victory at the Supreme Court. The party insisted that in line with its position from the outset that the petition against Makinde’s victory was frivolous and baseless; the judgment of the Supreme Court has consigned the petition to the dust bin. It noted that the decision of the apex court was consistent with the principle of justice administration and the desire of the people of Oyo State, which they expressed on March 9 by massively voting for the PDP. “The National Vice-Chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, the Zonal Executive, leaders, and entire members of the PDP in the Zone hereby congratulate the Governor of Oyo State, His Excellency, Oluseyi Makinde, all members of the PDP in Oyo State and indeed the good people of the State on his victory at the Supreme Court today. “The verdict of the Supreme Court is consistent with the principles of justice administration and also the electoral desires of the people of that State as expressed in the Governorship election. “The petitions of the APC and its candidate in that election were not only frivolous but also absolutely baseless. It only betrayed a desire to wish for a harvest where one does not have a farm. Politicians must begin to understand the need to be sportsmanlike when they lose elections fair and square. “The judicial expedition which ends today was an unnecessary distraction from the APC and we are appreciative that justice prevailed in this matter. “We, therefore, charge Governor Makinde to continue to fire on all cylinders in the quest to deliver the dividends of democracy and good governance to the people of Oyo State”, it said. The state’s PDP chairman, Alh. Kunmi Mustapha in a statement  described the Supreme Court judgment as “victory for Oyo people” and noted that  Makinde’s rival, Adebayo Adelabu had appealed the ruling of the tribunal which had earlier affirmed Makinde as the winner of the poll and followed up to the Supreme Court, which led to the affirmation of the tribunal’s position on the outcome of the election. Mustapha said the confirmation of Makinde’s victory reflected the wishes of all Oyo indigenes, adding that developmental projects that would positively affect the growth of all and sundry. “We are grateful to God Almighty and the people of Oyo State and those lovers of Makinde all over the world for being there for us, it is a reflection of the masses”, he added. The PDP congratulated Governor Seyi Makinde over the Supreme Court judgment, which upheld his electoral victory on Wednesday. The party in a statement issued by its Publicity Secretary, Engr. Akeem Olatunji, said the verdict reaffirmed the general acceptance of PDP and the Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde, as reflected in the landslide victory recorded at the March, 2019 election in Oyo State. The party said the report of celebrations across the state at the breaking of the news of the verdict was a testimony that, indeed, justice was upheld in the ruling. The PDP commended the people of the state for their resolve to protect their mandate from the shenanigans of the All Progressives Congress (APC), noting that the massive solidarity and support from the people for Governor Makinde made the mandate untouchable.The PDP in Oyo State salutes the steadfastness and unalloyed support exhibited by the party members and most especially the good people of Oyo State while the unnecessary litigation was going on. “The support and solidarity from the people were massive and they made the mandate given to Governor Makinde untouchable. This, we commend and view as a positive step in our democratic experience, as it became evident that, indeed, the voice of the people would always prevail over the forces of darkness whenever the people stand for what is right. “Even though the major intentions of APC and its candidate were to distract Governor Seyi Makinde in his avowed commitment to deliver dividends of democracy to the nook and crannies of Oyo State, the Governor has summoned courage and has continued to deliver on his electoral promises to the surprise of the opposition. “We are using this opportunity to assure the people of the State that the Governor, as he continued to restate at every given opportunity, will not relent in his determination to develop the State and bring about unprecedented development. “The judgment of the Supreme Court has come at the right time and it can only be an encouragement for the PDP government in Oyo State to consolidate the path of progress and development which Governor Makinde’s administration has designed in its determination to transform Oyo State to an economic hub of Nigeria”, part of the statement read. However, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State while congratulating Governor Makinde over the validation of his election by the Supreme Court, urged him to see himself as a statesman and eschew anything that could bring chaos or anarchy to the state. The party in a statement signed by its publicity secretary, Dr. AbdulAzeez Olatunde, advised the the governor to emulate President Muhammadu Buhari by allowing judicial process to run its course on the local government cases before the courts. “All Progressives Congress, Oyo State chapter wishes to congratulate Gov Seyi Makinde for the Supreme Court validation of his gubernatorial election victory, today, 18th December 2019. “We urge you to consider that APC as a Party of disciplined and law abiding group chose the legal option of ventilating our grievances,which is assumed to be the most appropriate way of deepening democratic culture. “Furthermore, we urge you to see yourself as a statesman which the governorship position you occupy confer on you by eschewing anything that could bring chaos or anarchy to Oyo state. “Finally,we would like to advise Governor Seyi Makinde to emulate the way and manner President Muhammadu Buhari allows judicial process to run its course unhindered in his own gubernatorial election to cascade down to the local government in Oyo State, by allowing ongoing litigation to run its course or simply put, allow the courts to make their pronouncement like its done in this gubernatorial electoral litigation before jumping to any conclusions”, the party said. The governor, Seyi Makinde on his reaction said the reaffimation of his mandate at the Supreme Court amounted to truth eventually prevailing in the state. The governor, who stated this while speaking with newsmen at Ibadan Airport shortly after arriving from Abuja, following the Supreme Court judgment, said the decision of the apex court to validate his victory in the March 9, governorship election is an opportunity to continue to develop the state. The governor’s chief press secretary, Taiwo Adisa in a statement, Makinde appreciated the judiciary for standing firm by the truth, the people of the state, Justices of the Supreme Court, especially Justice Adumein of the Court of Appeal, for their unwavering belief to stand by the truth. According to the governor, those who challenged the result of the election, which the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won by a wide margin, were peddlers of lies. He said: “I want to say that the celebration should continue. I have always known that truth will always prevail no matter how long lies have been peddled. “I want to specially thank Justice Adumein, the Justice of the Court of Appeal, who stood by the truth.“When the case got to the Supreme Court, because truth is constant, they also stood by the truth. And for the people of Oyo State, during the electioneering period, we prepared a document on the accelerated development for Oyo State. “So, this victory is a victory for the people of the state and an opportunity for us to continue on the path of accelerated development for the state. So, with this victory, the people should expect more from us.”