FPG Technologies & Solutions Limited with its technology solution partners Nutanix, Pcysys, Blackberry and Digalance has hosted business and IT executives from different sectors across Nigeria on potentials for digital transformation in Nigeria. Speaking at the roundtable conference with the theme “Applied Digital Transformation – Achieving The Digital Enterprise”, the chief executive officer of FPG Technologies & Solutions Limited, Rex Mafiana, sald the roundtable was aimed at showcasing a macro view of Digital Transformation objectives and reiterate how businesses can harness innovative digital technologies in Artificial Intelligence and Automation, Cyber Resilience and Data Analytics to enable organisations make evidence-based business decisions and enhance the customer experience. “FPG is primarily focused on extreme business agility and confidence,” he said.  “We are committed to empowering organisations to help shape and execute their Digital Transformation strategy efficiently through addressing the challenges and benefits associated with driving Digital Transformation for the bottom line.   Digital Transformation is about agility, culture change, cross-functional teams that work efficiently and effectively together.” According to him, customer/user experience is at the heart of digital transformation of any organisation, the new culture today is that organisation can make changes in their digital and IT infrastructure without disrupting their normal businesses as it currently happens in Nigeria. Also speaking, Willem Coetsee, Sales director, Digalance said, “At Digalance, we use a well-defined governance framework that helps organisations define and implement a digital transformation DevOps strategy which ensures business platforms and pipelines are built on a solid foundation of repeatability, testability and scalability. “The governance framework covers; people, process, tools and takes cognisance of the important culture change aspects.  Digalance unlocks the power of the cloud by delivering IT modernisation and helping organisations adopt digital transformation DevOps at scale.’’ Also speaking at the event on Automated Penetration Testing, Noam Segev, distinguished Cybersecurity consultant and regional director Iberia, Southeast Europe, CIS and Africa, added: “Organisations such as financial firms must always be one step ahead in having their critical assets secured.  With approaches such as vulnerability scanning, validation, mediation and penetration tasting used to checkmate breaches taking longer and longer times, coupled with the scarcity of the right skills and human limitations, we have deployed a robotic artificial intelligent solution that mimics thousands of people testing your platform for vulnerability and continuously validating your security controls and processes.  We believe that with this solution in place, organisations will reduce their operational expenditure on pen-testing. “In these recent times when Businesses are pressured to Innovate and are more cost constrained than ever, our priority at Nutanix is to ensure Enterprises across Africa are able to deliver Computing Infrastructure Simply, efficiently and at unprecedentedly low costs through our Scale Out Architecture,” Babatunde Abagun, Channel manager WECA, Nutanix said.