The plight of orphans, widows and individuals without a source of livelihood that currently reside under the numerous under bridges in Lagos, is not by choice but out of necessity. Homelessness is a global pandemic, and in Lagos mega city where people seek greener pastures, never in the history of the state has it witnessed such high rate of homelessness. GEORGE OKOJIE writes. Bridges festoon the Lagos landscape and are well known to motorists and commuters that use them to move from one location to the other. But it means even more to some other individuals that use them as shops and shelter after a hard day’s work. To live or sleep under the bridge seemed to be an accepted way of life embraced in the country’s commercial hub as far back as the 60s and 70s when the term ‘sleeping under a bridge’ was coined. But in recent times, the number of people seen sleeping under the flyovers in different parts of the state is not only baffling but disturbing. Ever since the trend got its roots, the state has continued to witness daily influx of people from other parts of the country, habouring scores of migrants from smaller, less-commercial Nigerian cities desirous of making it big in the state. Available statistics have shown that about 86 migrants enter Lagos every minute of the day, thereby amounting to 123,840 people in a day, the highest in any city of the world. Ironically, most of the migrants are without support system and therefore end up under the bridges in Lagos, a squalid space devoid of the warmth, or security of a regular house, yet it serves as a base for them and other squatters consisting of motor park touts, delinquent youths and young girls ever ready to do whatever menial work they could find in the day time and return at night to the base to lay their heads. For Mrs. Bridget Nwogu she would have loved to live in a luxury apartment in the state but lacked the means to achieve it and resorted to living under the Akpongbon and CMS bridges with her two children. She told LEADERSHIP Sunday, “We used to live in Jos, I had a thriving business in Jos. My husband was killed in Jos mayhem and we lost everything we laboured for and managed to escape and came to Lagos. At first we put up with my cousin in Oyingbo for a few months until they suddenly became hostile to me and my children. ‘’It got to a point we could not bear it and decided to take our destinies in our hands. It is alright. This is how we live. We have taken ‘Akamu’ (Pap) this morning we will go inside Balogun Market to hawk pure water and soft drinks for people. From the little money we get there we are able to feed. ‘’During rainy season we will suffer, the place sometimes will be flooded. Mosquitoes have become our friend. Who do you complain to? At least we are not begging on the streets. I believe we will come out of it. We will be able to rent a room apartment and my children will go back to school.’’ For Saheed and Kola who are bus conductors living under the Lagos Flyovers it is not palatable but a necessity. Saheed said, “I am from Oshogbo, in Osun State. I came to Lagos to hustle. Brother Kunle too came to Lagos before me to hustle and he suffered very well to make it. When I came to Lagos, I went to his house in Agege he gave me water to drink and food. After eating he told me to find my way because there is no brother in Lagos. That every man is for himself. ‘’I don’t want to go back to my village so I am struggling , sleeping under the bridge in CMS, mosquitoes will take me to do ‘suya’ I don’t mind. In the morning I will go and join the bus, when there is life there is hope.’’ LEADERSHIP Sunday checks showed that under bridge habitation is a combination of the good, bad and ugly. Overtime it has been discovered to be a black spot in the state inhabited by miscreants amid other environmental challenges. Amid so many challenges, an underage boy, Hamed Gilani, 11, who was nabbed under the bridged in Oshodi area of the state and was later referred to a correctional centre, confessed that he ran to Lagos from one of the neighbouring states after his parents separated their ways. According to Gilani, “I ran errand for those bigger miscreants and I was lured into smoking Indian hemp when I started sleeping among them under the bridge at Oshodi, about a year ago.” In the same vein, another suspect, Suraju Ademola, who has been sleeping along the railway line under the Oshodi bridge for over seven months, confessed that he was part of criminals who attacked and robbed innocent members of the public of their valuables around Oshodi bridge both early morning and night. To this end, operatives of the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences Unit, constantly raid the spot to arrest miscreants and recover various hard drugs in the process. The chairman of the agency, Olayinka Egbeyemi, a Chief Superintendent of Police explained that they raid the spot regularly to rid the state of all criminal elements. Egbeyemi added that the crackdown is in line with the determination of the Taskforce, to curtail the activities of hoodlums who rob unsuspecting members of the public across the metropolis. He disclosed that some of those arrested in those locations are in possession of suspected illegal substances (Indian hemp) and other dangerous drugs such as; Codeine, Skunk and Tramadol. Egbeyemi pointed out that a lot of the criminal elements used under the bridges as their base to perpetuate the evil, stressing that the present administration has declared zero-tolerance for all forms of crimes and criminality aimed at eradicating activities of miscreants and cultists disturbing innocent residents. Taskforce boss revealed that 13 of all the 71 suspects they recently apprehended were released after a thorough screening, while an underage male among them was transferred to the Lagos State Correctional Centre, Ojota area of the state for proper rehabilitation. According to Egbeyemi, “Lagos State is the most populous in Nigeria as well as its economic heartbeat. As such, the state government is committed to providing a conducive environment for both local and foreign investors and won’t have it messed up by criminal elements.” In all of these, the Group Managing Director Adron Homes And Properties Limited, Oba Adetola EmmanuelKing believes that the issue of shelter can be solved and should not be rite of passage in the country to warrant people living under bridges. According to him, the capital solution to the nation’s housing sector is sincerity and the will to execute good programmes. ‘’There has been housing programmes from local to federal government levels but there has not been the sincerity to execute such programmes. We have experts in this field of housing , in various seminars they propound theories on how this issue of mass housing for the populace can work but the people that will execute it become the problem.’’ He added that, ‘’The issue of funding has been there but how sincere are we about policy formation, about making funds available. Today in labour market there is no job security, when there is no job security how do you pursue social housing? In every part of the world where mass housing has succeeded it was done through social housing.  We cannot use the strategy of the private housing developers as a template for mass housing delivery. ‘’It will not work, the government must be in the forefront to drive the process. It is government responsibility. If I am applying for a loan through the national housing funds, I am a contributor. Somebody within a year or two has lost his job and will stay for another six months before getting another job. “The question is how will the person contribute to the National Housing Funds to have access to the funds. Even those contributing to the National Housing Fund for them to access it has been an herculean task. There are times they have over one million applicants and you now give only fifty thousand people. ‘’On what ratio of success will you record that? Whereas it should be the other way round to the extent that children unborn should have access to housing . Shelter should be primary assignment of any sane government. Finance is major and we have continued to dance around it without talking on how to reduce interest rate on finance. ‘’ Government will even be telling the governed that the money they gave to Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria was borrowed that they want to do business with it. To me this is not a proper way of providing funds for housing development. Government must lead from the front. They have the land and all what it takes to make housing available to the people. ‘’The theory of segregation too is not helping matters. This idea of saying those living in some areas are poor and those living in other areas are rich people. In some developed and advance countries they do it but they are heavily taxed. But they ensured that in every other estate there are roads, light, security and decent homes for all to live a good life. The gap is so wide that we make housing seemingly not possible to get.’’