The director-general of National Agency for Control of Aids (NACA), Dr. Gambo Aliyu has restated the agency’s determination to ensure total elimination of HIV/AIDS in Nigeria by 2030. Speaking during the graduation ceremony and economic empowerment for indigent HIV vulnerable persons in Kano State, Aliyu disclosed the agency’s drive to reduce stigmatization and discrimination as well as make the carriers self-reliant through capacity building. The NACA boss revealed that 130 and 120 HIV/AIDS carriers were trained and empowered with various professional skills in Kano and Oyo states respectively. “We decided to train carriers with HIV positive because most of them cannot afford to buy drugs as and when due thereby facing various kinds of health problems in the discharge of their responsibilities,” he said. He added that NACA had decided to give all those who participated in the trainings some tools that they would be using to further advance their skills on the various professions they trained on. According to him, “After every three or six months, NACA officials will make it a routine exercise by paying unscheduled visits to all those who benefitted from the NACA gestures in order to ensure they fully utilise what was given to them.” Earlier in his remarks, the Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje represented by the state commissioner of Health, Alhaji Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa commended NACA for embarking on the laudable initiative of training HIV positives to enhance their capacity. Ganduje said the state government is paying attention on the improvement of health facilities across the state like provision of 400 bedding capacity in the five newly created emirates. In his address, the director-general of the Kano State Agency for the Control of HIV/AIDS, Alhaji Sabitu Shua’ibu Shanono expressed happiness over the agency’s gesture, saying the training has empowered Kano indigent HIV carriers to fend for themselves. He said the state will never forget with this practical initiative of the federal government in which hundreds of the HIV carriers were trained on how best to conduct themselves as industrious members of the society. Responding on behalf of the beneficiaries, Hajiya Zainab Ibrahim expressed happiness at the foresight of the government that reasoned with the condition of the carriers and the huge amount of money expended on them hoping that they would reciprocate the gesture by utilising the tools given to them judiciously