After several appeals by  residents of Kpe-Jande on Naka- Adoka road, Gwer-west local government area of Benue state to government and spirited individuals to provide them with potable water to alleviate the plight of residents whose only source of water have been contaminated with oil spillage, some of the residents have resorted to scooping fuel for sale. Our correspondent gathered that over forty dug-up wells in the community were said to be polluted with substances suspected to be fuel, thereby endangering the lives of several households. In an interview with one of the community members whose house was also affected, Gerrard Ugbede lamented that the community has been suffering for the past three years due to the oil spillage. “We started experiencing this spillage since 2016, and we drew the attention of one of the fuel station owners located close to the community, whom we suspected a leakage in one of the underground tanks but our appeal to him to carry out a check fell on deaf ears”. “We even drew the attention of the state house of assembly member whose family house was also affected and he invited the owner of the fuel station for a meeting with affected members of the community where they resolved that a leakage test should be carried out in order to ascertain the actual fault” According to him, the man after some days alleged that he contracted one company to carry out the test and no leakage was found on any of the underground tanks. When contacted on phone, the owner of the Fuel station, Gabriel Ogwuche who said that he contracted one company to carry out a test on all the underground tanks, alleged that someone somewhere is out to cripple his businesses. Some of the affected residents including the community leader, Mr Angba Francis, who spoke to our correspondent expressed diverse challenges arising from the polluted wells, one of which he said that their source of drinking water has been polluted with oil. It would be recalled that the head of Health, Safety and Environment, department of Petroleum Resources in Makurdi, Mr Salihu Mohammad, said that the department was aware of the situation but requested that the community should write a formal letter to enable them take it up formally and carry out sample of the exact pollution in the wells. The care – taker chairman of the local government, Francis Ayaga who also decried the plight of the community said that urgent step should be taken to address the situation, adding that he will engage all stakeholders and the owner of Gabros Oil to seek lasting solution before it gets out of hand. Our correspondent gathered that the owner of the fuel station has petitioned the community for threat to life and his business.