The Nigeria Economy is expected to grow by 2.1 per cent in 2020, while the South African economy is projected to grow at 0.9 per cent this year as the World Bank in its latest report forecast a 2.5 per cent rise in global economic growth. The World Bank in its January Global Economic Growth Prospects titled, “Slow Growth, Policy Challenges” released yesterday, while noting that growth was subdued in 2019 in Angola, Nigeria, and South Africa, the three largest economies in the region, said growth in the Sub Saharan region is expected to pick up to 2.9 per cent in 2020. It said growth in Nigeria is expected to edge up to 2.1 per cent adding that the macroeconomic framework characterised by multiple exchange rates, foreign exchange restrictions, high persistent inflation, and a central bank targeting manifold objectives, is not conducive to confidence. According to the report, the region’s growth is expected to pick up “assuming investor confidence improves in some large economies, energy bottlenecks ease, a pickup in oil production contributes to recovery in oil exporters and robust growth continues among agricultural commodity exporters. The forecast is weaker than previously expected reflecting softer demand from key trading partners, lower commodity prices, and adverse domestic developments in several countries “South Africa, growth is expected to edge up to 0.9 per cent, assuming the new administration’s reform agenda gathers pace, policy uncertainty wanes, and investment gradually recovers. Increasingly binding infrastructure constraints — notably in electricity supply — are expected to inhibit domestic growth, while export momentum will be hindered by weak external demand. “Growth in Angola is anticipated to accelerate to 1.5 per cent, assuming that ongoing reforms provide greater macroeconomic stability, improve the business environment, and bolster private investment. In the West African Economic and Monetary Union, growth is expected to hold steady at 6.4 per cent. In Kenya, growth is seen edging up to six per cent,” stated the report. It said global economic growth is forecast to edge up to 2.5 per cent in 2020 as investment and trade gradually recover from last year’s significant weakness but downward risks persist, the World Bank says in its January 2020 Global Economic Prospects. World Bank Group vice president for Equitable Growth, Finance and Institutions, Ceyla Pazarbasioglu said, “Growth among advanced economies as a group is anticipated to slip to 1.4 per cent in 2020 in part due to continued softness in manufacturing. Growth in emerging market and developing economies is expected to accelerate this year to 4.1 per cent. “This rebound is not broad-based; instead, it assumes improved performance of a small group of large economies, some of which are emerging from a period of substantial weakness. About a third of emerging market and developing economies are projected to decelerate this year due to weaker-than expected exports and investment. “With growth in emerging and developing economies likely to remain slow, policymakers should seize the opportunity to undertake structural reforms that boost broad-based growth, which is essential to poverty reduction. Steps to improve the business climate, the rule of law, debt management, and productivity can help achieve sustained growth,” Pazarbasioglu stated. United States growth is forecast to slow to 1.8 per cent this year, reflecting the negative impact of earlier tariff increases and elevated uncertainty. Euro Area growth is projected to slip to a downwardly revised one per cent in 2020 amid weak industrial activity. Downside risks to the global outlook predominate, and their materialisation could slow growth substantially. These risks include a re-escalation of trade tensions and trade policy uncertainty, a sharper-than expected downturn in major economies, and financial turmoil in emerging market and developing economies. Even if the recovery in emerging and developing economy growth takes place as expected, per capita growth would remain well below long-term averages and well below levels necessary to achieve poverty alleviation goals. World Bank Prospects group director, Ayhan Kose said, “Low global interest rates provide only a precarious protection against financial crises. The history of past waves of debt accumulation shows that these waves tend to have unhappy endings. In a fragile global environment, policy improvements are critical to minimize the risks associated with the current debt wave.”