13 months after Maiduguri-Damboa was closed down due to resurgence of the Boko Haram terrorists activities on the road, the Nigerian Army on Tuesday reopened the road for commuters and travellers. The Army also issued stern warning to the members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers ( NURTW ) not to extort any commuter plying the route under the guise of providing logistics to the Military. LEADERSHIP reports that the Maiduguri- Damboa road which also linked Biu in southern part of Borno state turned a war zone at the peak of the Boko Haram insurgency , thus forcing the Military to close it down in 2016. But with the victory on the side of the Military on the road , it was reopened in 2018 before it was shut down again after the terrorists resumed hostilities on the route. It could be recalled that it was on the Maiduguri-Damboa road that the terrorists abducted over 13 police women who were conveying their late colleague home to Askira-Uba. Reopening the road, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai assured commuters plying the route of safety, adding that he has directed all Commanders to provide security to all using the highway. The Army Boss said:” It is my honour and privilege to be here again for the second time on this road to reopen it. We first of all reopened this road on the 27th of February, 2016 , where we allowed commuters to play this road with maximum protection. ” However, for strategic reasons, the road has been closed. This was to allow for freedom of action of our troops to be able to contain attack by terrorists on this road. It was quite strategic, it was not done deliberately to inconvenience the people plying this road or to prevent them from carrying out their economic activities. ” It was first of all done for operational emergencies as well as to contain and safeguard the lives of all the law abiding citizens of this state and of course our country. So, today’s reopening is quite unique in the sense that we have achieved the objective of the closure,” Lt Gen. Buratai noted. Also Speaking , the Theatre Commander Operation Lafiya Dole, Major General Olusegun Adeniyi, recalled that the road was closed sometimes last year as part of the Military strategy to strangulate the Boko Haram terrorists. Adeniyi said:” Today marks a trying moment in containing the excesses of the Boko Haram terrorists in Operation Lafiya Dole . As this road reopens today , all hands must be on deck for it to remain so opened. We wish to urge all commuters plying this road to take it as their own by availing the Theatre Command and other security agencies all necessary information that will help us keep the road open and safe. ” I also want to reiterate the need for drivers to Shun Boko Haram terrorists’s blackmail of tasking commuters to drop fuel for them by the road side for the propagation of their criminal heinous acts. Also, let it be known that this road is open seven times in a week . ” Secondly, I urge members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers ( NURTW ) not to task commuters that you are collecting any token for the security on the road , Army headquarters has made provision for our logistics, that might be bribery and it is criminal,” The Theatre Commander warned. In his remarks, the Borno state governor, Professor Babagana Umara Zulum, thanked the Chief of Army Staff, Lt General Buratai for taking the Bold step of reopening the road, and for his support to secure Borno state and Nigeria at large. Represented by the deputy governor, Usman Kadafur, Zulum called on the commuters on the road to be very law abiding and cooperate with the security agencies as well as reporting strange movements or faces on the road. He said:” Iam also happy today when I heard the Theatre Commander said the road will be opened every day. I was also happy when he warned the NURTW that they should not in any way extort commuters in the name of taking money for securing the road . They should try as possible to avoid this things, and I know they will cooperate and abide by it, Zulum added .