In this piece, DANJUMA JOSEPH takes a look at how the Supreme Court in its recent unanimous ruling, affirmed Engineer Abdullahi A. Sule, as the substantive Governor of Nasarawa State. Governor Sule’s victory began during the 2019 general elections, when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), announced him the winner of that keenly contested election. The returning officer for that governorship election in the state, Professor Bala Abdullahi, announced the scores of the various political parties that contested the governorship seat, where he declared the then candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Sule, as winner of the governorship poll. According to the pronouncement by the returning officer, the APC candidate polled 327,229 votes to defeat his closest rivals, Hon. Emmanuel Ombugadu of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who scored 184,281 votes and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) candidate, Hon. Labaran Maku, who came third with 132,281 votes. A breakdown of the result showed that out of the 13 Local Government Areas of the state, the APC candidate, Sule, won in 11, while Maku of the APGA and Doma Aliyu of the Zenith Labour Party shared the remaining two local councils. But, the candidate of the PDP, Ombugadu, who came second in the guber race could not win any council area. The 11 Local Government Areas won by Sule of the APC include Awe, Keana, Obi, Lafia, Wamba, Akwanga, Kokona, Keffi, Karu, Toto and Nasarawa. Accordingly, the governorship candidate of APGA, Labaran Maku, and that of the Zenith Labour party, Aliyu Doma, won in Nasarawa Eggon and Doma Local Government Areas respectively. The Returning Officer while declaring Sule winner of the governorship election of the state said that the total number of registered voters in the state was 1,617,786 while accredited voters stood at 686,303, and valid votes at the end of the election were 670,879. Professor Bala concluded that the total number of rejected votes were 10,521, even as he added that the total number of votes cast during the election stood at 681,400. Labaran Maku, not satisfied with the outcome of the governorship election, was the first to file a petition challenging the victory of Abdullahi Sule, of the APC, the governor of Nasarawa State on the grounds that the election did not meet the requirement of the law. The APGA candidate had approached the tribunal, where he sought the cancellation of the March 9, 2019 governorship election in the state asking for a fresh poll to be conducted. But, the tribunal in its ruling read by the chairman, Abba Mohammed, threw out the petition on the ground that the petitioner filed application for pre-hearing before the stipulated time by the law. Maku, a former minister of information, not satisfied with the tribunal ruling ran to the appeal court, but the appeal court also threw his case out. He headed to the Supreme Court, where he challenged the ruling of the appeal court that threw out his case and prayed the apex court to direct appeal court to hear his case. The former minister prayed the apex court to set aside the judgement of the lower court and order the retrial of his petition which was dismissed for hearing. He also asked the court to refuse the reasoning of the cross-appellant and consequently dismiss the cross appellant’s appeal. Both the first and second respondents/cross-appellant also prayed the court to dismiss the appeal brought to it by Maku. However, Justice Mary Peter-Odili, who led the panel of five justices in entertaining the suit upheld both the verdicts of the tribunal as well as that of the Court of Appeal, affirming Engineer Sule’s election. A statement issued by Barrister Abubakar Imam, Legal Adviser to the governor said the judgment of the apex court brings to an end the legal battle over the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declaration and return of Engineer Sule as duly elected governor of Nasarawa State, having scored majority of valid and lawful votes cast during the March 9 governorship election. “Let me use this medium to thank our legal team for rising to the occasion. Worthy of thanks and commendation are the All Progressives Congress leadership and our untiring supporters who are always with us during the legal battle from the Election Petition Tribunal in Lafia, to Court of Appeal Makurdi and now the Supreme Court where we got all the judgment in our favor,” Barrister Imam, said. On his part, Senator Musa Nagogo, Nasarawa State governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) in the 2019 election, along the line withdrew his petition against the election of Gov. Abdullahi Sule. The PDM candidate had dragged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal for the alleged omission of his name and the logo of his party from the ballot paper. Nagogo, told journalists that he withdrew the petition due to appeals from stakeholders within and outside the state. “I also considered that this is the first time my zone which is Nasarawa North is getting the governorship seat since the state was created in 1996. “So, I should not be the one to truncate the opportunity of the zone to produce a governor, hence I withdrew,” “For the fact that I am not a governor today, I can be someday because the future will still be bright,” he said. Similarly, the PDP and its governorship candidate, Umbugadu, had petitioned the Tribunal, asking it to nullify Engr Sule’s election for non compliance with the electoral law and guidelines. But in the judgement which lasted for about eight hours, the Tribunal ruled in favour of Sule, declaring that the petitioner failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that there were massive irregularities in that election as alleged. Chairman of the panel Justice Abba Bello Mohammed, in his ruling dismissed the petitioner’s suit challenging the election of Governor Abdullahi Sule, for lacking in merit. Justice Abba also said that the petitioner did not provide any factual proof that INEC was wrong in returning Governor Sule of the APC as duly elected. According to him, the petitioner was supposed to prove his case beyond reasonable doubt for alleged over voting, disruption of votes, falsification of results among others. He said, the petition was not in compliance with the provision of the 2010 electoral Act, hence he failed to establish acts for his claim. The Tribunal further held that none of the witnesses who testified for the petitioner were able to establish facts or tender any documents that can substantiate the allegations made. Ombugadu, not satisfied with the tribunal ruling, headed to the Appeal Court, sitting in Makurdi, Benue State, but the Appeal Court, threw out the case. Again, not satisfied with the Appeal Court verdict which upheld the election tribunal ruling, Ombugadu, went to the Supreme Court, to get justice, but to no avail. Counsel for the PDP, Mr. Wale Olanikpekun, SAN, while adopting his final written addresses, alleged that INEC did not comply with the accreditation requirements in more than 90 per cent of the polling units in the state. He said that they had tendered certified true copies of voter registers to the tribunal, adding, “the total votes that returned the governor did not tally with the number of accredited voters” The Supreme Court, on Wednesday, 18th December, 2019 upheld the election of Engineer Abdullahi Sule as the governor of Nasarawa State. The seven-man panel headed by Justice Mary Peter-Odili, dismissed the appeal of David Ombugadu and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) against the March 9, 2019 victory of Sule. Justice Peter-Odili and her team unanimously said the appeal by Ombugadu and his party, the PDP lacked merit. Reacting to the Supreme Court judgement, Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, who spoke through his press secretary, Jibrin Gwamna, hailed the victory of Gov. Abdullahi Sule, at the superior court. “We are happy over the verdict as my people across the state voted massively for the governor during the election. Governor Abdullahi Sule’s victory at the Supreme Court, is a victory for peace, unity, progress and development of the state,” he said. The state secretary of the APC, Alhaji Aliyu Bello, described the verdict of the Supreme Court, as a victory for democracy and called on opponents to join hands with Gov Sule, to move the state forward. He also lauded the panel of justices for painstakingly delivering the judgment that reflected the will and aspirations of the people of the state, as he also commended the APC lawyers and INEC for a job well done. But the state’s secretary of the PDP, Alhaji Adamu Ninga, who expressed dissatisfaction and disappointment with the tribunal judgment, said from the tribunal to the Supreme Court it was ‘a clear miscarriage of justice’. “As a party, we were expecting a more transparent judicial process in line with the Nigerian justice system but as a law abiding Party and its leadership, even though we are not comfortable with the verdict of the courts, from the tribunal to the Supreme Court, we respect its decision and outcome” Ninga said.