The federal government has set the path toward realising the country’s gas potentials, but stakeholders emphasise that commercialism can only drive deserving investments, encourage Industrialisation and sustainable supply mechanism, writes CHIKA IZUORA. Nigeria is reportedly one of the top 10 nations in the world with huge natural gas reserves. The combined total of proved, probable and possible reserves are estimated at 300 trillion standard cubic feet (tscf). Nigeria’s gas reserves are about three times the value of her crude oil reserves and the largest natural gas initiative in the country is the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) project which is operated by several foreign oil companies and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Another major natural gas project is the West African Gas Pipeline which has encountered several bottle-necks. The pipeline transports natural gas from Nigeria to Ghana, Togo, Benin Republic and Cote d’Ivoire. Bulk of the associated gas (AG) is flared-off and Nigeria loses an estimated $18.2 million daily from the loss of revenue from flared gas. In recent years, the volume of gas flared has been significantly reduced and plans have been initiated to put an end to gas flaring in the coming years. However, gas development in Nigeria has been constrained by the absence of clear fiscal terms; gas pricing mechanism; legal and regulatory frameworks; and inadequate financing. To address these, government introduced a natural gas policy and a gas master plan. The natural gas policy specifically targets the promoting of a public – private sector partnership for an orderly and speedy commercialisation of the nation’s gas reserves, and so, contributes to the development and diversification of the domestic economy. On the other hand, the gas master plan was developed as a framework for maximising the value inherent in the nation’s gas reserves, and thus ensures the multiplier effect of gas usage in the economy and enhances the high- value gas export market. The gas master plan has three main components: the national domestic gas supply; pricing policy and regulations; and the gas infrastructure blueprint. The domestic gas supply obligation is meant to deal with the issue of improvements in domestic gas supply by imposing supply obligations on petroleum upstream operators. The gas pricing policy is predicated on a pricing framework that segregates the demand sector into three categories (domestic, industrial, and commercial), to which the different pricing regimes apply. The domestic category consists of the use of natural gas for domestic cooking and for power generation and this category has direct multiplier effect on the economy. The industrial category comprises of industries that consume natural gas as a raw material (feedstock) for the production of secondary products, such as methanol, fertilizer, gas– to- liquids (GTL). The commercial category consumes natural gas as an industrial fuel for manufacturing firms. The gas infrastructure blueprint was developed as an integrated infrastructure strategy to support domestic, regional, and export Liquefied Natural Gas, LNG markets. The key challenge to realizing the objectives of the gas master plan is ensuring the availability of gas for power generation and domestic consumption. Oil and gas resources are internationally traded products, and domestic pricing formula for these has been an issue in this country. Therefore, pricing these resources below their international prices for domestic consumption is considered in certain quarters as providing subsidy and so, unacceptable. As a result, international oil companies (IOCs) have developed a strong portfolio interest that is biased towards export of liquefied natural gas (LNG). The gas market (AG) is controlled by the few oil majors, and so, their bias towards the export market creates a major conflict with, and resistance to, plans for a significant boost in domestic usage of natural gas. Furthermore, this bias impedes plans to put a stop to gas flaring.  Gas Flaring The joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Programme, commissioned a study on the strategic gas plan for Nigeria in 2004. The report indicated that the gross monetary value of Nigeria’s natural gas reserves is roughly $2.5 billion per year and the environmental impact of gas flaring was highly significant (70 million metric tons of CO2 emissions per year). In response to these findings, the Nigerian government developed strategies for curtailing the financial loss and environmental impact of gas flaring, and to encourage the oil companies to develop programs for gas storage, processing and utilization. For example, the Petroleum Act (Cap 350 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 1990) specified under Regulation 42 (Petroleum Drilling & Production Regulations) that oil producing companies are required to submit work programs for the utilization of associated gas in oil fields within five (5) years from the commencement of production. Similarly, the Associated Gas Reinjection Act (Cap 26, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 1990 as amended) also stipulates that oil producing companies should provide detailed plans for gas processing and utilization. It also prohibits gas flaring without the written consent of the Petroleum Minister. However, the initiation of new export projects (GTL plants) from 1999 began an era of steady decline in flares. These projects were the NLNG project in Bonny, the Brass LNG (US $3.5 bn) and OKLNG (US $7.0 bn). Government has since then put in place a ‘flare-out’ policy, as encapsulated in the provisions of Section 3 of the Associated Gas Reinjection Act. Flare-out targets has been set for oil producing companies, but these have not been strictly monitored. For instance, the initial target was set for 1st January, 1994 and was subsequently shifted to 31st December, 2008. Now the current zero gas flare directive is being expected.  Setting A Fresh Path With the announcement by the group managing director, of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari that the federal government has risen up to the challenge of energising gas production, it is bring new hope to both the manufacturing and power sectors which are heavy users of the product. The boost will be necessitated by a new oil licencing round which is expected to take place in the course of the year. Kyari said that more efforts would be concentrated in production of Natural Gas Liquids (NGLs) and natural gas, to better comply with its crude production quota under the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC+) agreement. According to him, Nigeria is still on track to launch a new oil licencing round in the first half of 2020 for both offshore and onshore blocks but would not specify a date. The licencing round is part of Nigeria’s bid to hit a three million barrel a day (b/d) output target by 2023, he told reporters on the sidelines of the Atlantic Council Global Energy Forum in Abu Dhabi, last week. Many international oil companies have said the country needs to offer more attractive fiscal terms. Nigeria in early 2019 November, increased taxes on companies operating in its deepwater blocks. Kyari said Nigeria’s legislature was in the process of reviewing its petroleum law which will take care of the concerns. Natural gas liquids (NGL) are components of natural gas that are separated from the gas state in the form of liquids. This separation occurs in a field facility or a gas processing plant through absorption, condensation or other methods. Natural gas liquids are classified based on their vapour pressure. Kyari, noted that the shift is to increase gas production and that OPEC quotas only apply to crude oil production, not condensate. “You can produce condensate which is not part of the OPEC commitments. We are focusing our production to more gas-based reservoirs so that we can continue to grow our production while maintaining balance in the market.” he said. Nigeria’s December oil production was 2.2 million b/d, he said and declined to say how much of that was crude and how much was condensate. The country was fully compliant with its quota of 1.77 million b/d for crude, he said. “We have met our commitment by December,” Kyari said on a panel at the forum. Nigeria was currently counting production of its new Egina grade as condensate, he said. Egina crude has a gravity 27.5 API, significantly heavier than typical condensates, and a sulfur content of 0.17 per cent, according to a source. The oil is expected to have high yields of gasoil and distillates.  Enhancing Industrialisation As at October 2018, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources estimated the country’s reserves to production ratio, which measures the remaining amount of a non-renewable resource expressed in time, for oil at 46 years and 102 years for gas. Nigeria is mostly regarded as “a gas province with some oil”. Minister of State Petrolueum, Timipre Silva, said gas produced in the country has primarily been for LNG export, reinjection for oil recovery and domestic utilisation by power and gas-based industries, with the balance flared. Gas is the fuel of the future as it is abundant, more cost-effective than liquid fuels, safer and environmentally friendly (that is, lighter than air, odourless, colourless and contains the least carbon among fossil fuels). This methane-rich fuel has proven to be one of the fastest paths to industrialisation and there is evidence of a correlation between Gross Domestic Product, GDP growth and gas consumption by productive sectors of the economy. Before the widespread utilisation of gas, the only source of energy were liquid fuels (mostly by-products of crude oil), and in Nigeria, predominantly Automotive Gas Oil (AGO), Low Pour Fuel Oil (LPFO) and Premium Motor Spirit (PMS). For industrial production, AGO and LPFO were the fuels of choice. These fuels however, are plagued by issues such as scarcity, labour strikes, pilferage, port delays, refinery shutdowns and unpredictable product pricing especially for deregulated fuels. Many of these issues are exacerbated by the linkage to crude oil and, very recently, at the height of the all-time high crude oil prices at over $100 per barrel, prices of liquid fuels were unsustainable and partly responsible for the shutdown of some manufacturing concerns. Then, came gas, the cheaper and much cleaner alternative with an entirely domestic value chain. The advent of gas solved the issues associated with liquid fuels including reliability, price predictability and local abundance, and as the manufacturing industry gradually embraced the methane-rich fuel, manufacturers have become more profitable and productive overall. The manufacturing sector considers Kyari’s announcement as heartwarming especially considering the economic benefits and “Messiah” status of natural gas to the manufacturing sector which has been shortchanged by liquid fuels. These benefits are that gas is a solution to fuel pilferage, a reliable energy source, cleaner alternative and enabler for increased profit.  Boosting Power Supply Erratic power supply continues to be the bane of Nigeria’s economic and industrial development as several manufacturers have had to either shutdown their operations or relocate to neighboring West African countries in order to remain competitive in the market. Power is the main destination for domestic gas with up to 70 per cent offtake.  The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, NERC’s Q1 2018 quarterly report of activities in the sector, attributed 74 per cent of the operational constraints causing stranded capacity within the electricity market to inadequate gas supply to the Gencos. A key component of the Multi Year Tariff Order, MYTO 2 model was the pricing of gas to the power sector under the Domestic Supply Obligation (DSO) regime, which is capped at $2.50/million standard cubic feet, mscf. Gas Aggregation Company of Nigeria (GACN) acting as the “Strategic aggregator” for the domestic gas market mandates every gas producer to allocate a portion of their gas production to strategic sectors of the domestic market (majorly the power sector) before allocation to other commercial obligations. However, the annual performance of actual gas supplied compared to DSO ranges from a low 20 per cent to 35 per cent, as gas producers are unable to meet the DSO demands. According to available information, the short-fall of gas supply to the domestic market can be linked to a number of issues and one such issue is the preference of producers for a deregulated market (i.e. export) where they can ensure return on their investments. Given the global push away from oil to cleaner fuels, such as gas, the Nigerian economy is going to become ever more dependent on gas and less dependent on crude oil. The gas sector simply cannot be allowed to follow the same path as the power sector as this would have terrible consequences for the economy. President, Mrs. Audrey Joe-Ozigbo, Nigeria Gas Association (NGA) has consistently argued that to avoid a downward trend in the gas industry, it is crucial that a system that encourages private sector investment, including foreign investment, is put in place. To achieve this, all the participants in the gas value chain (gas producers, gas processors, pipeline developers) must be confident of return on their investment.  The current DSO procedure that allocates seemingly arbitrary pricing on gas supplied by the upstream gas producers without considering the viability of such pricing does not work and is a disincentive to gas producers investing in the gas infrastructure required to utilise Nigeria’s vast gas reserves. Likewise, imposing arbitrary end customer gas prices on downstream gas distribution companies without taking into account the significant investment made to develop the gas distribution infrastructure and the cost of operating and maintaining the infrastructure will have a similarly damaging effect. The key lesson for the gas industry from the challenges facing the power sector must be the importance of investors being assured of return on their investment either through an agreed return or through market led pricing.  If this lesson is ignored and the gas industry is not incentivised to work, the aspiration to achieve the optimum contribution of gas to the economy will remain a mirage, says NGA.  A Reliable Energy Source As stated earlier, liquid fuels are susceptible to a myriad of issues that make them unreliable. Port delays, labour strikes, the underperformance of refineries etc. make it difficult to predict when products will be available. Also, because these fuels are mostly imported, the lack of foreign exchange currencies impacts availability, and a lack of predictability will usually make it difficult for manufacturers to plan operations and be efficient. With liquid fuels, the issue of end product stock-outs is prevalent because manufacturers are not able to effectively manage inventory. This ultimately results in loss of sales, customers and market share. The fact that gas is locally sourced solves these issues. The entire gas value chain – from upstream production to transportation and final delivery to last mile users – is domestic. Save for the few militancy attacks, for many years, there were no gas supply interruptions. Natural gas therefore comes to the rescue, making it easier for companies to effectively manage production schedules with minimal interruptions and ultimately run very efficient and predictable operations.  A Cleaner Alternative The combustion of liquid fuels typically produces 2-3 times more carbon dioxide, thus polluting the atmosphere and accelerating global warming. In addition, liquid fuels also produce other harmful substances such as soot, SOx and NOx and sometimes deadly carbon-monoxide due to incomplete combustion. All these affect the health and productivity of staff of manufacturing organizations as well as present them in a bad light as contributors to environmental pollution. Consequently, organizations with such record may find it difficult to attract financing from global financiers and staff attrition and absenteeism may also be high leading to unstable operations. The introduction of natural gas as the “saviour” solves most of these issues because it is environmentally friendly, odourless, colourless and produces only water vapour and small amounts of carbon dioxide during combustion. Natural gas equipment also tends to require much less maintenance and last longer thereby reducing overall total cost of ownership.  The Enabler for Increased Profit The combined effect of pilferage, higher cost of maintenance of liquid fuels equipment, and unreliability, is a higher than normal operating expense for the manufacturing industry. However, with natural gas which is generally about 30 to 40 per cent cheaper than diesel and also a panacea to the above short-comings of liquid fuels, the industry has immediately seen an enhanced bottom line from the switch to natural gas. Also, while the initial capex requirements for a gas equipment may be higher, they generally have lower maintenance costs and therefore lower total cost of ownership compared to liquid fuels. Such low costs also stem from the fact that there are no spills, effluents or soot with gas equipment and by implication no costly requirements for cleanup, lower staff medical bills given that employees are not exposed to inhaling dangerous gases and so on. The manufacturing sector expects government to focus its efforts at creating an enabling environment for the development of the gas industry as natural gas provides a strong base for industrial development and thus developing the sector will position the country for unprecedented growth while creating an alternative source of public revenues. Operators have repeatedly argued that the key enabling factor for the development of the sector is “pricing” and significant efforts must be directed at promoting a framework that attracts quality private capital. The framework must be such that balances the need to guarantee investors a reasonable return on investment alongside the need to deepen domestic gas utilization.  Addressing Gas Pricing Constraints Government regulation of domestic natural gas pricing in Nigeria appears to be easy to accept theoretically but difficult to sustain in practice. The challenge with implementing a regulated pricing regime in the domestic market is exacerbated by the widely divergent interests of major players in the industry. The key dilemma in Nigeria is that whilst lower gas prices are needed to encourage gas demand and support local industries and power generation, cost-reflective prices are needed to stimulate investment in gas infrastructure and assure supply sustainability. The scale of the problem is further compounded by the fact that the various domestic demand sectors have varying capacity to accommodate cost-reflective gas prices. On the other hand, competitive tariffs in international markets can create a preferential pull for exports at the expense of the domestic market if regulated pricing results in lower returns on investments and/or inability of the gas supplier to cover its costs. Dr. Chijioke Nwaozuzu, a petroleum policy expert argues that a number of issues have to be addressed; particularly the issue of appropriate pricing of gas for domestic consumption still sticks out and affects independent power initiatives. The choice is between continuing with the current subsidy regime to power plants and industrial firms and permitting the oil companies to produce and sell at market-driven rates. Resolving this matter would ensure that most of the power plants being constructed would be able to obtain gas feedstock for their operations. 