A group, Alliance for Preservation of Democracy, has called on political parties to seek judicial review of the Imo state election which was overturned last week. LEADERSHIP recalls that the supreme court had on Tuesday, January 14, 2020 nullified the election of Emeka Ihedioha as the governor of IMO state and declared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hope Uzodinma, as the winner of 2019 guber poll in the state Briefing Newsmen, in Abuja, Director, Advocacy and Communication, Make A Difference Initiative (MAD) Lemmy Ughegbe, had tasked the political parties concerned who had raised various issues alleging irregularities in the courts decision to seek judicial review of the judgement. Ughegbe noted that the supreme court has the power of life and death and owes itself a duty to do justice to Imo people according to the law. Noting that the press conference was not wholly about the shocking and Tsunamic judgment of the Apex Court on the Imo governorship appeal, rather the general decay in the judiciary and why it should be arrested for our collective good. He said” Today, judgments are more political than judicial. Judges are ruled by fear of what could befall them if they act contrary to the famed ‘body language’ of those that wield executive powers. It is in this sense that we are concerned”. “It is still a waiting game to see how the Supreme Court will explain its historical ruling on the Imo gubernatorial contest owing to its obvious somersault on legal precedents it had established prior to the curious judgment of Tuesday, January 14, 2020”. He said “We are not unmindful that right from the moment security operatives, in Gestapo manner, laid siege to the homes of judges and thereafter the grave assault in the removal of Justice Walter Onnoghen, judges across the country are in great peril, therefore want to pander to some interests. The reason is because some of them are mired in conduct unbecoming of judicial officers, therefore, susceptible to blackmail by agents of State”. “It is imperative that those who are already compromised should seek for penance through the NJC or come public so as to have the moral courage to deliver judgments not only according to the law but their conscience” Furthermore, it is about time that Nigerians stand in defence of the judiciary as it serves as the last bastion of safety, decency and guardian of the rule of law. For too long have Nigerians shirked their duty of rallying behind a key arm of government that needs to be shielded from the vagaries of the other two arms. If we allow the judiciary and judicial officers to continual be muddied and bullied, then we should all count ourselves lost. Also, the judges should be circumspect in making pronunciations or reaching decisions. Theirs is a sacred duty and on many occasions, they hold the key to life and death. For intance, how can a judge ask a Defendant alleged to have misappropriated N100m to bring a civil servant as surety in the sum of N1bn? Is this not invariably asking that he brings an individual that has corruptly enriched himself at public expense, or that the one on trial should find no remedy in the law? What is the essence of the law if not justice and correction? Mr Ughegbe maintained that “As things are, judicial officers must embark on soul searching while we as citizens – corporate or otherwise – must work to insulate the judiciary from the grievous assault of those determined to upend our democracy and cast a cloud over our common destiny”. It is our expectation that as the Apex Court moves to deliver judgments on other pending appeals, it will stand on firm footing and not be swayed by any sentiment other than justice for the common good.