The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has maintained that there would be no substitution of candidates by political parties in the rerun elections holding on Saturday, January 25, 2020. INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, restated this yesterday in Abuja when he swore in two national commissioners, Dr Alalibo Sinikiem Johnson from Bayelsa State and Umar Mukhtar Gajiram from Borno State, who were posted to Cross River and Taraba States, respectively. Yakubu said that the only constituencies where the substitution of candidates are allowed are Gamawa Federal Constituency in Bauchi State and Agwara State Constituency in Niger State where elections will be held without the candidates and parties that were declared winners during the general elections. He assured Nigerians that the commission was ready for the re-run elections as all the sensitive and non-sensitive materials had been deployed in the states. Yakubu said that stakeholders’ meetings had been held while security arrangements were being finalized, adding that training and posting of ad-hoc staff as well as the configuration of Smart Card Readers were ongoing. The INEC boss explained that where the elections involve entire constituencies, national and some resident electoral commissioners would be deployed in the affected areas.. The commission, he said, would work with the security agencies to ensure adequate protection for electoral officials, accredited observers, the media and the entire exercise against acts inimical to the conduct of peaceful and credible elections. Yakubu said: ”We have received assurances from the security agencies of adequate protection of the processes in line with the rules of engagement for election duty.” On the new RECs, Yakubu said that the Senate recently confirmed their nomination by President Muhammadu Buhari as a result of the vacancies that existed in two states. He said: “Two new RECs have just been sworn-in. They are Dr Alalibo Sinikiem Johnson from Bayelsa State and Umar Mukhtar Gajiram from Borno State. Dr Johnson is from Bayelsa State and replaces the former REC of Cross River State while Mr. Gajiram replaces the former REC of Taraba State who died a few months ago.” ”Dr Johnson holds a BSc. degree in Political Science and a Master’s and Doctorate degrees in Peace and Conflict Studies. Until this appointment, he was a lecturer at the Niger Delta University in Bayelsa State. Mr Gajiram, holds a Bachelor’s degree in English Language and a Master’s degree in Public Administration. He served in various capacities in the Borno State civil service until his retirement as a substantive director,” Yakubu said of the new RECs. ”Let me, therefore, congratulate Dr Johnson and Mr. Gajiram on their appointment. As I told your colleagues on the occasion of their swearing-in as RECs, you will also be responsible for the implementation of the commission’s policies. In doing so, you will exercise supervisory control over personnel, resources as well the legal and administrative processes in the state to which you are deployed. You will also interact with various categories of stakeholders. In doing so, you must maintain the required openness and consultation. At the same time, you must be very firm in the discharge of your responsibilities. ”As RECs, you can be deployed to any part of the country at any time the exigencies of service require but you will never serve in your States of origin throughout your tenure. In line with this policy, Dr Johnson is hereby deployed to Cross River State while Mr. Gajiram is deployed to Taraba State. ”Your deployment today is coming just three days to the conduct of several re-run elections by court order. On Saturday this week, elections will hold in 28 constituencies spread across 11 States of the Federation. “Six of these elections involve entire constituencies while 22 elections will be held only in some polling units. In all the constituencies, the elections will be contested by the same political parties and candidates that participated in the 2019 general election except where the elections were nullified on grounds of candidates’ disqualification. “The two affected constituencies are Gamawa Federal Constituency in Bauchi State and Agwara State Constituency in Niger State where elections will be held without the candidates and parties that were declared winners in the general elections. There will be no substitution of candidates as these are not bye-elections but court-ordered re-run elections and the period for nomination of candidates had lapsed since the end of 2018 in preparation for the 2019 general elections,” Yakubu said.  