Oyo State Government has rejected the purported intervention of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) in the raging controversy over local government dissolution in the state, warning him to steer clear of the issue. The Attorney-General of Oyo State, Professor Oyelowo Oyewo, in a four-page response to a letter by the AGF, said though the AGF did not submit the said letter to his office, he had to source the same from the social media in view of the weighty nature of the issues. According to him, the AGF has no business dabbling into the matter of local government dissolution in Oyo State which is pending before the Court of Appeal. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Taiwo Adisa on Thursday, the commissioner said the statement credited to Malami was uncalled for, misguided and lacking in merit, as far as the constitution of Nigeria is concerned. He maintained that Malami’s letter dated 14 January, 2020, was written without adequate information and knowledge of the current position of the subject matter of dissolution of local government in the state. According to the statement, the issue of local government dissolution in Oyo state is a subject of stay/appeal that is pending before the Court of Appeal in two cases including Governor of Oyo State Vs Basorun Bosun Ajuwon, Appeal no CA/IB/300/2019 and Basorun Majeed Bosun Ajuwon Vs Governor of Oyo State CA/IB/362/2019. “It is also instructive to note that parties have filed their respective briefs of argument and the appeals have now been fixed for the 19th of February, 2020,” the statement read. The Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice equally declared that only the court and not the AGF could pronounce an order on the matter, which was subjudice. He called on Malami to rise above partisan politics and advise parties to await judgment of the court in the various appeals. He added that the Constitution of the country had empowered states to ensure the existence and functioning of local governments, noting that it was not aware of any Act of the National Assembly that empowered the AGF to write the letter in which he purportedly barked orders at the state government. 