Breaking the silence over sudden resurgence of Boko Haram terrorists attacks along Maiduguri- Damaturu highway, the Theatre Commander Operation Lafiya Dole, Major General Olusegun Adeniyi, has cautioned motorists against fake checkpoints mounted on the highway by the terrorists. The Theatre Commander further explained that motorists should not stop at any check point except those officially designated at certain locations along the highway, noting that, the only official checkpoints are located at Benisheikh, Jakana, Auno, Mainok and Njimtilo towns and villages along the highway. Major General Adeniyi made the disclosure this at an interactive session with Journalists at the command and control centre of Operation Lafiya Dole, Maiduguri. He attributed the terrorists resurgence of attacks on the road as sign of their failure to establish a Caliphate in any part of the Nigerian territory. He further revealed that most of the captives abducted by the Boko Haram terrorists are used as slaves in fishing, farming activities in most of their enclaves. The Commander said the terrorists henceforth will face the wrath of the Nigerian Military if they continue their attacks on the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway, adding that the military has retrategised operations along the major road to safeguard lives and property. Major General Adeniyi said:” Five months ago when I took over as the Theatre Commander, I promised to take the fight to the terrorists. In the recent time , there has been a lot of terrorists activities along Maiduguri-Damaturu highway. So this press conference is to address some of the issues affecting the road. ” Failure of the Boko Haram terrorists to achieve the goal of establishing a Caliphate which has failed, made them resort to attacking soft targets such as the Maiduguri- Damaturu highway and other areas . It is now clear to them that they cannot achieve that. “My message to the terrorists is that their plan will not work. We have retrategised against the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway . Operation Lafiya Dole is capable of making Maiduguri-Damaturu highway safe. The failure of the terrorists on the field is responsible for the sudden attacks on the road. “The modus operandi of the Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorist is to block the highways, putting on military camouflage uniforms, disguising as Nigerian troops at unregistered checkpoints on the roads. “Let me use this opportunity to let travellers and motorists know that except those officially designated checkpoints at certain locations along the highway, such as at Benisheikh, Jakana, Auno, Mainok and Njimtilo towns and villages along the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway, any other checkpoint is fake,” the Theatre Commander further said.