The Convergence Council of the Ministers of Finance and Economy and Governors of Central Bank of the Member States of the West African Monetary Zone (WAMZ) have expressed concern over the unilateral adoption of “Eco” by some countries within the ECOWAS region as their common currency. The ECOWAS heads of state had after a meeting in Abuja in December adopted the draft report on adoption of “Eco” as the name of the proposed single currency for the region. WAMZ said the declaration by the chairman of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU), Alasane Outtarra on December 21, 2019 to unilaterally rename the CFA Franc as “Eco” by 2020 betrays the earlier agreement by member states. About eight French-speaking ECOWAS member countries had in December 2019 announced its decision to rename the CFA Franc as “Eco” by 2020.   WAMZ Convergence Council stressed that the action is not in line with the decisions of the Heads of State and Government of ECOWAS on adoption of the “Eco” as the name of an independent ECOWAS Single Currency. “WAMZ Convergence Council wishes to emphasise that this action is not in line with the decisions of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of ECOWAS for the adoption of the “Eco” as the name of an independent ECOWAS Single Currency,” the Council said in a communiqué that was read at the end of their extra-ordinary meeting in Abuja on Thursday. The communiqué was read by Nigeria’s minister if Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed. WAMZ Convergence Council re-iterated the importance for all ECOWAS member countries to adhere to the decisions of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government towards the implementation of the revised roadmap of the ECOWAS single currency programme.   As a way to discuss this matter and other related issues, WAMZ Convergence Council recommended that an extraordinary Summit of the Authority of Heads of State and Government of the WAMZ Member States be convened soon. The meeting which was held under the chairmanship of the minister for Economy and Finance, Republic of Guinea, Mamadi Camara had two representatives each from Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone also in attendance.