To protect Nigerians, especially the travelling public from the rampaging coronavirus outbreak, the federal government has begun routine checks on persons entering the country through the nation’s airports. The task is assigned to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), which has swung into action by directing passengers and other airport users to comply with all quarantine procedures at Nigeria‘s airports. FAAN said yesterday that the move became necessary to prevent the spread of coronavirus and other communicable diseases to Nigeria. In a statement issued by FAAN general manager, public affairs, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, the agency said that it had already taken proactive steps by ensuring that equipment and personnel used in combating the deadly Ebola virus in 2014 were still in place at the airports.   Mrs Yakubu said that FAAN had always had thermal scanners in the airports that monitors the temperature of passengers as well as capture their pictures. According to her, “when passengers walk pass the scanner, it registers their temperature and if too high, they are pulled aside for observation.” Coronavirus, a deadly virus recently broke out in China and has since killed six people, with over 300 reportedly infected. The highly communicable virus has spread to border countries including Japan, Thailand and South Korea. Yakubu added that FAAN, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, had established the adequacy of the facilities at the nation’s airports to prevent the importation of the virus through the airports.   „Passengers are, therefore, advised to submit themselves for routine quarantine checks whenever they are asked to,” she said Already, some Nigerian travellers are apprehensive following the growing number of people infected with coronavirus in China and its spread to other cities in South East Asia. Agency reports explained that coronavirus is a new virus in China that has not previously been identified in humans but now spreading fast with more than 200 cases, mostly in Wuhan, while the respiratory illness has also been detected in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. Although, there is no reported case in Nigeria, some air passengers told LEADERSHIP yesterday that they were worried by the development, stressing that it was the same manner that Sars virus started and killed many people in the early 2000s across dozens of countries, mostly in Asia. One of the air passengers, Peter Ajaro told LEADERSHIP at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, that he was sure that there was no reported case in the country. Ajaro, however, charged the authorities to be more vigilant as most passengers arrive into the country from South East Asia regularly. Another passenger, Bilikisi Bawa, who said that she was yet to know more about the virus, simply said: „I heard it but I have not known much about the disease. All I can say is that we should be very careful.“  Cautions Against Contact With Sick Persons, Animals Meanwhile, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has urged travellers from Nigeria to Wuhan, China to avoid contact with sick people, animals (alive or dead), and animal markets. This was contained in the centre‘s public health advisory, issued yesterday in response to the current outbreak of coronavirus in China. In the advisory, the first case of a novel (new) coronavirus (2019nCoV) strain was confirmed in China on 7th January, 2020. It said that preliminary investigations showed that most patients either visited or worked in the Huanan Seafood wholesale market, Wuhan city. As at 20th January, 2020, 278 laboratory-confirmed cases of 2019-nCoV infection while six deaths have been reported to the World health Organisation (WHO) globally since the first case was reported on 31st December, 2019. Many of the initial cases were thought to have contacted the virus through animal-to-human transmission from the market, but human-to-human transmission has also been established. NCDC said that travellers from Wuhan to Nigeria may be asked questions upon arrival by the Port Health Services unit at points of entry about symptoms of illness and travel history, while advising them to report immediately to the centre, if they feel ill after a trip to Wuhan. The centre, however, stated that it is currently coordinating a multi-sectoral technical group that is assessing and managing the risk of importation to the country, adding that it is also in close communication with WHO, which is closely monitoring the situation globally. „WHO is in direct communication with the government of China and other affected countries, and has released technical and travel guidance. “The Port Health Services unit of the Federal Ministry of Health in Nigeria has been placed on alert and has heightened screening measures at the points of entry. In China, exit screening measures have been enhanced for travellers from Wuhan city at the Points of Entry (PoE) (airports and ground transport stations) since 14th January, 2020. “This includes temperature checks, combined with provision of information and masks to passengers with fever, as well as directing symptomatic passengers to health facilities for follow up,“ NCDC said. After an emergency meeting, WHO identified signs of infection to include respiratory symptoms, fever, cough, shortness of breath and breathing difficulties.  It advised people to avoid „unprotected“ contact with live animals, thoroughly cook meat and eggs, and avoid close contact with anyone with cold or flu-like symptoms. Concerns further heightened as the United States (US) was said to have recorded the first casualty from the virus outbreak.