The Kebbi State governor, Senator Abubakar Bagudu, yesterday, inaugurated 21 local government education authorities chairmen to support the implementation of Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA) programme designed to bring back the out of school children. The chairmen, who are academia comprising fourteen university professors and seven PhD holders are indigenes of Kebbi State drawn from various tertiary institutions. Bagudu expressed utmost happiness over the sacrifice made by the University dons in accepting to serve the state despite their tight academic schedules. He described the event as landmark history saying “my joy knows no bound by the honor done to Kebbi State”. He observed that their participation would in no small measure help the state in trying to reshape the educational sector so that it would become a model to other states to copy. He commended the dons for accepting to serve the state as part-time chairmen of Local Government Education Authorities as well as their zeal in meeting the desired goals.He said he was proud by the mandate given to him by the 21 local government council chairmen relying on their powers section 13 of the universal basic education law 2005 which stipulated that the local education authorities to be chaired by part-time chairmen. The governor lamented the long decay in the educational sector describing it as ‘systematic decay’ largely due to inadequate funds. He emphasised that such challenges must be tackled with all the seriousness it deserves. Governor Bagudu pledged to support the part-time chairmen in carrying out their work assuring them of free access to him anytime in carrying out their function. He pointed out that what was required for the proper education of a primary school child amounted to 700 dollars by world bank but this could not be applicable in Nigeria due to limited resources. He drew examples from the Scandinavian countries that invested their very best to develop education by committing the required funding to the educational sector. The governor commended the consultant appointed by the federal government to supervise the implementation of Better Education Service Delivery for All (BESDA), Professor Abubakar Abdullahi Bagudo for assisting in assembling an array of professionals to work collectively towards meeting target objectives. The BESDA chairmen are as follows; Prof Ibrahim Hussaini (Aliero); Dr Muhammed Aminu Bui (Arewa); Prof Rabi Muhammed (Argungu); Prof Muhd Aminu Bayawa (Angie); Prof Ibrahim Muhd Bandi Zagga (Bagudo); Prof Umar Aliyu Chika (Birnin Kebbi); Prof Aliyu Muhd Bunza (Bunza);Dr Samaila Kamba( Dandi); Dr Nasir Muhd Baba (Danko Wasagu) and Prof Muhd Garba Mahuta  (Fakai). Others include Dr Muhd Shalla Bello (Gwadu); Prof Suleiman Khalid (Jega); Prof Faruku Aliyu Kalgo (Kalgo); Prof Abubakar Dan Baba (Koko/Besse); Dr Balarabe Isah Adamu (Maiyama); Prof Umar Abubakar B/ Yauri (Ngaski); Prof Sanusi Muhd (Sakaba); Dr Ahmed Atuwo (Shanga); Dr Sodangi Umar (Suru); Prof Sadiq  Abdullahi Yelwa (Yauri) and Dr Sani  Dantani Manga (Zuru).