The Global Action for Peace has alerted the United States and Britain over the safety of its citizens in Nigeria following threat by the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN). The proscribed radical Islamic sect had hinted of an impending attack on foreigners after a military action by the United States led to the death of top Iranian military commander, General Qassem Soliemani, in Iraq. In a press conference yesterday in Abuja, the convener, Global Action for Peace, Dr Joseph Agbo revealed that the threat issued by the IMN to citizens of the US and the United Kingdom in Nigeria is an “affront to our collective sensibilities as Nigerians, which must be looked into by the security agencies.”
Agbo stated that this action is an indication of the zero regards they have for the constituted authorities in the country. He further advised the United States and the United Kingdom to see this as a clarion call and activate measures that would support the efforts of the security agencies in Nigeria in curtailing the threats posed by the IMN. He said: “The action by the IMN should give all well-meaning Nigerians a cause for concern given the fact that the Federal Government of Nigeria hasn’t made any official statement given the position of the United Nations over the military face-off between the United States of America and Iran”.  “However, you may recall that it was because of its extremist and terrorist tendencies and the attendant dangers it posed to national security that made the Kaduna State government and later the Federal Government of Nigeria to proscribe the activities of the IMN in Nigeria.” Agbo, therefore, urged these nations to blacklist the sect known for violence and bloodshed. He also advised the United States and the United Kingdom to see this as a clarion call and activate measures that would support the efforts of the security agencies in Nigeria in curtailing the threats posed by the IMN. “This is highly necessary given the fact that the IMN is now a global threat,” he added.