A socio-cultural group in Delta State, Njiko Ndi Anioma Worldwide has endorsed the operation Amotekun proposed by the six states of South Western part of the country, saying it will help in community policing. The group in a statement signed by its general secretary, Dr. Israel CN Oseafiana and President General, Ogbuefi Austin Nkeze explained that they would support the initiative provided that the security-based organisation will operate within the ambit of the laws of Nigeria. The group which gave the endorsement  in Lagos in an official statement issued yesterday, advised that, when established the group should not allow themselves to be hi-jacked by individuals or groups for personal gains. Other factors suggested by members of Njiko Ndi Anioma are that it should not become a structure to be used against perceived political opponents, within the region or beyond and that it should be an operation that will serve the collective interest of all Nigerians and particularly indigenes and residents in the region. While advising that Amotekun should form a healthy synergy with other State security agencies in the discharge of its duties and be accountable, the group in the statement the primary responsibility of any government is to ensure the maintenance of law and order and safe-guard lives and property of her citizens and residents. It stated that in Nigeria, government seems to have no clue about the solution to the numerous security challenges confronting the nation, just as armed robbery, kidnapping, be-heading etc. has now become an hourly occurrence in a nation endowed by the Almighty with abundant human and natural resources. According to the group, “At public and private functions, officials of government have openly stated that the present security architecture in the country has failed and it’s not working. “It is therefore left to reason why a government heralded into power with a ‘change mantra’ would refuse to change what is widely acclaimed to have failed and obsolete.”