Sen. Abdulazeez Nyako, says a proposed roadmap documents plan to end farmer/herder lingering crisis, have reached advanced stage of development, would soon be  presented to government of Adamawa state for ratification, approval and implementation. Nyako made this known  in Yola over the weekend, at forum organized by  ADC state assembly candidate in the 2019 general polls in the state. He said the documents which is at operational level of development is in collaboration with leadership of the Lutheran World Federation church headed by Archbishop Panti Filibus and the Jama’atu Nasrul Islam in the state. He lamented the inability of  predecessor governments for lack of implementing resolutions of committee of enquiry into farmer/herders unrest. The lawmaker suggested for military new tactics to affrrss insurgents in the Northeast he noted, “They have been downgraded in a way. “In 2013 or thereabouts, they were strong enough to fight large formations, but after many onlaughts against them reduced their numbers, they resorted to guerilla tactics, which makes them difficult to curtail. “Nigeria as a nation has to evolve new tactics to deal with the situation. This kind of approach has to be intelligence heavy and there must be a connection between the civilian population and the security agencies where you could have quick transfer of information on the side of the security agencies. “But then, on the part of the government, you must create a programme that caters to the wellbeing of the people. ” Majority of those in Boko Haram are not driven by any doctrine but by extreme poverty. If you sow poverty, you reap insecurity, by way of kidnapping, cattle rustling, insurgency and other claims people are making. Now, has enough been done to alleviate the suffering of the people? the lawmakers queried “The answer to both questions is no. The reason for government is welfare and security of the people. If you can address poverty, the socioeconomic issues leading to these crises will go down drastically. If you make life bearable and a few decide for criminality, maybe you can now use force against them. First, the underlining factor of welfare must be addressed. On the outcry quest to change the current service chiefs he said, “It is not a function of who the service chiefs are or whether or not they have run out of ideas. We can’t push all the blame to them or to the armed forces. “For me the bulk of the blame should go to us, the political class. What are we doing to address these fundamental issues causing unrest in our communities? “The political class is not doing its part and whenever there is any crisis they say send the military. The military is overstretched fatigued. The military is tired. When we were having our campaign, I stopped by Hong local government area. I ran into someone I knew. I asked, how long have you been in deployment around this place? He said seven years. I said when last did you see your family? He said two and a half years ago. I asked where the family were and he said Ikeja Cantonment. I asked, when last did you see Madam? He said two and a half years ago. What kind of thing is that? The armed forces are overstretched. On the Operation Amotekun he explained “When I was in the Senate, they asked us to remove the Police from the exclusive legislative list. We did not. The fact of the matter is that some places require the form of policing that should be done locally while you divulge some of the powers of the police. I am a firm supporter if such arrangement. But we refused as a Senate to provide for state police because of abuse. We have seen what governors do to their people when it is time for politicking. If they have a police force under their command, what do you think they will do? Let’s look at the South Where the security concept is coming from. Let’s say you have a governor who suddenly becomes unpopuler. Now, he has a security outfit that he can push on the people. There will be catastrophic. Earlier, Sali Maiwake chairmam organizing committee said the event was organized to laud the Senator for his support in sponsoring too young to run and the Northeast Development Commission bill. ADC won Mayo-belwa state assembly seat and six councillor seats.