Moves by the federal government to make fuel cheaper by providing alternative to petrol known as Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) would save the country N900 billion annually, LEADERSHIP findings have shown. The minister of state for petroleum resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, recently disclosed that the proposed CNG would cost between N95 and N97 per kilogramme as against the present pump price of N145 per liter of petrol. CNG is adjudged a better alternative to petrol and diesel because it is colourless, odourless, non-toxic, but inflammable and lighter than air. Sylva said that the federal government was undergoing a pilot project with CNG in Benin City, Edo State where over 10,000 vehicles were running on it. He asserted that “Nigeria will never experience fuel scarcity again with CNG.” LEADERSHIP recalls that the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) recently announced that it supplied 18 billion litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) popularly known as petrol into the market last year. Going by the PPPRA’s figure, if the government fully implements the CNG policy which put the cost of a kilogramme at N95 as against N145 per litre of petrol, Nigerians would be saving about N900 billion yearly by migrating to CNG. Sylva had said: ‘‘What we have decided is that we should try and give the masses an alternative. This will move the masses to CNG. CNG costs less than the subsidised PMS. The subsidised rate of PMS is N145 per litre. CNG will cost about N95 to N97 per litre.” This revelation, however, has raised concerns among stakeholders who criticised the poor state of the country’s refineries and the absence of modular refineries and also decried the impact of the situation on Nigeria’s fragile economy. They urged the government to stop the payment of subsidy and muster the political will to rehabilitate the refineries. PPPRA executive secretary, Abdulkadir Saidu, said in Abuja recently that the total quantity of PMS supplied across the country from January to November 2019 was 18,623,992,092 litres and the PMS average sufficiency stood at 40.68 days. A breakdown of the marketers’ performance showed that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) was responsible for 99.61 per cent of the total 19,175,737,226 litres of petrol imported into the country while Major Oil Marketers of Nigeria (MOMAN) imported 0.39 per in 2019. Only 166,332,185 litres of PMS were produced locally during year. The government had proposed the use of CNG as an automotive fuel in the 1990s as part of a range of initiatives to harness natural gas resources but progress has been slow. Experts believed that the use of CNG will reduce the government’s dependence on the importation of refined products. They observed that use of CNG-powered vehicles was still at infancy and that country lacked the political will to support investment in the use of CNG to run vehicles and generating sets In the words of NipCo Plc spokesman, Taofeek Lawal, one of the prime investors and a licensee for CNG project in the country regretted that the moderate achievement in this regard was from a few private investors, and observed that the cost of conversion and availability of gas are some of the major challenges of the scheme. Lawal described the CNG project as unique in several respects, especially in resolving the petroleum products availability and subsidy crises. He said that CNG usage would reduce the massive importation of petroleum products. According to him, “CNG is not a liquid fuel and is not the same as LPG, which generally consists of propane and butane in liquid form. “The product is relatively cheaper than petrol and diesel. Also, natural gas is a clean burning fuel that reduces vehicle maintenance costs,” Lawal said, adding that since engine oil was not diluted by CNG, oil change intervals could be extended, while standard spark plugs of the engines lasted longer in CNG vehicles. Other benefits are the creation of additional employment opportunities, reduced movement of heavy tankers on roads resulting in enhanced road safety and reduction in environmental pollution from heavy automobiles. He identified other benefits as the provision of dual fuel option for the vehicles, lower exhaust emissions from CNG automobiles that lead to healthy city life, which will place the country in the league of nations that use environmental-friendly fuels. “CNG has become increasingly popular on daily basis. Nigeria being a gas-rich country, the usage of CNG will help the federal government to reduce its dependence on the importation of refined products and at the same time provide the citizens quality life. “Efforts are ongoing to get key companies in Benin to use gas for their vehicles and generating sets as it is cheaper, economical and eco-friendly as source of energy. The cost of conversion and availability of gas are some of the major challenges of this scheme, but concerted efforts are on under the joint venture arrangement to further appeal to the federal government to look into these areas,” he said. LEADERSHIP gathered that for a vehicle to be CNG compatible cost between $1,000 and $1,500. It is believed that a policy direction from the federal government could accelerate the use of CNG to power vehicles in Nigeria. At present, the Lagos State government through the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) has commenced discussions with Nigerian Independent Petroleum Company (NIPCO) on the conversion of some diesel buses to CNG. Only about 5,000 vehicles use CNG as fuel in Nigeria since the inception of the project in 2009 and CNG buses are already in use in Benin City. LAMATA is proposing five CNG buses on its BRT corridor for test-run and only about 500 vehicles run on CNG in Lagos. The commissioner for energy and mineral resources in Lagos State, Olalere Odusote, at a recent media roundtable organised by Enyo, a petroleum retail and supply company, expressed the desire of the current administration to create an enabling environment for oil companies in the state in line with its campaign for ease of doing business. He said that the current administration in Lagos was determined to promote clean energy and plans to roll out the first phase of gas-powered vehicles for public transport in 2020, which was driven by the desire of the state government to deepen the use of gas by fixing infrastructure in the state. “This sector is of outmost importance and its improvement should be a collaborative effort between   the government, private sector and the end users,”   Odusote said. The Enyo initiative is to help stakeholders to drive innovative solutions needed in the downstream sector to attain its full potential in Nigeria. The forum brought together energy correspondents, dealers and experts from finance, logistic and the oil and gas sectors and featured a panel discussion as well as two presentations, where stakeholders were urged to share insights on the industry. Previous efforts by the United States Trade and Development Agency in partnership with Oando Gas & Power Limited to evaluate the technical feasibility and economic viability of deploying CNG refueling stations around Lagos has not promoted the initiative. The feasibility study considered the requirements and the viability of utilising existing fuel retail outlets and constructing new CNG stations to strategically provide adequate spread and access across the state. The study was to assess the requirements and develop plans for CNG infrastructure, gas supply sources, mother stations, transportation and refuelling stations which include locations, gas supply, construction issues, identify and analyse policy and regulatory issues, perform an assessment of the demand for CNG from industry, electric power producers, vehicles, and other markets and assess the economic and financial viability of the project. The project aimed at developing the CNG infrastructure of Nigeria’s growing pipeline network. It is anticipated that the first phase of the project will roll out approximately 10 to 15 CNG sub-stations within the Lagos metropolis, which will be supplied with the gas by the mother stations. The second phase of the project was for the implementation of an additional mother station with its respective daughter stations in order to provide an adequate spread of refuelling locations and access to CNG across the state. In addition to the mother-daughter stations, it was estimated that at least 10 CNG retrofit and CNG- vehicle maintenance and repair facilities will need to be established throughout the state. The establishment of this CNG infrastructure was meant to facilitate the development of multiple industries, including small-scale captive electric power generation and industrial processing using CNG as feedstock or fuel. Also, Green Gas Limited undertook a CNG plant project at Ibafon, Ogun State. The multi-billion dollar project will produce CNG to power buses. The plant is a joint venture between NIPCO and Nigerian Gas Company (NGC). It was agreed that the GGL will set up 35 CNG filling stations in different parts of the country before the end of 2015. Already, GGL has established seven service stations, while 10 additional outlets have reached advanced stage of construction. Four of the stations are located on Benin-Warri dual carriageway and two on the Benin-Asaba dual carriageway. One is on the Benin-Lagos dual carriageway (in Ondo and Ibafo in Ogun), another one on Benin-Abuja expressway and one in Delta.  