European Union (EU) has announced a €26.5 million emergency package for conflict victims in the North East of Nigeria. Over 160,000 more people have been forced to flee their homes in the North East as a result of increase in violence, EU also stated. The emergency package which is the first for the 2020 according to the European Commissioner for Crisis Management, Janez Lenarcic is to provide food aid, access to clean water and sanitation facilities, shelter, basic primary healthcare and education for children caught up in the conflict. Speaking to journalists yesterday in Abuja, Lenarcic stressed the importance of access for the aid workers. He said: “I saw first-hand today, the suffering that conflict has brought to people’s lives and how crucial humanitarian aid is to people’s survival.  What matters most is that humanitarian Organisations can reach all the people in need, without restrictions, including in areas under the influence of non-state armed groups. “It is vital that all states and parties to armed conflicts respect their obligation to allow and facilitate the rapid and U impeded passage of humanitarian relief.” EU Commissioner also added, “It is also key to implement in parallel a comprehensive strategy in the region, exploring political tracks while addressing the root causes of conflict.” In his remarks, the United Nations Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator in Nigeria, Mr. Edward Kallon stressed the need for safety of aid workers regretted that two aid workers abducted in March 2018 and July 2019 were yet to be released. “Our ability to provide humanitarian assistance to millions of people affected by the crisis wwill depend on a secure environment, for the civilians and we are here to assist, as well as the safety of our aid workers, majority whom are Nigerians. “Our ability to respond also depends on the trust we have in our respective actions towards our common goal of supporting the most vulnerable people in surviving and rebuilding their lives and their communities,” he added. He noted that in 2020, the target is to reach 5.8 million people in conflict areas; stressing that the current situation demands increased collaboration among all actors and stakeholder to prevent the crisis from spiralling to levels seen three years ago. On her part, the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar-Farouq assured EU of government’s support to ensure safety of humanitarian aid workers in areas of conflict. 