Residents of Kuje area council have raised the alarm over the increasing heaps of refuse that are dumped in parts of Kuje town and other areas, lamenting the inability of the council administration to evacuate them. Residents, who made this known noted that the rising heaps of refuse in various parts of the area council, especially along major roads and open spaces across the council area, is a sign of impending epidemic, especially during the raining season. A resident of Quarters Area in the council, Mr. Sunny Chukwuemeke, pointed out that leaving the waste in the area was not in the interest of the people and human health, just as he condemned the indiscriminate dumping of refuse in various parts of the council, especially along the Kuje township stadium. “The heaps of waste keep getting worse; some major roads and drainage have even been blocked. Clearly, there is no plan by the local government to improve the situation. Government must come up with a plan where each house will be taxed a particular amount. We cannot continue like that,” he said. Another resident, Ms. Joy Dantani, said that the council is gradually becoming an eyesore with heaps of refuse at every corner of the town. “Considering the harmful effects of refuse on human health, the area council administration should do everything possible to rid the town of the indiscriminate refuse dumps. Waste evacuation is very necessary to ensure environmental cleanliness and the well-being of the people, but the authorities do not seem to realise this.” Another resident, Mr Emeka Okafor, said that the area council authorities had stationed refuse bins along the road for residents, but lamented that none had ever been evacuated, noting that Kuje area council being the “Food Basket of FCT” should be kept clean at all times. “The Environmental department of the council saddled with ensuring proper dumping and evacuation of waste is not really committed to the job. When the rainy season comes, flooding may likely happen because heap of wastes will block the waterways. Refuse could also be a breeding ground for mosquitoes which can lead to the spread of diseases,” he pointed out. A resident of Anguwan Gade village, Mr. Joseph Dogara, blamed the situation on the failure of the area council administration to do the right thing, just as he called on the area council to wake up to its responsibility by ensuring that the environment is kept clean at all times. Malam Aminu Sani, a resident of Kayarda area called for the re-introduction of monthly sanitation exercise to help tackle the situation.