The Edo State governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has disclosed that his administration is firming up strategies with relevant security agencies to tackle cases of farmer-herder clashes in the state. The governor spoke to journalists after the Security Council meeting, held with the state’s security chiefs and other stakeholders at Government House, in Benin City on Friday. Obaseki further reaffirmed the state government’s commitment towards improving the state’s security architecture in order to protect the lives and property of Edo citizens and residents. The governor who urged citizens to support security agencies to combat crime, said the meeting was a platform to review the security situation in the state. He said, “We have had extensive consultation. We have 1,234 crime cases on record, out of which 850 are considered serious; we have spent time reviewing and doing in-depth analysis on the incidents and categories of crime, as well as the area it’s concentrated. Over the yuletide period, crimes in Edo were significantly reduced”. Also speaking, the State Commissioner of Police, Lawan Tanko Jimeta said through the collaborative efforts of security agencies, the state has experienced a significant drop in criminal activities. On the farmer-herders clash, which led to a sad incident in Sobe, he disclosed that the security agencies have agreed to have an extended security council meeting to meet with those concerned in other to prevent such killings in future. “We know that this is the time and period of movement of cows and people around, we are putting strategy on ground to ensure it doesn’t happen again. On the case of a teacher kidnapped recently, he said, “The teacher has been released and reunited with her family. We thank the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu for his support as the helicopter he approved for surveillance in the state led to the release of the victim. All the security agencies have agreed to work together in ensuring Edo State remains crime free”.