***As US Based Krystal Okeke Pledges Educational Support The Kaduna State chapter of the Police Wives Association (POWA) has hosted the 2019 End of Year Party and Widows Empowerment program with Mrs. Habiba Ali Janga as the Chairperson of the Occasion. The empowerment program was held on the 4th of January 2020 at the IGP’s Hall, Police College, Kaduna State and witnessed the distinguished presence of Kaduna State Commissioner of Police, DCP Ali Janga, US based Humanitarian, Queen Krystal Okeke, amongst others. Speaking during the POWA the end of year and widows empowerment initiative, the Chairperson of the Occasion, Mrs. Habiba Ali Janga noted that the project was premised on empowering and improving the welfare of widows in Kaduna state, stressing that it was a way of supporting their families and helping them live better lives. She noted that by providing them with skills, it will help in assisting them to meet up with the various family responsibilities as widows and single mothers. During the empowerment ceremony, several skill acquisition equipment, cutting across sewing machines, Food Items, Cash Gifts, Kitchen Equipment and other empowerment material s were presented to women and widows. Habiba Janga expressed the pain she feels, knowing that widows in Kaduna state may have to shoulder the responsibilities of their families alone after their husbands may have lived on. The program also witnessed the presence of Queen Krystal Okeke, a US based Humanitarian, focused on Widows, Singles mothers and children, she is also the Convener of kids Multicultural Fashion Show in the US. During her speech, she Queen Krystal Okeke thanked and appreciated the Convener, Mrs. Habiba Ali Janga and her Husband CP Ali Janga for such a platform to improve and promote the affairs and women in the state. While commending efforts of the Kaduna state chapter of the Police Wives Association (POWA), Krystal Okeke pledged the commitment of sponsoring one family every year by ensuring good education through scholarship for their kids. She also promised to promote the POWA empowerment program through her African Publicist in Africa and in Chicago to earn more international supports for Widows in Kaduna state. The occasion was filled with bliss, entertainment and in a cordially delightful atmosphere which assured hope and greater opportunities for widows, single mothers and children in Kaduna state. Beneficiaries of the empowerment program expressed their gratitude to organizers of the empowerment program and assured them that the supports made towards them would be improved to yield gainful returns on the socioeconomic structure of Kaduna state.