The Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly Rt. Honourable Abubakar Suleiman has commended the Tertiary Education TrustFund (TETFUND) Executive Secretary, Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro for his unprecedented intervention in the education sector in Bauchi State. The Speaker called on the management of the polytechnic to build an edifice and name it after him. “I have gone round tertiary institutions in the State and have seen how the Fund has massively transformed the institutions with befitting edifices, equipment and human resource development”, the speaker said. While applauding the executive secretary of the fund, Professor Suleiman Bogoro for his patriotism and contribution to the development of Bauchi State, the speaker said; “I know Professor Bogoro for long and I am not surprised when I see what he has been doing for education and development in Bauchi State.” He described Professor Bogoro as a true son of the soil, saying that, “he is always looking for way to contribute toward the development of his State.” On manpower development in which the fund sponsored over 300 staff of the Institution for PhD, MSc and other interventions, the Speaker congratulated the staff and urged them to reciprocate the gesture by being hardworking and committed in imparting knowledge to students. In his remarks, the Rector of Abubakar Tatari Ali Polytechnic Bauchi Dr Sulaiman Mohammed Lame thanked the Executive Secretary for revamping the education sector in the Polytechnic, Bauchi State and the Country at large. He said ATAP under his leadership has successfully mobilized its scarce financial and human resources to achieve 100% accreditation of all its courses and expand students’ enrolment. “I am delighted to inform you that we have transformed from one accredited course (ND Computer Science) to accreditation of 116 courses at National Diploma, Higher National Diploma, NCE and degree levels. This giant achievement was possible through the Fund’s massive intervention”, the Rector said. Dr. Lame further seeks for more support from TETFUND in construction of staff offices, laboratories, workshops, hostels, school buses and sports complex. In his Speech, the executive secretary of TETFUND Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro commended the management of the Polytechnic for the judicious use of all the resources mobilized to it by the Fund. The executive secretary said he has never imagined that ATAP has reached the advance stage of development saying that the Polytechnic can compete with any polytechnic in the country. He pledged that the fund under his leadership will continue to give more interventions in tertiary institutions across the country. Professor Bogoro assured the staff of the Polytechnic that the Fund is coming up with many policies and programmes for their development and will soon resolve all issues surrounding scholars stranded in some foreign institutions. He added that with the Fund’s achievement in erecting structures in all higher institutions in the country, they will now concentrate equipping those structures.