Going by commitment witnessed in 2019, the federal government is keen to implement fiscal policies that will encourage massive investment in the oil and gas industry in 2020, writes CHIKA IZUORA. In his cheering New Year message, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, raised hope that the review of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) may likely be passed by mid-2020 as the review process is currently at an advanced stage. Industry operators and indeed the International Oil Companies (IOCs), have said that the continued delay in passing the Petroleum Industry Bill, PIB, into law is creating uncertainties. The uncertainties had delayed the take-off of fresh projects worth several billions of dollars that would grow industry capacity and reserves. According to Shell Companies in Nigeria (SCiN), its upstream exploration and production arm, Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC, has put on hold investment decisions on two key offshore oil and gas projects that would have cost about $30billion till when the new petroleum law is approved. ExxonMobil Companies Nigeria and Total E&P Nigeria Limited also expressed similar fears, saying the relevant authorities should speed up action towards getting the proposed law ready, to help the oil and gas industry continue to grow. In addition, government is likely going to launch a new oil licensing round in mid-2020 for both offshore and onshore blocks in a bid to hit its 3 million barrels a day b/d output target by 2023. Group managing director, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Mele Kyari said the bidding round will be launched after the government concludes talks with foreign oil companies on new fiscal terms for oil exploration following recent amendments to the law. Last November, Nigeria increased taxes on companies operating in its deepwater blocks but Kyari stressed that “despite the amendments, there is room for negotiations as there is hope to conclude these negotiations by mid-2020. Industry analysts have expressed concerns that the recent plans by Nigeria to hike taxes on its deepwater oil production could spur divestment by foreign oil firms from Africa’s largest producer and hinder further output growth. “There is no doubt that Nigeria has huge barrels of oil assets yet untapped, the government only needed to create the right investment climate for operators,” Ahmadu-Kida Musa, deputy managing director of Total E&P Nigeria Ltd, said at an industry event in Lagos. On November 4, President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law an amendment of the fiscal terms for existing production sharing contracts between foreign oil producers and the NNPC. This increased the government’s share of revenue from oil produced from deepwater fields. Nigeria needs the support of international oil companies to raise exploration activities in the country if it is to meet targets to raise production to 3 million b/d by 2023, Kyari added. The country’s crude and condensate production has risen sharply in the past 12 months to around 2.1 million b/d, due to the startup of the 205,000 b/d deepwater Egina field. The field came on stream in late December. Output from the deepwater fields of Bonga, Erha, Agbami, Akpo, Usan and Egina, has sustained Nigeria’s oil production in the face of a decline from its onshore blocks in the Niger Delta. This decision comes as other producers in the region have sweetened their fiscal terms to attract foreign investment into the beleaguered oil sector. Angola recently improved the fiscal terms for some oil contracts, giving international oil companies higher returns and opening up offshore and onshore basins Last year, Gabon revised its hydrocarbon code including withdrawing corporate tax to lure investment into its beleaguered oil sector. Nigeria is also looking at progressing with some key deep offshore field development. The prolific fields are the Zabazaba and the Etan fields which are located in oil prospecting lease (OPL) 245 offshore Nigeria in the Niger Delta of the Gulf of Guinea, in water depths ranging from 1,200 meter, -2,400 meter. The oil and gas fields form part of an integrated project, which is being jointly developed by Nigerian Agip Exploration (NAE) and Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO). Nigerian Agip Exploration (NAE) is also serving as the operator for the project. First production from the $13.5bn integrated development project is expected in 2020. The deepwater project is expected to support small and medium sized businesses in Nigeria, with half of the Zabazaba Floating Production Storage and Offloading, FPSO topside currently slated to be fabricated and integrated in the country. Nearly all the top unsanctioned discoveries in Nigeria are in deepwater, ranging from 125 to 1,500 meters. Operated by Anglo Dutch oil major Shell, the Bonga North field has an average water depth of 1,000 meters with resources of almost 700 million barrels of oil equivalents (boe) and is expected to be brought into development in 2028, and deepened execution process is expected this year. Its breakeven price is estimated to stand at US$56.50 per barrel while the Owowo West field, which has the lowest estimated breakeven price in the selection, below US$45.00 per barrel, holds around 550 million barrels of oil equivalent, boe and is expected to come on stream around 2025, as the process escalates this year. Refining Government is also set to commence the rehabilitation of four oil refineries in Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna in January 2020. The Group Managing Director of the NNPC, said that the corporation is determined to ensure the refineries achieve optimum refining capacity by 2022. The aim of repairing the refineries is to restore the country’s refining capacity and the Corporation is determined to close out all necessary conditions for us to deliver on the project. Nigeria is the largest oil and gas producer in Africa and crude oil from the Delta basin comes in two types: light, and comparatively heavy the lighter around 36 gravity and the heavier, 20–25 gravity. Both types are paraffinic and low in sulfur. The four refineries have a combined capacity to refine 445,000 barrels per day of crude oil. However in the last 15–20 years had a poor operating record with average capacity utilization hovering between 15 and 25 per cent per annum. The first refinery in Port Harcourt was commissioned in 1965 to process 60,000 barrels of oil per stream day (bpsd), as well as the second plant commissioned in 1989, which has a capacity of 150,000 bpsd. Both refineries have a combined capacity of 210,000 barrels per stream day making it the biggest oil refining company in Nigeria. They both had the last Turn around Maintenance (TAM) in 2000. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between Italian oil giant, Eni and NNPC which committed to the refurbishment of both Port Harcourt Refineries. Rehabilitation works will be done be in two phases, with both the ENI and the original participating in the process. At the end of the first phase, the Port Harcourt refinery is projected to reach 60 per cent capacity utilization, increasing to a minimum of 90 per cent. The decision to construct the third Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) refinery in Kaduna was taken in 1974 along with that of the second NNPC refinery located at Warri.  the refinery was designed for a capacity of 60,000 BPSD but modified to produce 100,000 BPSD. Kaduna proved to be a central location for distributing petroleum products to depots in the northern zone, as the Warri and Port Harcourt refineries proved for the supply of petroleum products to depots in the southern and middle belt zones. These efforts however, are being complemented by the Dangote Group’s decision to build a 650,000 barrels a day (bd) refinery in the Lagos area which is seen as a win-win for Nigeria with its potential to turn the country from a huge importer to a net exporter of refined petrol. Dangote’s massive refining project may not come on stream immediately due to its scale, however for Waltersmith Petroman which is building a 30,000bd modular refinery, an off-the-shelf solution to back the country’s desire to wean itself of imported petrol, its completion is possibly a touching distance going by its recent disclosure. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Mr. Timipre Sylva during his visit to the Waltersmith modular refinery located in the Ohaji/Egbema area of Imo State, the refinery has attained a 90 per cent completion status and should be ready to begin operations in May 2020. In their 2017 report: Nigeria’s refining revolution, experts at the PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) considered that the market opportunities for refined petrol in Nigeria and around its West African neighbors were too huge to be ignored especially when it is suggested that existing refineries in Gabon, Senegal and Ivory Coast are unable to meet demands which are on the rise. In their products consumption analysis, the PwC team explained that as at 2015, Nigeria’s annual consumption of petrol was at 17 billion litres, diesel – three billion litres, and aviation fuel – 400 million litres. The team added that while these were on the rise, transportation and power were the major drivers of demand for petrol and diesel especially because of the poor showings of the country’s public electricity system and citizen’s subsequent resort to self-generation. Additionally, the PwC team stated that, “with oil prices expected to remain low in the medium to long term, the focus on ramping up domestic refining capacity should become imperative,” to Nigeria because with lower oil prices come cheaper crude feedstock and higher margins for refiners would could also leverage the ever-present uncertainty in global crude oil market to shift Nigeria’s focus on crude oil production alone to crude value realisation by start of the next decade. They explained that serving as a bottoms – up approach, modular refineries such as the 30,000bd Waltersmith Petroman refinery would exist profitably alongside conventional refineries like the 650,000bd Dangote’s but with modular refineries smartly closing up demand and supply gaps of cluster consumptions. According to the PwC experts: “Modular refineries are assumed to be set up close to crude sources either within existing refineries or on onshore marginal fields. They are also assumed to be set up close to consumption clusters thereby making them better positioned for domestic supply. “On the other hand, conventional refineries are assumed to be set up to source for crude internationally and to supply both international and domestic markets.” The team at the Waltersmith Petroman refinery disclosed their intention to come on stream by the beginning of the second quarter of 2020. This would possibly make the refinery a pioneer within its class thus giving it the potential benefits and otherwise therein. Its managing director, Mr. Chikezie Nwosu however explained in a technical presentation to Sylva that they were ready for expectations. Nwosu said the refinery project was done in partnership with a government entity, the Nigerian Content Development Management Board (NCDMB) which has 30 per cent equity in it with the balance of 70 per cent left for Waltersmith. He noted that the NCDMB in addition to its equity share has provided major guidance and contributions on Nigerian content, technical and commercial issues as well as corporate governance practices to the project, adding that a final investment decision (FID) on the project was taken in September 2018 with an 18-month delivery time from November 2018 to May 2020, for its first phase. Feedstock for the refinery, he explained would come from the Egbema/Assa and Assa North/Ohaji oil fields operated by ND Western in a joint venture with the NNPC. Clearly, Nwosu said the first phase to be commissioned in May 2020 would supply 5,000bd of petroleum products with the second phase for 25,000bd also commissioned for construction in May. According to him, the project would further develop a 300 megawatts (MW) power plant which feasibility study had been concluded and FID expected by the last quarter of 2020. While inviting Sylva to commission the refinery’s first phase and groundbreaking for the second phase, he solicited his support for an ongoing commercial farm-in discussions with the joint venture of NNPC and Shell for security of production and refinery feedstock. Similarly, the firm’s chairman, Mr. AbdulRazaq Isa explained that the decision to set up the refinery was to help solve the challenges of crude oil loss from crude handling and the cost of crude transportation from the marginal fields owned by Waltersmith Petroman. He noted that the promoters have diligently worked to ensure that the delivery time for the first phase which is 18 months would not be missed, and stated that the phase one would contribute about 271 million litres of refined products including diesel, naphtha, heavy fuel oil (HFO) and kerosene annually to the domestic market in addition to the jobs it would create for the host communities. Electricity The federal government has also outlined a process that will lead to improved electricity situation this year. The President clearly assured that a further liberation of the sector would be done to eliminate lingering outages and gas shortages. Power sector inadequacy has been a major drawback on the country’s economy over the years, with the problem becoming almost intractable. Speaking to Nigerians in a message, titled: “A letter from the President at New Year Nigeria’s Decade”, Buhari raised the hope of ensuring fiscal sustainability in the power sector, increased government and private sector investment in power transmission and distribution. He promised improved payment transparency through deployment of smart meters and effective regulatory actions to maximise service delivery. He said:  “Power has been a problem for a generation. We know we need to pick up the pace of progress. We have solutions to help separate parts of the value chain to work better together. In the past few months, we have engaged extensively with stakeholders to develop a series of comprehensive solutions to improve the reliability and availability of electricity across the country. ”We have in place a new deal with Siemens, supported by the German Government after German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited us in Abuja, to invest in new capacity for generation, transmission and distribution. “These projects will be under close scrutiny and transparency – there will be no more extravagant claims that end only in waste, theft and mismanagement.”