With less than 26 days to swearing in a new administration in Bayelsa State, OSA OKHOMINA, examines the challenges ahead for the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its governor-elect, Chief David Lyon. The transition from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led administration of Governor Seriake Dickson to the All Progressive Congress (APC) administration of the governor-elect, Chief David Lyon, in Bayelsa State, is coming with lots of expectations among the populace in the state. While loyalists of the out-going administration seem despondent on their future, the APC faithful are eager for the February 14 date to mark the historic transition. Bayelsa has been a stronghold of the PDP since 1999, as such transitions in the state have been from one PDP administration to another, until the November 16, 2019 polls which saw to the defeat of PDP’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri. Checks by LEADERSHIP reveal that residents in the state capital, Yenagoa, anticipate change with the coming of David Lyon, who they expect to galvanize the state towards a more prosperous future in good governance, security, infrastructural development and unity of the state. A chieftain of the APC in the state, High Chief Olalibo Osain Ibokolo, predicted a prosperous and progressive Bayelsa, under the leadership of Lyon. Chief Olalibo, believes that the emergence of Lyon is a clear expression of the wishes of the majority of Bayelsans who have since been yearning for a change. He added, “it is anchored basically on the willful revolution by Bayelsans, through the investment of their mandates on the ballots.” Ibokolo, who has never wavered in his support for the governor-elect’s mission and purpose, however enjoined all supporters of the Bayelsa next level project, the APC family and all Bayelsans to be firm and resolute in their prayers as the momentum for a progressive takeover brews louder with a fragrance of uncommon development built on credibility. He urged the people of Bayelsa to consider the APC government as a collective one that requires all Bayelsans of goodwill to key into, by giving necessary support and meaningful contributions to the incoming administration of Chief David Lyon. He added that, the progress and prosperity of Bayelsa is about to come into manifestation, through Lyon, whom he described as a God sent. But political observers in the state argue that the task before the APC governor-elect goes beyond popular demand, for them expectations are high and it requires judicious management of resources to meet these expectations. Although, the outgoing governor, Seriake Dickson, has done his part, there are huge voids yet to be filled in the areas of economy, infrastructures, security, environment, health, education, public service and Ijaw unity. A public affairs analyst and state coordinator of the Environmental Right Action (ERA), Comrade Alagoa Morris, said the expectations of the people are high. According to him, “except one who is not a keen observer, it is very obvious that the expectations of the people on the incoming administration of David Lyon is very high. “However, for some of us who have been advocating for positive change in the form of delivery of dividends of democracy; we cannot afford to go to sleep until our communities and people experience service delivery. For some Bayelsans, the mere fact that their preferred candidate has won is enough for them; they will go to sleep. “There is yet another set of Bayelsans who would relax after getting political appointments and they wouldn’t bother whether the dividends of democracy are delivered to the communities and people or not. These are nothing, but selfish individuals, and they are in the majority.” Morris said security should be the first priority for the incoming governor, lamenting that insecurity had left the economy of the state in comatose. He observed that sea pirates, robbers and kidnappers were terrorizing fishermen, travelers and investors. “Armed robbery in the state capital and environs and the rising cases of cult-related violence all combined to give a negative image to the state. I am aware that the governor-elect is not new on security matters; being engaged in providing security services to the Nigerian Agip Oil Company and doing fantastic job. “So, his administration should take a more holistic approach by consulting critical stakeholders, including communities, with a view to effectively bringing the security threat to as low as possible. We need to ply the creeks without fear of attacks; same on the roads and on the streets of Yenagoa. In dealing with this, there should be no nepotism; all should be treated equally according to the law. If possible, there should be coast guards, to monitor and patrol the waterways and shorelines,” he said.  Landmines on Lyon’s path Already, the incoming ruling party, the APC have expressed concern over what it considers as landmines being laid down on its path by the outgoing administration. In the last few months, after the governorship poll, Dickson’s administration have allegedly engaged in accelerated appointments and secret employment that increased upward the workforce. At the last count, according to some APC faithful, Dickson’s administration has moved the workforce from less than 4,000 to 6,000. More worrisome is the fact that the N30,000 minimum wage being stalled for months was also approved by the administration. An APC chieftain who pleaded anonymity, alleged that all these actions were targeted at pitch the incoming administration against the people of the state. The leadership of APC in the state has however faulted the recent appointment of 32 permanent secretaries into the state civil service, and others to ministries and departments in the state. According to APC, though the party is not averse to such appointments, especially if they are in tandem with civil service rules and regulations, the appointments are in bad taste just as the motive is clearly political and an effort to put the incoming government on a bad light by ensuring that we are financially strangulated. The APC, through its State Secretary, Comrade Alabo Martins, in a statement issued in Yenagoa, expressed concern over the alleged clandestine indiscriminate employment going on across various MDAs without recourse to due process. According to the him, “While we are not averse to such appointments, especially if they are in tandem with civil service rules and regulations, we wish to express our reservation with regard to the timing as the appointments are made less than three months to the expiration of the present administration, immediately after elections. “We are aware of the recent government special announcement regarding the appointment of thirty two permanent secretaries in the state civil service. We are also aware that there are several clandestine indiscriminate employment going on across various MDAs without recourse to due process.” The incoming ruling party, however, expressed concern that the outgoing administration ought to have filled vacancies left unfilled since it was aware of that such vacancies in the top echelon of the public service of the state was creating a lull in the service. “No doubt, the appointments are in bad taste just as the motive is clearly political and an effort to put the popular in coming government on a bad light by ensuring that we are financially strangulated. ”We appreciate the fact that until February 14, 2020, the present administration has the constitutional powers to hire and fire but this responsibility should be carried out in the best interest of the state and its people. We must say that the present scenario is just for the satisfaction of some political interests and therefore falls far short of the wider interests of the state. ”We advise the government to concentrate on completing uncompleted projects, such as the 8year old Isaac Boro express way. We also call on Bayelsans to hold the restoration government response in the future if some of these decisions are reviewed for the betterment of Bayelsa. ”We are aware that employment is a means of empowering citizens of the state, mostly the youths. It curtails restiveness and other social vices in the state. However, the employment of the restoration government does not follow acceptable procedures, apart from the forest officers and few others,” the APC said. A civil rights group in the state, the Bayelsa Rainbow Coalition for Good Governance, thereby advised the governor-elect, Lyon, to be careful with the last minute decisions of the outgoing governor, Dickson, in order to avoid making early mistakes in government. Chairman of the group Francis Wainwei, explained that most of the people appointed by Dickson were not even qualified to be permanent secretaries according to the civil service rules. The coalition chairman, flanked by the chairman of Civil Society Advance Forum for SDGs 2030, Chief Clifford Joseph Wilson, said the last minute appointments by Dickson were not in the best interest of Bayelsans but to place high wage bill on the incoming government. But the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide said following the assumption of office, Lyon should jettison politics and coordinate the infrastructural development of Bayelsa. President of IYC, Eric Omare outlined key projects that the coming government should drive their completion. Omare said: “As a stakeholder in the Ijaw nation, I expect the incoming governor of Bayelsa State, Chief David Lyon, upon assumption of office, to set politics aside and face the business of service delivery by providing the basic necessities of life, which Bayelsans lack in the midst of plenty. “In this regard, I expect the incoming governor to address the infrastructural deficits in roads, housing/reclamation, health, education and to a limited extent, power. In the area of roads, I expect Chief David Lyon to concentrate on the completion of the roads that are referred to as three Senatorial Roads. “These roads are the road from Ogbia to Brass, which is already at Nembe town now through the effort of the NDDC. I expect the incoming governor to strengthen this collaboration and extend the road to Brass to take advantage of the huge economic opportunities, especially tourist attractions that abound in that area. ”Then, the Yenagoa to Oporomor to Kolo-Ama road in Bayelsa Central should be given attention. This road would link the hinterland to the sea and oil-rich Kolo-Ama community with great economic potential. Finally, the Bayelsa West road from Sagbama to the seaport town of Agge deserves all the attention. This road would bring the Agge seaport to live and dramatically change the economy of Bayelsa State. “I must make the point that these road projects would require the active collaboration of the federal government, especially the NDDC. I expect Lyon, who is of the APC, to take advantage of his party links to constructively engage the federal government and its agencies. As far as I am concerned, these roads are the most important projects for Bayelsans and if I were the governor of Bayelsa State, I would not embark on an airport project that gulps 70 billion-plus without these basic roads.” Omare, who is also an environmental activist, said the incoming administration should seek ways to curb deforestation caused by excesses of lumberjacks who engage in indiscriminate felling of trees. He recommended the establishment of Forest Guards; issuance of licenses to loggers and enactment of laws to control the menace. He said the Environmental Rights Action/ Friends of the Earth Nigeria [ERA/FoEN] once suggested the establishment of a flood and erosion commission to tackle the ecological problems facing the state, including perennial flooding. He listed the communities suffering from coastal erosion threats as Abobiri, Ayama and lately Otiokpoti , Koluama, Odioama, Okpoama, Twon-Brass, Sangana, Peremabiri, Olugbobiri, Okpotuwari, Lasukgbene, Oyeregbene, Famgbe, Obogoro, Polaku, Koroama, Odi, Kaiama [Northern part], Okoloba, Anibeze among others and appeal to Lyon to tackle the issue. The Ijaw leader said Lyon should explore the establishment of a flood and erosion commission or agency that would be properly funded to collaborate with Federal Government Interventionist agencies and other International Development partners to tackle ecological threats frontally. “Only a chief executive who feels concerned about the plight of our communities and determined to end or minimize the same can take this positive stance. And, I hope the incoming administration will give deserved consideration,” he said. Adding that, “While working effectively with the local governments, all incidents of environmentally sensitive matters should be properly documented, especially oil industry-induced pollution and related conflicts or crises. “It would be a disservice to the state, if it turns out to be that the oil companies see the incoming administration as theirs because of David Lyon’s engagement with the them, especially Agip; if what is due our people and communities are denied. Not only should Oil spills be promptly addressed, contained, mopped up, cleaned and impacted area remediated, victims should be compensated where the case requires it.”  Possible Pitfalls Many Bayelsans are already expressing fears over the issues of ‘sharing of spoils’ by thousands of APC faithful at the state and national levels. Pundits are already predicting that a scenario where many Bayelsa APC chieftains from the camp of minister of state for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, who is regarded as the leader of the party in the state will begin to have a sense of entitlement in Lyon’s administration. They would argue that they have been in the trenches for too long and as such should be regarded as top beneficiaries of the administration. Sylva, a former governor of the state has kept the opposition torch burning all through the years Dickson held sway as governor. Other analysts opined that perhaps a major litmus test for Lyon would be how he handles his relationship with Sylvia with regards to appointments into office and control of the party structures. On the other hand, members of the PDP who fell out with the Dickson administration and helped in the victory of the APC would also lay claim to having a top share in the spoils of the political war. Keen observers in the state also point to the questions over a seeming selective approach to issue of cultism in the state despite the promise to ensure security. In the past, successive administrations were accused of covert support for cult groups. This was part of the reasons successive anti-cultism policies failed. In some cases, known cultists were given political appointments in order to sustain the patronage of their dreaded groups and used to hunt political enemies. Some cultists are alleged to be granted freedom from security custody despite being on alleged murder charge. However, a former Niger Delta militant leader, Mr Eris Paul, has advised the Bayelsa State governor-elect, Lyon, not to consider ex-agitators for political appointments. Paul said the state is in need of selfless persons who would make the suffering and burden of the people light without expecting anything in return. He noted that ex-militants should rather seek ways of partnering with the governor-elect to move the state forward on the path of peace, security and development. Paul said, “Instead of joining the bandwagon of political appointment-seekers in the state, they (the ex-militants) should support the governor-elect on an all-inclusive project; monitoring committees for quality infrastructure and acceptable standards of projects to compete with other cities in the developed world. “The shame I cannot share in, is the backwardness of our state in terms of development. If they are not careful about their feelings or the hustles for self-lifting political appointments, they may lose their respect from the people.” The IYC leader,  Omare, also appealed to the incoming governor to avoid some pitfalls especially politics of patronage. He said, “It doesn’t mean that everybody that has worked for him or party members must be appointed into government and almost the entire state resources used to service politicians at the expense of development of the state. “A bigger part of the resources should be used for the development of the state and not to service politicians. I also expect the incoming governor to carefully appoint honest people who can honestly advise him and not sycophants.” He urged the incoming governor to learn from the experience of the outgoing governor whom he said had a lot of sycophants as advisers. Omare also urged against associating with blackmailers stressing that, “this is one of the industries that thrive in Bayelsa State.” “Anybody that is a blackmailer should not find any space in his government. I also expect the incoming governor to maintain his humility and take advise from honest people and talk less, unlike outgoing Governor Dickson who claims to know all and doesn’t listen to the views of others. And most importantly, the incoming governor should take the unity of the Ijaw nation very serious. “As governor of Bayelsa State and political leader of Ijaw people, he must regard all Ijaw people as one and his people unlike Governor Dickson who regarded some people as his enemies and some as his friends. “This contributed greatly to the failure of the Dickson’s administration and Lyon must avoid it. He must prioritise the unity of the Ijaw nation struggle platforms that is the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) and Ijaw National Congress (INC) and not to support any divisive action like Governor Dickson,” he noted.