Last year, Nigerians woke up to a horror story of how one Hamisu alias Wadume, a high-profile kidnap kingpin in Taraba State was set free allegedly by military officers after his painstaking arrest in the state by a special team of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) operatives from Abuja. Wadume was being transported to Abuja on August 6, 2019 after his initial arrest by the police officers on a covert operation before they were attacked by troops of 93 Battalion based in Takum, Taraba State, who eventual freed the suspect on the pretext that he was rescued from ‘kidnappers’. The attack by Soldiers at a checkpoint led to the death of three officers including a civilian while Wadume was set free by the soldiers. You will be forgiven to think you are reading a script from a Nollywood movie. Three of Nigeria’s finest police officers were killed – the same men involved in arresting high profile kidnappers and other criminals. The deceased officers were Inspector Mark Ediale, Sergeant Usman Danzumi, and Sergeant Dahiru Musa. The Nigeria Police Force disclosed that the trio were part of the team responsible for the arrest of notorious kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike, also known as Evans, in 2017. They were also part of a crack team that rescued Musa Umar Uba, an in-law of President Muhammadu Buhari, who was in captivity for two months sometimes in 2019. They were also part of the team that arrested Umar Abdulmalik Overall, a Boko Haram commander, as well as 22 Boko Haram terrorists responsible for the 2014 abduction of 276 schoolgirls in Chibok, Borno state. The incident led to a bad blood between the Army and Police and once again brought to the fore the issue of inter-agency rivalry among the security agencies in the country. However, Wadume was eventually re-arrested by IRT in the late hours of Monday, August 19, 2019, at a hideout at Layin Mai Allo, Hotoro area of Kano State. A Defence panel was set up to investigate the matter had since released its report, blaming both services. The panel found that both the Police and Army were responsible for the incident. The Defence Headquarters in a statement said the panel submitted its findings and linked the deadly confrontation to a breakdown in communication between the police team that went on the operation in Taraba State and the soldiers manning a checkpoint in the state. The panel recommended additional investigation of Messrs Balarabe Wadume and Bala, four police officers and the divisional crime officer in Ibi, Taraba state, to establish their involvement in the fatal incident before prosecution. Since then, nothing is being heard about the incident. The question right now is where is key suspect Wadume? Since the panel released its report, I have not heard anything about Wadume being charged to court or any form of punishment meted out to the errant soldiers. The chief of army staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, is a well-known disciplinarian and has always wielded the big stick against errant officers. We expect him to dismiss the officers concerned and at the same time I also expect the police to charge Wadume to court. The matter should not be allowed to be swept under the carpet. The gallant police officers should not be allowed to die in vain.