The whirlwind that saw the exit of the immediate past national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and brought in Comrade Adams Oshiomhole seems to be blowing all over again. In this report, ANDREW ESSIEN x-rays the remote and immediate causes of the recent call from various quarters for the incumbent chairman’s ouster. Penultimate week, a national officer of the governing APC stired the hornet’s nest when he called for the removal of the national chairman of the party over his handling of party matters with ‘executive fiat’, insisting that such leadership style was counterproductive to party administration. The latest outburst comes as the clamour for the replacement of some national officers whose offices that had become vacant after occupants were either appointed or elected to higher offices at both states and federal levels. The obscure cracks within the party hierarchy were further noticeable when on Tuesday, national officers engaged each other in a shouting match during the National Working Committee (NWC) meeting, which held at the national party’s secretariat in Abuja, over who becomes the APC national scribe. The party’s national vice chairman (North-East) Comrade Mustapha Salihu, insist that the the party’s national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, was no longer qualified to preside over the affairs of the party because he had been “legally” suspended by the Edo State chapter of the party, hinging the reason for the recent crisis in the party on what he called the unilateral endorsement of Waziri Bulama to fill the vacant position of the party’s national secretary. He threatened to drag Oshiomhole before the Department of State Services (DSS), and other security agencies should he continue to preside over any party meeting without vacating the suspension order validly imposed on him from his native Edo state level of the party. However, 24 hours before the tensed NWC meeting, the North East zonal party leaders had earlier denied the letter in circulation that any candidate had been endorsed for the vacant national secretary position. The major contenders from Yobe and Borno states are the pioneer APC interim National Secretary, Tijjani Tumsa and Arc. Waziri Bulama respectively. The party caucus further revealed that the vacant position, which according to them, was officially declared vacant by the national leadership of the party late last year, has however been micro-zoned to the two states of Yobe and Borno. Making his grievance known, Salihu said: “I am here just to give you a brief of what transpired just now, the illegality that just transpired now. This has been prevalent in this party since Adams Oshiomhole took over. There is never a time for official meetings. You are forming electoral committees a night before elections. That was the reason why we have all the problems we have during the general elections. The party was moved from the National Secretariat to Aso Drive. This illegality has continue. We have taking this for too long because we have his advice from our elders but the illegality knows no bound. The man will dream of an agenda and come and pass it. Yesterday I held my zonal meeting and we agreed on how to go about the  position of National Secretary. Behold, today Adams Oshiomhole ordained from somewhere and said is going to be the National Secretary. I want to tell you this is an illegality because of two things, number one, this party has set precedence, Babachir left, I replaced him from Adamawa State, Lai Mohammed left Bolaji replaced him from Kwara, Bolaji left Onilu replaced him from Kwara state…. But this is not to say there is no room for consensus. “There is serious discussion going on between Borno and Yobe for them to be able to harmonize and come up with a Secretary. We had a meeting yesterday and agreed that the two states should go and meet. I spoke with Borno Governor this morning that I will be in Borno on Friday and consult with them and proceed to Yobe and by Monday will come up with a name. I am not the type of person that will sit and watch illegality. NEC positions are like Ministerial positions and are shared across the states. As we speak, Borno has a NEC position, who is now Acting Auditor who is presently occupying his substantive position as Deputy National Auditor while the only National Working Committee Yobe has is National Secretary. If there is need for them to cede to Borno, there must be consultation. “The person who is duly elected at the convention must resign voluntarily and cede his own seat to Yobe so that Yobe will not be annihilated in the NEC position. That is what I canvassed but the chairman as usual, wants to perpetuate his illegality, just the way he did in Zamfara, in other states where we lost, he is still trying to go ahead and say he has adopted Bulama as National Secretary which is nullity because it didn’t follow the constitutional procedure. What he told us was that it was the President that mentioned Bulama name but I know it is not true, the President is not known to do unconstitutional things but he keeps dropping name each time he wants  to do illegality but this time around, we are going to resist it. “Secondly, I have seen a subsisting court order somewhere, where is been gotten from the party from Edo, they followed the procedure of suspension from his ward, local government, state and his suspension was announced and court upheld it. As I am standing here I have not seen any court that is vacating that subsisting court order. So I am recognizing him as National Chairman, he doesn’t have the right to call for any meeting. Finally, the party organs that are allowed to do this kind of assignment are normally Executive organs. Where are the resolutions from all these executive positions that necessitated National Working Committee to take decisions. That ho we said we have suspended Amosun, we don’t have right to suspend anybody. It is only the executive arms that have right to suspend – all these we did ab initio was a nullity. “We also want to follow up with the suspension of the National Chairman, to know the status, whether or not, as we speak, is fit to be a National Chairman or whether that court order  is still subsisting which before the end of today, I will let you know. I will find out if there is any court order that vacates it, then is okay, if there is no court that vacate it, I will produce the subsisting court order for you for publication and will write to INEC, the DSS, he should not be recognized as the National Chairman,” Salihu said. It will be recalled that the immediate past APC national chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun’s troubles intensified after the Ondo state governorship election in 2016. To make matters worse, crisis ensued across all the formations of the party owing to various misgivings arising from primaries held under Oyegun’s watch and things got out of hand. Therefore,not many were surprised when the calls for his ouster began sounding ever so loudly. This was further compounded when a national leader of the party and former governor of Lagos state, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu expressed dissatisfaction with the Oyegun-led NWC, insisting that the only way to lasting peace was his removal. It was therefore with much satisfaction in some quarters when at a NEC meeting of the party, President Muhammadu Buhari withdrew his support from second-term bid of the then national charman, paving way for a convention that saw emergence of Oshiomhole as the national chairman of the party. No sooner had he settled down to give his own style of leadership that fireworks of dissension began  to pop up from various quarters as party stalwarts began to allege, mutter and grumble about  the perceived “dictatorial” tendencies of their new chairman. From the onset, Comrade Oshiomhole had said he was not going to condone the mode of engagement that was obtainable before his administration came on board. He even insisted that he will have to step on toes and rock some boats for party discipline and supremacy to be enthroned. However, trouble began when the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC) introduced the Direct Primary System. This was the beginning of many more internal wrangling that greatly polarized the party even as pundits had wondered on the APC’s ability to rise from the ashes of the crisis that beset it, galvanize all its ‘formations’ and ‘arsenals’ in time to prosecute the 2019 general elections. In trying to make a case out of their decision, the party leadership argued that the introduction of the direct primaries was not only meant to deepen the internal democracy of the party, eliminate, if possible, the penchant for trading votes for money and the imposition of candidates on the party, but to bring an acceptable and to a large extent, credible candidate for the party even as it goes to the all-important 2019 general elections. The national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole while explaining the rationale behind the move stressed that the NWC “decided that in order to ensure popular participation, and to deepen democracy in Osun State, in line with the provisions of’’ the APC ‘’constitution which allow for either direct or indirect primary’’, they ‘’have resolved that the governorship election primary in Osun State will be conducted on the basis of direct primary. ‘’What that means is that every card-carrying member of our party will participate in the process of nominating the flag bearer of the party. This for us, is the most democratic way to conduct elections and is in line with what our critical stakeholders from that part of the country want and we are quite happy to oblige. “The whole idea of that is that the more we allow our party members to participate in the process of nominating candidates, we will remove the issue of corruption or monetising the processes of nominating aging candidates, in addition to the fact that party members will have a sense of ownership of the outcome of the exercise”, assured the former Edo State Governor. In layman terms, every registered member of the APC may not just be an “observer” but a participant and delegate who will not just be involved in general elections but also in all primary elections, to choose their prospective elective representatives. However, while the decision had received wider commendation from party faithfuls who believe in the process, others saw it as another dangerous adventure that could undermine the internal democratic principles of the party and even further open avenues for deep pocket politicking. The contention here also is that, while there is yet to be a comprehensive and acceptable party register, the process, they said, is also prone to manipulation to suit particular interests. Emphasis on the cost of running a direct primary was also raised considering the fact that logistic to conduct a state-wide direct primary would be almost twice that of the delegate system. This is the foundation of the many battles the Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC has had to deal with because this eventually snowballed to chieftains of the party engaging the National Chairman in a fight as they blamed him over the electoral woes the party suffered at various levels during the last general elections. One of the firsts, to call for the removal of Oshiomhole was deputy chairman (North) of the APC, Lawal Shuaibu. In a letter to the chairman dated May 27, 2019, Shuaibu, a former senator from Zamfara State insisted that the party chairman was squarely responsible for the party’s loss in his home state. The Supreme Court had ended a winding legal tussle on the emergence of APC’s candidates for various posts in Zamfara state as it invalidated votes cast for the party in the elections and directed the electoral body, INEC, to recognise the runner-ups for various positions. The top party official, in a five-page open letter, said  the chairman had caused the party to lose the seats while also listing other dwindling fortunes of the party, which he said “is on the path of extinction”, to buttress his claims. He said with the party’s decline under his leadership, the party chairman should not be prompted before he bows out. “We had 23 states in 2015 but after the elections we lost 7 states. We also had 60 senators in 2015, at the end of the election count we end up with 57 in 2019. “In advanced democracies, people who fail to add value or build over what they met on assumption of duty show some civilised example, they honourably bow out,” he wrote. In August 2019, the Director-General of Progressive Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman, again blamed National Chairman for the diminishing fortunes of the party. In a four-page letter to Oshiomhole entitled: “APC: Appeal for Reconciliation,” Lukman said as a loyal party member, he had difficulty “reconciling the absence of meetings of superior organs given all the challenges the party is going through, warranting the suspension of three serving governors (two of them now senators) and two members of NWC.” He lamented APC’s loss of Zamfara, Bauchi and some states in the 2019 polls and expressed fears that the trend could recur in the forthcoming Kogi and Bayelsa governorship polls. Assessing Oshiomhole’s leadership, Lukman, who also tackled Oshiomhole on July 19, 2019, said: “My distant observation is that there is hardly any difference between your approach in managing the party and the way Chief (John Odigie) Oyegun had managed it during his tenure. Instead, things have really got worse and painfully, it would appear, you are in denial of this reality. “Kindly recall that sometime in June this year, I sent what I called a private memo on the issue of reported disciplinary actions against Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State by the NWC. “Of course, the memo noted that before the 2019 elections, the NWC had similarly suspended former Governors Rochas Okorocha and lbikunle Amosun of Imo and Ogun states respectively. Between June and now, Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, APC Deputy National Chairman, North and Alhaji Inuwa Abdulkadir, APC Vice National Chairman, North West had also been similarly suspended. “It will appear that the leadership problems facing the party are getting deeper and in the circumstances the business of building the party will be sacrificed. “We had challenges that deprived our party the opportunity to contest 2019 election in Rivers State, stripped our party of electoral victory in Zamfara State, engendered highest level of leadership animosities in Imo, Ogun, Adamawa, Bauchi, Kano, Ondo, Oyo, etc. “Today, with Kogi and Bayelsa elections approaching, similar leadership animosities are defining political life of the party in those states. “Since emerging as the national chairman of our party, I have had cause to review decisions and actions you had taken as the National Chairman and often I have difficulty reconciling many of the decisions and actions you took with the leadership standards you upheld. “It is a painful reality that we have found ourselves in situation of near stalemate in many states under your leadership. Embarrassingly, our leaders, including your very self, appear to be stubbornly inconsiderate of other options of resolving these challenges. “If the electoral loss of Oyo, Imo, Zamfara, Adamawa and Bauchi is not a wakeup call to the dangers that lie ahead, what could have been. Is it that our leaders are indifferent to the possible return of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP? “In all my years of association with you, I never imagine that one day you will be so comfortable as to be indifferent to challenges that could threaten our national democratic development. “Sir, there is the need to urgently refocus our party and all our leaders on the most critical political issue in the country, which is about reconciling our leaders at all levels.” He wrote. It was therefore not surprising to political pundits when the Director-General of the Progressive Governors’Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh. Lukman, again charged the National Chairman to either convene the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party or resign immediately. The PGF Director-General’s call comes on the heel of the multiple internal crisis rocking the party in the states across the country, the most current of which is the worsening power tussle between Oshiomhole and his successor as governor of Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki, which Lukman described as embarrassing to the ruling party. Lukman, in a statement he personally authored, titled ‘APC and our Inconceivable Organisational Challenges: Urgent Call to our Leaders’ and made available to journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, said the National Working Committee (NWC), an administrative organ of the party, including just a select members of the NEC and is tasked with the responsibility of executing decisions of the NEC, had hijacked the responsibilities of the apex decision-making organ of the party, the NEC, which he said seemed to have been suspended. According to him, many of the crisis facing the party in the state, many of which had cost the party some states hitherto considered as its stronghold states, are those that the NEC or National Caucus meeting of the party are designed to sort out. He reminded Oshiomhole that his constituency, as National Chairman of the party goes beyond his home state of Edo, but the whole of the country, charging him to follow the party’s constitution by convening the NEC, face the party in the process of resolving the myriad of crises facing it or simply accept that he is not capable of leading the party any further and resign his office as National Chairman. “Side by side with the news of the vote of no confidence was also the discomforting report of the Federal High Court judgement in Abuja disqualifying Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo as our Deputy Governorship candidate for the November 16, 2019 Bayelsa election. While expecting that every necessary step will be taken to vacate the judgement, it is very depressing for every committed party member to be subjected to such ignominious reality, which only remind us of our reckless conducts in states like Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa, which chiefly gave away electoral victories to PDP. “Instead of focusing on working to win elections, we are busy undermining ourselves. All these are ominous signs that we are about to re-enact the Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa experiences in Bayelsa. It is Bayelsa today, Anambra, Edo and Ondo are being setup for similar experiences. Somehow, unfortunately, the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party, which is the organ vested with the statutory responsibility of responding to all these challenges appear to be suspended. The last time it met was August 2018. In its place, the National Working Committee (NWC), which is an administrative organ with the responsibility of implementing decisions of NEC and other higher organs seems to have usurped the powers of NEC. “Why should all these be allowed to happen? Why is it impossible to convene a NEC or even National Caucus meetings, which are supposed to hold every quarter to resolve all these issues? Why should the NWC under Comrade Oshiomhole continue to imagine that it can conduct affairs of the party without mandatory meetings of party organs? What legacy is Comrade Oshiomhole hoping to achieve as a National Chairman by running the party in a way that suggests almost zero commitment to issues of party development? “It is very painful for many of us who have had the privilege of being mentored by Comrade Oshiomhole to see him being devalued to a local factional leader from a very high pedestal of an illustrious national leader. As National Chairman, Comrade Oshiomhole hardly appreciate that he now has a national constituency and not just a state constituency, which may have been responsible for his apparent intemperance in the handling of matters affecting Edo State. I wish he paid similar attention to handling of issues affecting Rivers and Zamfara states during the 2019 elections. “In the current circumstance, nothing short of a NEC or National Caucus meeting of the party can resolve all our increasing organisational challenges as a party. It is either Comrade Oshiomhole respect the provision of party constitution and convene superior organ meeting to deliberate on all our challenges, or he should just accept his inability to manage the party and simply resign. “Our national leaders must rise to the challenge facing us as a party and take all necessary measures to convene superior organ meetings to begin to resolve all our challenges as a party. The current public disgrace must end”, he said. Interestingly, Comrade Oshiomhole and his aides have remained defeaningly silent even as he went on to win the Kogi and Bayelsa gubernatorial elections. Analysts posit that the national Chairman will respond in kind to all the cynics especially now that the much talked about NEC is expected to hold penultimate Friday. How this pans out, remains to be seen with time.