***Happy with PMB Over ongoing Works in Zone. Chairman of the South East Governors Forum, Dave Umahi has appealed for timely completion of the ongoing rehabilitation work at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. This is even as he disclosed that governors of the South East Geopolitical Zone were happy with President Muhamadu Buhari over timely release of funds for the upgrade of facilities at the airport, adding that they were happy with him over various projects executed by the Federal Government in the zone. Umahi, who is the governor of Ebonyi State, made the call while inspecting ongoing works at the airport complex. The governor said though he was satisfied at the extent of the work, he was concerned about the duration and delivery of the project. He however, said he was happy with the pedigree and experience of the consultant in charge of the work, adding that he had no reservations that the job would be of good quality. Umahi disclosed that governors of the Southeast were happy with President Muhammadu Buhari for the timely release of funds for the upgrade of the facilities in the airport. He also commended the president for the various projects being executed by the Federal Government in the zone, including the Second Niger Bridge. “We are impressed with the quality and speed of the work and believe that at the end of the day we shall have a lasting airport,” he said. On the alleged downward review of the contract sum, Umahi said he had no such information. The governor said that he was not worried about such allegations as the definition and specification of the work had not changed. Earlier, the Project Consultant, Mr Sani Baba, said that the issue of completion of the project was an issue with the contractor. He stated that the contractor had opted to deliver the project in June 2020 but the Federal Government rejected it and insisted on delivering the job by the last week of April 2020. The consultant said that to deliver the project as scheduled, the contractor would have to do certain tasks simultaneously. Baba said that the idea was to make the airport one of the best in the country. Meanwhile, the Electrical Consultant, Mr Mohammed Sadiq, said that it was not correct that the cost of the project had been reviewed downward. Baba said that the project was still valued at N10billion. He, however, said that the project was broken down into civil work and electrical call. Baba said that while the pavement and civil work would be done at N8.5billion, the electrical work would cost N1.5billion. It would be recalled that the airport was closed in August 2019 following safety concerns by officials of Ministry of Aviation. 