The Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) has called for the reintroduction of Cargo Tracking Note (CTN) in the country to check the current revenue leakages. In an exclusive interview with LEADERSHIP, the director, Consumer Affairs Department of NSC, Cajetan Agu, said that Nigeria has remained the only country in West and Central Africa (WECA) that is yet to implement the International Cargo Tracking Note (ICTN). Already, some stakeholders in the maritime sector have said that the CTN being championed by NSC, if implemented would enhance the security functions of government, generate real time information and statistics, revenue collection and trade facilitation on the international scene. At present, Nigeria’s competitors, Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire, Angola, Congo, Cameroon, Benin Republic, and Togo implement CTN to plug revenue leakages in port operations but Nigeria has lagged behind in implementing it. While responding to stakeholders’ criticisms of the planned re-introduction of the automated system at the nation’s seaports, Agu reiterated that Nigeria still remains the only country in West and Central Africa to implement the single window project. Agu said that it was left for the country to compete with the neighbouring countries in the sub-region or perish, declaring that “CTN is being implemented in Senegal, Cote d’Ivoire, Angola, Congo, Cameroon, Benin and Togo.” He said that the re-introduction of CTN would curb the massive influx of illegal arms and banned drugs into the country. The NSC director, who insisted that CTN would plug revenue leakages, added that it would stop the under- declaration of cargoes by importers and clearing agents. He said that the “option is left for us to implement best practices, compete and survive or perish. The purpose of CTN is to check under-declaration, plug revenue leakage, improve security, generate statistics for informed decision-making, and assist the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in the profiling of cargo and shippers. “It will also help to monitor the freight rate trends on major trade routes. During the World Trade Organisation (WTO) round of negotiations, the African groups were in favour of ICTN. NSC believes in best practices. We believe the project will turn around the fortunes of the maritime sector. “Anybody who wants to criticise the system should come up with clear points on why it should not be implemented. Generally, Nigeria has phobia for automation. ICTN is an automated system just like Single Window,” Agu said. The NSC director further explained that the project was first introduced in the United States of America (USA) after the 9/11 attack to forestall the importation of dangerous cargo into the country. In US, it is called Advance Cargo Declaration (ACD), he said. Agu added that the system subjects all cargoes destined to America to a declaration at origin, name, nature, volume, value, origin, freight paid, the consigned addresses and telephone number. NPA Orders Diversion Of Cargoes To Eastern Ports Over Congestion In another development, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has ordered ships which could not get berthing space at Apapa and Tin Can ports in Lagos to move to the eastern ports following congestion at seaports in Lagos that has lasted for over two months, The eastern ports are in Delta, Rivers and Cross River States. They include, among others, Onne Port, Rivers Port in Port Harcourt, Calabar Port (Cross River) and Delta Port, Warri. The ports in Calabar and Warri have suffered low patronage since they were concessioned in 2006. Over 26 vessels have been trapped in the Lagos pilotage district waiting to berth and discharge consignments. Also, shipping companies have said that it takes over 20 days for vessels to berth at Apapa Port and over 10 days at Tin Can Island Port due to the congestion in the terminals, occasioned by poor access roads to both ports. Also, vessels that have arrived in Nigerian waters since January 3, 2020, and a few others that came in December last year, are still waiting to berth. It was gathered that no fewer than 26 vessels hanging on the high sea were tagged CRNAPP, an acronym for Customs Release Not Applicable (West Coast) going by the NPA data. The new directive if complied with by the international shipping lines is expected to boost business activities in the eastern ports and reduce pressure on the western ports. NPA, in a statement at the weekend, said that the directive was in response to the recent increase in the waiting time of vessels at the Lagos Port Complex, Apapa, adding that, it had met with shipping companies and terminal operators and arrived at the decision aimed at resolving the congestion in the Lagos pilotage district. “As from Monday, January 27, 2020, vessels which have waited to berth at any terminal within the Lagos pilotage district will be diverted to other terminals with capacity to berth vessels within the district. “In the event that all terminals in Lagos cannot discharge any vessels within four days, such vessels will be diverted to the eastern ports (other pilotage districts) for immediate berthing. “The authority will liaise with other relevant government agencies on behalf of stakeholders to expedite the clearance of vessels and cargoes, where necessary,” NPA said in the statement signed by Jatto Adams, general manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications. Adams said that “these actions have been taken to promote the Ease of Doing Business Policy of the federal government and curtail the negative economic impact that the long turnaround time of vessels has on stakeholders.” Before the NPA directives, an international shipping firm, Hapag-Lloyd, had lamented the delay at the Lagos ports, which, it said had adversely affected its movement cycle. A memo issued by the shipping firm stated that “the current waiting time for berthing in APMT Terminal (Apapa) is more than 20 days, while it exceeds 10 days at TICT Terminal (Tincan Island).” It noted that these operational delays heavily affect its two services, MIAX and MWX, which contain both terminals in their long-term schedules.