Ahead of the January 25, 2020 rerun elections in 28 constituencies in 12 states of the federation, President Muhammadu Buhari has cautioned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) against rigging the polls for any political party. The president has repeatedly promised Nigerians to leave a legacy of free, fair and credible electoral process at the end of his second term in office in 2023. Buhari, who met yesterday with INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and top officials of the electoral body, as well as the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mr. Mohammed Adamu, at the State House, Abuja, told them that anybody declared as a winner must be the person duly elected by the people INEC will conduct a minimum of 28 rerun and by-elections this month in the affected states. President Buhari, in a statement issued by his special adviser on media and publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, told INEC to ensure that the game was played by the rules, without fear or favour. He said: “Those that you declare as winners must be the candidates that the people have chosen. Democracy is about free will, and the will of the people must be allowed to prevail. Get your acts right, and leave no room for underhand tricks or manipulation.” Buhari said that he was determined to give Nigeria an electoral system that meets with best practices anywhere in the world and further charged INEC to stick to the rules of fair play and justice. To the police, President Buhari said that he wants nothing than “a scrupulous securing of the electoral process, without bias or favouritism. “Our elections must be done in a violence-free atmosphere. The process must be free, fair, decent, and devoid of intimidation or malpractices. It is the duty of the police to accomplish that, and it is what I expect in the elections immediately ahead and going forward,” he said. Both Yakubu and Adamu pledged to adhere to the rules and regulations, stating that they know President Buhari as someone passionately committed to fair play. No Lover Of Nigeria Will Be Talking About 2023 Now – Tinubu Also yesterday, the national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who visited Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja, said that no lover of Nigeria would be talking now about who succeeds President Buhari in 2023. His comment came two days after the senior pastor and founder of Latter Rain Assembly in Lagos, Pastor Tunde Bakare, asked Buhari to handpick his successor in 2023. Both Tinubu and Bakare are believed to be scheming to succeed the president after his tenure. Bakare was reported to have told his church members that he dreamt of becoming the president of Nigeria after Buhari. A few days before he called on Buhari to singlehandedly pick his successor, Bakare had visited the presidential villa, where he met with the president. After the visit, Bakare posed in a photograph with Buhari, which made the cove pages of some national dailies. But yesterday, Tinubu told State House correspondents after the meeting with Buhari behind closed doors that “the time is not now. We have just finished one election and Mr President is busy sorting out the budget, working for the people of this country. Of course, restlessness of politics is going to be there, but any lover of this country will not talk about the succession plan yet. “That‘s the truth. Concentrate on working for the country; help the president to help the country. There‘s nothing more than that. “We cannot use 365 days in a year and 360° to work on politics, it‘s not possible. Anybody talking about that now is just completely restless and not focused on the agenda of nation-building and the development of our country,” he said. The former Lagos State governor added that any reasonable politician, who had worked with President Buhari would know that he would not tamper with the constitution to seek a third term in office. Tinubu said that “distractors are always suspicious and will make accusations, but I was in the trench, in the struggle for democracy. “I was in the trench and in the opposition with Muhammadu Buhari, till the third term agenda of a former leader of this country failed. I know he will never. He has the courage and the character to refuse such a temptation even if offered to him. I believe in him and I believe Nigerians should also believe in him. “He doesn‘t need to say it to me, I‘ll argue it in the corner and everywhere they bring such a thing up. However, it‘s very good to hear it from him. I say congratulations to a man of character and integrity. The challenge of turning the ship of this nation around is a continuum and that is what we should get ourselves concerned with. “Yes, politics is intoxicating, it‘s flamboyant, it‘s interesting, but we cannot continue in perpetuity one after the other, we have to relax, show concern for the people of the country and see to the efforts of the president that will manifest in the new, united and prosperous country. We are still not there,” Tinubu stated. On why he visited the president, the APC chieftain said that “it‘s a new decade; a visit to the leader of my country is necessary to look at things and wish him well in the office for this new decade and make some points on the stability, security and a number of issues around the country. Reflecting on President Buhari’s  New Year message to Nigerians, Tinubu said that “it resonated very well; he showed concern about the security and the understanding that the economy is still a challenge, but it‘s a work in progress, you‘ll have to continue to work on it and make it better for the common man. That‘s the meat of the message.” INEC Trains Officials For January 25 Rerun Still on the electoral process, INEC has commenced the training of its officials for the conduct of 28 re-run polls in 12 states of the federation. The elections scheduled for 25th January, 2020, are holding in Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bauchi, Benue, Cross River, Imo, Kaduna, Kano, Niger, Ogun, and Sokoto States. For better performance by the officials, The Electoral Institute (TEI), INEC’s research and training arm, has begun a two-day training for supervisory presiding officers (SPOs) with the aim of equipping them with the requisite skills to organise and conduct training on polling and counting procedures as well as to effectively perform their electoral functions. The institute’s director-general, Dr. Sa’ad Umar, said that the training was being conducted simultaneously in two streams, with Kano, Kaduna, Bauchi, Niger and Benue States making the first stream. The second stream scheduled for 13th-14th January, 2020, covers Sokoto, Imo, Akwa Ibom, Abia, Cross River. and Ogun States. INEC had on December 5, 2019, released a statement on the conduct of 28 outstanding court-ordered rerun elections on January 25, 2020, arising from the 2019 general elections. The statement was signed by the chairman of INEC’s Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, who gave a breakdown of the elections as one senatorial, 12 federal constituencies, and 15 state assembly polls.