Gombe State has about 700,000 out-of-school children but Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya’s administration is poised to reverse the trend, writes JAIYEOLA ANDREWS The United Nations Children Education Fund (UNICEF) estimated the number of out-of-school children in Nigeria to be in the region of 13 million. This estimation is to say the least alarming and needs to be urgently addressed for the future of the nation. Out of this number, Gombe State has a major share of over 700, 000. A pointer to a bleak future, if proactive measure at addressing the menace is not taken. Determined to address the trend, Gombe State governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, who expressed sadness over the development, said his administration is poised to do everything aimed at returning out-of-school children back to school. He inaugurated a committee to look into the education sector in the state and come up with recommendations that will ensure the revamping of the sector. Besides, the governor also approved the appointment of Dr. Abdullahi Bappah Ahmed as the coordinator, Better Edi Services Delivery for All (BESDA) for Gombe State. BESDA is a World Bank/Federal Government project targeting at mopping up out-of-school children and getting them back to classes in collaboration with state government. In the quest of his administration’s bid to key into the project, Yahaya launched the community engagement programme of BESDA in Malam Sidi, Kwami council area of the state. The launch had in attendance, BESDA national team, UBEC officials, UNICEF representatives, traditional rulers and community leaders. At the event, the governor expressed dismay over the statistics of out-of-school children in the state. He called on all stakeholders in the state to come on board in reversing the trend. The governor added that his administration would not compromise education, despite the lean resources of Gombe State. Yahaya said, “If you compromise education, the future is at stake. No investment can be too high on education. Our experience with Boko Haram and other security threats in recent years are classical examples of the price we have to pay for our nonchalant attitude towards education. Reforming the education system is one of the cardinal objectives of my administration. It is only through quality and universal basic education we can give our children the knowledge and skills required to excel in a knowledge-driven 21st century environment.” Universal Children Education Funds PPRO (UNICEF’), had announced that there are 700,00 out-of-school children in Gombe State, the statistics the governor described as a sad development and called for sober reflection. UNICEF had at the flagging-off of Basic Education Services Delivery for All (BESDA) by the state governor in Malam Sidi, Kwami Local Government Area of the state, made the announcement. However, the international body said it had trained 300 teachers in the state to assist in taking the children back-to-school. It also expressed hope that in two years time and with commitment, no children would be out-of-school in the state. The UNICEF’S disclosure was made by its head of field operations, Dr Bani Patak. Reacting while speaking, the governor blamed the immediate past administration of Ibrahim Dakwambo for the rot in the education sector in the state. Yahaya said neither did his predecessor keyed into international intervention programmes on education, nor any other development scheme that could have brought succour to the people of the state. While saying there is no alternative to education, the governor restated his administration’s commitment to revamping the sector. He declared that back-to-school children would be clothed and fed, as each child is pegged at $80 to $100. Yahaya, however, challenged the traditional rulers in the state, to ensure that all children in their domain are back-to-school. Coordinator, Better Education Services Delivery for All (BESDA), Mallam Abdullahi Bappah, who is a senior lecturer Department of Physics, Gombe State University, said he had over 10 years experience as a lecturer said, “Since we came on board in September, 2019. We had a programme without structure on ground but we have programme appraisal document, which is like the guide. “So we began with sensitisation and advocacy to the traditional and religious leaders. This is to make them understand the concept of the programme. As you know BESDA programme has three result areas or programme development objectives; to mop out of school children to improve literacy of the kids and also to strengthen the system. The result area includes: the Almajiri and the girl child our target is to enroll 21,000 into the schools and to have 25,000 of the Almajiri back in school. “Second aspect is to improve literacy and you can’t improve literacy without building the capacity of teachers. We were about to train 2,400 teachers and head teachers and we procured 60,200 of Book 1 ‘Mukaranta’ and Phoenix 60,200 each. We had distributed all these books to schools and hard to reach areas. “We have established 100 girl child centres across the state the last one we went to is in Balanga, we went to the border of Gombe and Adamawa. There are remote areas with over 200 kids just roaming about, hawking and doing nothing. We were able to establish the girl child centre.  On Beneficiaries Bappah said, “When we came we were told that from the Needs Assessment and National Educational Data Survey of 2015 that Gombe State has 450 and at the moment there are about 700 out of school children both the Almajiri and girl child. “We have been able to mainstream around 1,1000 kids back to school and instructional materials have been distributed to these centres and it is a great success. If there is anything we are happy about is what Gombe State government is doing because without political will, we wouldn’t have gone this far.” On how they were able to convince teachers to go to hard to reach areas, the BESDA coordinator said, “We don’t take teachers out of their community. We also ensure that all the teachers are from the same community, once you have NCE we give you appointment. “We find someone with NCE in the nearest community, then we send him to the community to teach and it has been working actually. There are places that they resist, they don’t like western education we try to give examples, to elicit their interest on the importance of education. “We were also able to use interventions to convince them. Having teachers who come from their community has served as a motivation. Prior to now their kids who had qualification and  were unemployed usually serve as a reason why they should allow their children to go to farm instead of attending classes but now the unemployed NCE holders are meaningfully employed.” On the challenges so far, Bappah noted that “there are serious challenges but mainly the resistance in the rural areas. There is no much resistance generally because of the political will.  If we have any issues we knock on the door of Governor Inuwa Yahaya, and he makes call. “There is another which is the single curriculum for over 100 years and now you are coming to say mix it up with something it is always difficult. We have resulted to dialogues, we are overcoming most of the challenges. On how he hope to inculcate English language in the rural areas, he disclosed that, “that is why I told you we procured 60,200 copies of Mukaranta. In the literacy programme we have Hausa version (Mukaranta) and the English version (Phoenix). We mix in both Hausa and English, likewise in the South West -Yoruba, in the South East -Igbo. This is according to UBEC and World Bank for us to pick language that the community is conversant in and train them using that.” While speaking on his achievements, Bappah said, “before we came on board if you go to some of these areas some will tell you that they have not heard anything government, that the only time they heard something like that was during Sardauna. “Ever since have not seen anything. We began by identifying some of the hard to reach areas. And we started our sensitisation and advocacy on our mission which was to provide them education, learning materials. We introduced collapsible tent, mats and white board with marker within 15 minutes, you have a class and the narratives have changed. We have covered more than 600 communities across the 114 wards of the state. We have centres, in some wards there are five to six centres since September. On the distribution of books, he explained that “we have distributed 58,000 books free. All through my school years I have never seen where books are distributed free. Our target was to distribute 47,000 but we have 1001 and more will be distributed. The kids have started reading. We have established learning centre for the girl child at the Gombe market. Once they bring their goods from the village they will go there to study for just one hour and go back. We are hopeful that within a month they can pick.” On how  to integrate out-of-school children into the system talking about the learning centres, Bappah explained that “we have a baseline data, before the end of this four year programme, each and everyone of them will be literate. This means they will be able to read and write. We are going to train them for nine months and after nine months, then we will mainstream them to the closest school.” According to him, in 2020, another 100,000 kids will be brought into the system before the end of the programme, adding that “we want to see that almost all of our kids are literate. We expect that our literacy level will improve from 29 to at least 60 per cent.”