Former Attorney General and Minister of Justice and two others standing trial over alleged fraud in the $1.2billion Malabu Oil deal have been granted bail by Justice Abubukar Idris Kutigi of the High Court of Justice of the Federal Capital Territory sitting in Gwagwalada. The court in its ruling yesterday, granted Adoke and the 2nd defendant, A. Abubakar, bail in the sum of N50million each. Also, the court admitted the  3rd defendant, Rasky Gbinijie, bail in the sum of N10million. Adoke and his co-defendants are being prosecuted by the federal government over their involvement in the alleged Malabu oil deal fraud amounting to $1.2billion. Charged alongside Adoke, Rasky Gbinigie, and A. Abubakar are Malabu Oil Gas Limited, Nigeria Agip Exploration Limited, Shell Ultra Deep Limited and Shell Nigeria Exploration Production Limited. The defendants all pleaded not guilty to the 42-count charge preferred against them by the federal government. The federal government in a charge marked CR/151/2020, filed at the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory alleged that Adoke and the other accused, received gratification to carry out the fraudulent oil deal. On December 19, 2019, Adoke returned to the country from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, into the waiting arm of operatives of the EFCC at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. The defendant, who fled the country in 2015, has pending criminal charge brought against him by the EFCC for alleged abuse of office and money laundering in respect of the granting of the Oil Prospecting License (OPL) 245 to Shell and ENI. The prosecution agency had in the charge dated 14th January, 2020 and filed on the 15th January, claimed that the former AGF in August 2013, in Abuja, while serving as a minister knowingly received United State Dollars equivalent of N300million which is reasonably suspected of having been unlawfully obtained and thereby committed offence punishable under Section 319A of the Penal Code, Cap. 532 Laws Of The Federation of Nigeria 1990.   