The residents of Lafiaji-Lekki area of Lagos state have demanded to know the relationship between Dunmak Power Engineering Company and Eko Electric Distribution Company (EKEDC) after the former claimed it now represents the EKEDC. In a letter of petition to the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) by their solicitor, Yomi Oyebo Esq. the residents said Dunmak Power Engineering Company, claiming to be acting on behalf of (EKEDC) has sent outrageous electricity bill to the area. The residents in the petition urged the NERC to intervene and investigate the company. According to the petition, “Sometime in September 2019, the residents of Lafiaji-Lekki area of Lagos State were approached by the Managing Director of a company named “Dunmak Power Engineering Company” with the claim that his company now represents Eko Electric Distribution Company (EKEDC) and that Dunmak could supply the neighbourhood with a minimum 21 hours of electricity, daily. “The company then presented a letter of Introduction from the managing Director of EKEDC (Mr. Adeoye Fadebiyi)dated 9th October 2019 to add some legitimacy to their claims. “Confused, the residents of the area which consists of a cluster of mostly hotels and residential Estates asked several questions bothering on Dunmak’s capacity to deliver as boasted and the nature/origin of its relationship with EKEDC but no satisfactory answer were ever provided. “The Company claimed it was an investor in the power infrastructure in the neighbourhood and that it had spent over 500 million Naira in the area and that this arrangement was a part of the Federal Governments WILLING BUYER, WILLING SELLER Power scheme. All efforts to get the Company to prove this claim also yielded no results.” The residents in their petition said in a letter dated 28th October and received on 30th October 2019, Dunmak Power Limited wrote to all properties in the area stating that it had introduced a new electricity billing of N50 per kilowatt/Hour as against the NERC/FG approved 29.5 naira per Kilowatt/Hour. It reads further, “all of a sudden, Dunmark claiming to have a legitimate agreement from the Residents association of the neighbourhood proceeded in November 2019 to issue all residents of the area power bills at the rate of 50 Naira/kWh and gave the neighbourhood a new account number to make payments into. EKEDC did not send any bills to residents of the area since November till date as they would usually do. “Upon receiving the strange bill, some Estates and businesses within the area immediately wrote back to DUNMAK on 31st October refuting such spurious claim of executing a purported power contract with them and demanding their bills from EKEDC. “The estates proceeded to make payments as usual into the approved EKEDC accounts which didn’t go down well with the Company reps who then proceeded to threaten the residents that they will be disconnected from the grid and kept in perpetual blackout for not paying them as instructed.”