Technology is leading global world innovation. Science, technology and engineering drive all sectors of the economy and provide ample opportunity for the world, especially developing countries to deploy them to tackle societal challenges. One of the most pressing challenges in Nigeria at present is the issue of insecurity. Despite government’s efforts in tackling insurgency in the North East, there is need to invest more in technology and engineering for the purpose of dealing with societal challenges. Speaking when he received the vice chancellor of the Yobe State University, Prof. Yakubu Muhktar and his team at the headquarters of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) in Abuja, the agency’s executive vice chairman, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna said insurgency in North-East has continued largely because of high rate of unemployment of youths, men and women in the areas. “The absence of viable economic alternatives for the youths and men in those areas has made them vulnerable to crime,” he pointed out, adding if the mineral resources available in the North East, especially in Yobe State, were harnessed using technology tools available in NASENI, the youths would be gainfully employed and this naturally would turn them away from insurgency activities which advertently expose them to danger. To this end, he welcomed a collaboration between NASENI and Yobe State University, saying it would see to the training of unemployed youths around the areas in skill acquisition through waste to wealth technologies that are available in NASENI. “The intention is to get the youths out of the streets. NASENI will teach the youths, men and women on new skills so they can meet their livelihood thereby reducing the tendency to take to crime,” the NASENI boss stated. Saying Yobe State is blessed with mineral resources, he averred that if the state could deploy some of the technologies in NASENI, the youths would be trained on how to use locally developed technologies to harness the resources in the state thereby creating opportunities for gainful employment for themselves. Haruna explained that NASENI also could intervene in several areas like water project or irrigation through the use of small hydro kinetic turbine or the solar energy produced by the agency to generate electricity. He explained that schools that have been destroyed by Boko Haram terrorists could be refurbished by providing educational tools, especially primary and secondary laboratory equipment to be powered by solar. Yobe State is one of the three states currently under high impacts of insurgence activities the remaining two being Adamawa and Borno. Earlier in his remarks, Prof. Muhktar commended NASENI for its several achievements especially the development of engineering and technology infrastructures for the country and expressed strong conviction that if the technologies and human resources available in the agency were properly harnessed, they could help to transform the country. He observed that NASENI was committed to the development of the country by its various interventions in several sectors of the economy through research, development and production of engineering and technology tools. “I am highly impressed with what the agency is doing and I believe that the collaboration between NASENI and Yobe State University will add value not only to the university but also Yobe State including reduction in insurgency. There are technologies available in the agency that can be used to address these challenges. We are here to look for necessary area of collaboration that would help the university to address youth unemployment,” he said. The collaboration also is expected to give new skills and capacity to staff and the students of the university, he noted, adding NASENI and the university would train the students on several skills and in return they would train the youths in the areas, especially those that do not have basic education. A statement by the agency’s deputy director of information, Mr Olusegun Ayeoyenikan, said Yobe State University campus would be used as a training center in the implementation of the programme. New skills also would be given to local artisans: plumbers, mechanics, electricians, technicians, and welders while others would be trained on how to use agricultural processing technologies produced by the agency, the statement added.