It was an unusual presidential letter to Nigerians to commence the dawn of a new decade on January 1, 2020. MUYIWA OYINLOLA writes on the far-reaching decisions in President Muhammadu Buhari’s New Year message. Tagged ‘Nigeria’s Decade’, the message was delivered to Nigerians through usual nationwide broadcast but it was a rare message in the sense that it was widely publicized on the front pages of virtually all the national dailies. The reason is not far-fetched – it was a loaded letter which contained heartening messages for Nigerians as the New Year begins. “Today marks a new decade. It is a time of hope, optimism and fresh possibilities. We look forward as a nation to the 2020s as the opportunity to build on the foundations we have laid together on security, diversification of our economy and taking on the curse of corruption. These are the pledges on which I have been twice elected President and remain the framework for a stable, sustainable and more prosperous future,” the president said in the openings of his message. Thereafter, the president touched on the nation’s electoral system and also spoke about the politics of 2023, saying he won’t seek for election again even though he will help strengthen the electoral process both in Nigeria and across West Africa. To some critics, the president’s assurance regarding 2023 was unnecessary since a two-term limit has been constitutionally prescribed for him, hence he has no choice but leave office at the end of tenure in 2023. However, a deeper look into the statement suggests that it will go a long way in calming the polity ahead of the election year as some political jobbers and busy bodies have already started canvassing for a ‘Third Term’ for the president. In essence, it was an assurance to Nigerians that the president is not interested in an illegal venture. “I will be standing down in 2023 and will not be available in any future elections. But I am determined to help strengthen the electoral process both in Nigeria and across the region, where several ECOWAS members go to the polls this year,” he said. Buhari also gave his stewardship on security particular as it concerns North-East region, economy, ongoing agricultural revolution, infrastructural developments across the country, power, among other initiatives of his administration. “As Commander-in-Chief, my primary concern is the security of the nation and the safety of our citizens. When I assumed office in May 2015 my first task was to rally our neighbours so that we could confront Boko Haram on a coordinated regional basis. Chaos is not a neighbour any of us hope for. We have been fighting on several fronts: violent extremists, cultists and organised criminal networks. “It has not been easy. But as we are winning the war, we also look to the challenge of winning the peace, the reconstruction of lives, communities and markets. The North East Development Commission will work with local and international stakeholders to help create a new beginning for the North East. The Federal Government will continue to work with State Governors, neighbouring states and our international partners to tackle the root causes of violent extremism and the networks that help finance and organise terror. “Our security forces will receive the best training and modern weaponry, and in turn will be held to the highest standards of professionalism, and respect for human rights. We will use all the human and emerging technological resources available to tackle kidnapping, banditry and armed robbery,” he said. dded that the newly created Ministry of Police Affairs has increased recruitment of officers and the security reforms being introduced will build on what the government is already delivering. This is even the as president promised that the government’s actions at all times will be governed by the rule of law. On stimulating the economy, the president noted that “Our new Economic Advisory Council brings together respected and independent thinkers to advise me on a strategy that champions inclusive and balanced growth, and above all fight poverty and safeguard national economic interests.” The president gleefully announced that “for the first time in a generation our food plates have not all been filled with imports of products we know can easily be produced here at home,” adding that the revolution in agriculture is already a reality in all corners of the country. One initiative that has generated interests in the land is the issue of border closure, a decision taken by the Federal Government to bolster national security against any threats from cross border crimes and economic saboteurs. “The joint land border security exercise currently taking place is meant to safeguard Nigeria’s economy and security. No one can doubt that we have been good neighbours and good citizens,” the president assured. He said Nigeria has been the helpers and shock-absorbers of the sub-region but it cannot allow her well-planned economic regeneration plans to be sabotaged, adding that “as soon as we are satisfied that the safeguards are adequate, normal cross-border movements will be resumed.” On transportation, Buhari said “we are making significant progress on key roads such as the Second Niger Bridge, Lagos – Ibadan Expressway and the Abuja – Kano highway. 2020 will also see tangible progress on the Lagos to Kano Rail line. Through Executive Order 007, we are also using alternative funding programmes in collaboration with private sector partners to fix strategic roads such as the Apapa-Oworonshoki Express way. Abuja and Port Harcourt have new international airport terminals, as will Kano and Lagos in 2020.” He noted that when the projects are completed, they will positively impact business operations in the country. “These projects are not small and do not come without some temporary disruption; we are doing now what should have been done a long time ago. I thank you for your patience and look forward to the dividends that we and future generations will long enjoy. Power has been a problem for a generation. We know we need to pick up the pace of progress. “We have solutions to help separate parts of the value chain to work better together.  In the past few months, we have engaged extensively with stakeholders to develop a series of comprehensive solutions to improve the reliability and availability of electricity across the country,” he said. He however added that the solutions include ensuring fiscal sustainability for the sector, increasing both government and private sector investments in the power transmission and distribution segments, improving payment transparency through the deployment of smart meters and ensuring regulatory actions maximise service delivery. “We have in place a new deal with Siemens, supported by the German government after German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited us in Abuja, to invest in new capacity for generation, transmission and distribution. These projects will be under close scrutiny and transparency – there will be no more extravagant claims that end only in waste, theft and mismanagement,” he revealed. Buhari explained that the next 12 months will witness the gradual implementation of these actions, after which Nigerians can expect to see significant improvement in electricity service supply reliability and delivery. Also, the president restates his commitment to lifting millions of Nigerian out of abject poverty. “During my Democracy Day speech on June 12, 2019, I promised to lay the enduring foundations for taking a hundred million Nigerians out of mass poverty over the next 10 years. Today I restate that commitment.” “We shall continue reforms in education, health care and water sanitation. I have met international partners such as GAVI, the vaccine alliance, and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation who support our social welfare programmes. I will continue to work with State and Local Governments to make sure that these partnerships deliver as they should,” he said. On the much talked-about minimum wage for workers, the president promised that civil servants will have what he called a ‘living wage’ and pensioners will be looked after as well. “We are steadily clearing pensions and benefits arrears neglected for so long. The new Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development will consolidate and build on the social intervention schemes and will enhance the checks and balances necessary for this set of programmes to succeed for the long term,” Buhari said, among other ambitious projects and programmes enumerated in the New Year message to Nigerians.