It was not too long that I lost my biological mother, Hajiya Adama Hassan, whose sad event had occurred precisely on Sunday, 11th November, 2019. It was by far the gloomiest moment of my life and indeed to every member of the bereaved family – especially my siblings. Sadly still, death, as it won’t, always go about throbbing and distressing without regard to race, age or status of who is involved and how close its victims are. As a fact, since the passing away of my beloved mum, I know how severely agonizing it is for anyone to lose his or her beloved mother. It, in fact, occasions one of the most painful experiences. Writing, for me, is one of the most interesting experiences. In fact, as a journalist, writing is what I mostly do. But, when I lost my mum and I tried to put on my laptop to do a tribute in her honour, it took me a whole Month to overcome the overwhelming emotions to do her tribute. This is to show how painful and distressing it was to me.
It’s not surprising how mothers are being accorded a somewhat superior attention. In fact, Islam as a religion does indeed place a significant priority on mothers. And here’s a quick reference as can be seen in the tradition transmitted by Bukhari and Muslim; ‘’It was narrated that Abu Hurayrah (may Allah be pleased with him) said: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (blessings and peace of Allah be upon him) and said: O Messenger of Allah, which of the people is most deserving of my good companionship? He said: “Your mother.” He said: Then who? He said: “Then your mother.” He said: Then who? He said: “Then your mother.” He said: Then who? He said: “Then your father.” Quite pitifully, unknown to me, death was knocking on the door again. On Thursday, 12 December, 2019, exactly a month after the passing of my mother, we lost another mother, Hajiya Sadiya Isiyaku Gwamna fondly called ‘’Mama’’ meaning ‘’Mother’’ by virtually everybody who knew her. This, again, is a great loss not only to her children, family members, but to the entire people of Gombe State and those who had the privilege of meeting or knowing her while she was alive!
I got to know Mama during my undergraduate days at Kaduna Polytechnic where I’d frequently visit her at her Kaduna residence in Anguwan Rimi, Kaduna State. Recalling, my first meeting with her was amazing. I met her praying while some women were sitting beside. I humbly waited until I was asked to be ushered in and her smiling, motherly and obliging face was reassuring. In fact, all my encounters with Mama, I would mostly meet her while in prayers. She was religiously very fervent woman and above all, she drew many to the path of humility and devotion to the virtues espoused by religion. It was at exactly 11: 55am on the 11 December, 2019 a day before her demise, I sent a text message to my brother, her son, Dr. Jamilu Isiyaku Gwamna (Sardaunan Gombe), the managing director of the Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) and he replied my message immediately as usual, promising to call me as soon as possible. Unknown to me, Sardauna was in a distressed moment because as at that time, Mama was in critical condition and was being treated in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at Muhammadu Buhari Hospital in Kano. I would later get to know of her situation by a friend, who is Saurdana’s Special Adviser, Sani Banki. He told me that Mama was in an ICU and Sardauna was at the hospital to see her situation.
Mama passed away the following day and her remains taken to Gombe where she received a befitting and well attended burial at the emir’s palace. Indeed the mammoth crowd at her burial signifies that she lived an exemplary and fulfilled life and that she had touched the life of many people positively. It was in fact, a sign good ending because, as recorded in the Hadeeth of Ibn ‘Abbaas and related by Muslim that the Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) said:
“There is no Muslim man who dies and 40 men who do not associate anything with Allah pray the funeral prayer for him, but Allah will accept their intercession for him.” Certainly, for those who know how Sardauna was close to his late mother and how he tried comforting her and provided her with all the necessary supports which a good and obedient son should offer to his parents, he will simply agree that Dr. Jamilu indeed made Mama a happy and accomplished mother. He shuttled her to a befitting health facilities here in Nigeria and abroad, only that dead is inevitable. It’s calming and consoling that the virtues that Mama inculcated in her children will forever be part of them. Today, one of her sons, Dr. Jamilu Isiyaku Gwamna, is a source of happiness and inspirations for many families – some of whom he does not personally know or have met in life. Of course, this is exactly what his late mother was telling everyone she comes across. Isn’t this fulfilling?
While we’ll always remember Mama in our prayers, it is reassuring that her name and legacies will forever be resonating in the minds of her beloved children and many of us. I pray to Allah to forgive our parents, our loved ones and grant them the highest level in Jannatul Firdausi.
Adieu Hajiya Mama! – Kera, a journalist, writes from Kaduna.