The immediate past President of the University of Uyo (UNIUYO) Alumni Association, Prof. Gabriel Umoh, has expressed thanks to the God Almighty for a successful tenure, saying that his era was eventful with a lot of reforms to reposition the association. Speaking with newsmen yesterday in Uyo  after handing over to his successor, Rt. Hon. Onofiok Luke, a former Speaker of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and the current member of the House of Representatives for Etinan Federal constituency, Umoh, charged the lawmaker to consolidate on his achievements in the last five years. Umoh, a Professor of Agricultural and Development Economics, named one of his major achievements to include “successful transition and peaceful handover to the new leadership to be led by Luke, a former student leader with great zeal to develop the association”. “At the time we came in, the association was operating for 30 years without being registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) by successive executives. We succeeded in registering the body and embark on several diplomatic maneuvers to stabilize the association which was highly factionalized and confrontational”, he said. “With the reconciliation moves, peace was restored and we had to give a sense of direction to the association by elevating the welfare of members as well as the growth and development of our alma mata”, he added. He explained that his administration had to tinker with the constitution by amending some aspects of the rules book to enable more experienced and qualified former students of school with tangible means of livelihood like Luke to lead the association for a more responsible alumni forum for sustained growth and development. The out gone era, according to Umoh, despite lean resources embarked on a 62-room guest house, 1, 400 room event centre, bookshops and business centre, donation of books and other academic materials in aid of members as well as grants to indigent students. He said the tradition of inducting graduates as alumni members during convocations were also implemented during his regime and urged the Luke era to complete some ongoing projects of his administration, lamenting that paucity of funds was the major challenge that stalled some of his vision for the association.