Prof. Ejiofor Chinedum is the newly elected President of the Institute of Chartered Economists of Nigerian (ICEN). In this interview with LEADERSHIP Friday, the new ICEN sheriff bares his mind on finding solutions to the body’s pending bill at the National Assembly. Eighteen years down the line after inauguration of ICEN, it is disturbing that even as important as the body is to the fabric of the county’s economy, it has struggled all these years to have the backing of an Act of Parliament. Can you tell what exactly could be responsible for this delay? Everything about achievement is dependent on leadership. If any country or any organization is to move forward, it depends on the kind of leaders they have. If you have visionary leaders there is a tendency that the organization will move forward. Just like what we have in America today. For decades, America economy has not grown up to 75% but Trump came on board and within few years America is celebrating economic growth. It happens in all aspects of life. So I will attribute it to the leadership we have been having in the past. It depends on what was their priorities. What they wanted to achieved. I believe that if they have made the ICEN bill their priority, it would have since become a law. So coming on board I made it my number one priority. I will do everything within my power to make sure it gets to the president to assent on the bill. But there is this conspiracy theory that there are other sisters bodies working against this effort in the past. Do you believe this to be true? No, I do not believe it. ICEN is a profession of its own but the only thing that made it looks like a duplication is because we have not made up our mind to professionalized it because a profession called economist has long ago existed within the four wall of the University and because we have not made it what it suppose to be, its impacts failed in our country’s economy and economy of every country. We have other sisters bodies who are professionals in their own lines but when you are talking about economy, it is entirely the job of an economist. The economists we had in the past were theories economists who specialized in profiling policies. We have not been able to have practical economists and my vision for this leadership is to move the economists from theories economists to practical economists. To remove it from the classroom so that we will not only have economists who propound policies but economists who practice the policies. These were the challenges we have had in the past. There are already existing professional bodies like AIAE and AFEA among other sister bodies, and one of the objectives for the establishment of ICEN is to free your members from the grip of other professional bodies. Are you not concern about the question of dublication, and what are the challenges with these bodies? No, we do not have any challenges. We are all one body. The ICEN we are talking about used to exist as chartered economists. We also have economists and these are those in the Universities and the two you mentioned but what we are doing now is to match them together. If you read my speech very well you would see where those of them gathered. So my own aime is for us to work together so that we can make the profession of economic what it suppose to be. You spoke of experience in the past and why things are not making headway in the country. What practical difference do you want to make? Like I said, the difference in every leadership depends on the passion and vision of that leader. One of my vision for the next two years of my presidency is to move the economy from theory to practice. Let me tell you the practical economists  are those who can make impact in every economy of every nation in the world. I just cited an example of the US president Donald Trump. Trump had been managing conglomerates over the world so given him the America economy to manage is not a new thing to him. It is different from bringing a professor of economic from class to become a minister of finance, a man who have not even managed a shop in his life before and you are given him a minister of finance. What does he know about the day today management of finance activities. What he has been known to is how to do research and lecture in the class room but when you now talk about him managing an organization which he does not have experience, he will of course fail. But if you give, for example, Dangote such position he will manage it well because this is what he has being doing and he has the experience. He knows the risk, he knows where to put the funds. It is different from bringing a professor who has been in class room to hand over minister of works or aviation. How will he start because he does not have experience of the office. He will still bank on the knowledge of those who have been on the day today running of the organization. So he would not have something to offer but when you bring a practitioner and make him the head he will amazed you. That is why America is celebrating 77% economic growth under president Trump because he has managed businesses over the years. So given him American business to manage is not new to him. Those that are class room are confused in America because their own is that he is not following the rule of law they have been following in theories or as their lives styles. So when a practitioner now want to implement what is suppose to be obtained, they get confused. So this is the challenge we are facing in this country. I am a professor but I am not a class room professor. I have been practicing and I want to move the economy from theories to practicals and they will see the differences as I have started. People find it very disturbing that despite the importance of Economists in national growth, students in higher institutions in the country do not find economic attractive as a course compare to other courses. What could be the reason? Because of the way those who studied economy as a professional are taking it. Children learn more of behaviors than what they are taught in class. So those who are economic professionals have not been taken it serious but believe you me, when you talk about country economy, it is the job of the economists. I’m a professor of accountant but what we do in accounting is to keep records, to make sure that these books are balance. That is what will do. To debit and credit but when you talk about managing an economy, it is the core job of economists. It is sad that professionalists are not seeing it that way and that is why students believe that economy is not a profession to depend on. But in ICEN we are able to come with the University of Economist where we will teach students that economic is a profession that needed to be taken serious. One of the things I have in mind for ICEN especially for University of Economist is to graduate job creators not job seekers. That is another problem our economy and that of other African economics have today. The University turns students into job seekers instead of job creators and that is why we have greater number of unemployment all over the world and this is the problem with Nigeria Universities. We can not keep on graduating job seekers. We will have mind set. We will begin to graduate children who will create jobs. And this is one thing I want to show in ICEN University. I want to prove to the Nigeria Universities that these things are possible, that the students we graduate, none of them will look for jobs but they will graduate with the mindset that I’m coming up to create jobs. If universities channels their mindset towards this idea, where would the unemployment problem coming from? Nobody will look for goverment jobs. You only come out and creat your own initiative and manage it very well. So this is the mindset that I am going to introduce. You sound very confident and optimistic that you can have the pending ICEN Bill pass into law in the shortest time. How do you want to do it considering the legislative politics at the National Assembly? When you read that speech you can think how possibly it is going to be but let me tell you, I am a general overseer of a ministry that is four years old with thirty four branches all over the country and outside the country. I believe that with God all things are possible. So I am coming in with the power of that my God whom I believe has the heart of queens and kings. So he can touch the heart of National Assembly and the heart of Mr President (Muhammadu Buhari) to get the bill assented for the best and growth of our Nigeria economy. 