Election observer group, Centre For Transparency  Advocacy (CTA) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of urgency re-introduce the Electoral Act amendment  bill as an Executive Bill to the National Assembly for urgent passage into law to effect positive changes that would improve the electoral process. The group in a statement by its Executive  Director, Faith Nwadishi said the President should also sign the Act into law, explaining that such action will portray President Buhari as a statesman that is committed to credible elections in the country Nwadishi said the group was reacting to last Tuesday’s charge by the President on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigerian Police to “be fair to Nigerians during elections” and urging the electoral umpire to “ensure that the game is played by the rules, without fear or favour”. She said the President will walk his talk by implementing his directive during the upcoming off season elections and especially, the governorship election in Edo state this year. The CTA boss said having appraised the charge by President Mohammadu Buhari to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigerian Police to ensure free, fair and credible elections in Nigeria therefore, issues the following statements; as a way forward “President Mohammadu Buhari should as a matter of urgency re introduce the Electoral Act amendment  bill as an Executive Bill to the National Assembly for urgent passage into law to effect positive changes that would improve the electoral process. President Buhari as a statesman should sign the Act into law as soon as passed by the National Assembly timeously.  This is key to electoral reforms and achieving credible elections in Nigeria. “It has become imperative for President Buhari to have a second look at the Justice Uwais electoral reform Committee report and implement it without further ado as this is desirable by majority of Nigerians and will improve the electoral process immensely. “The Judiciary as the last hope of the common man must live up to its expectation and above board in the sense that the Judiciary should not be seen as aiding electoral rascality and fraud.  The level of desperation by the political class should not be rewarded by the Judiciary even when diligent electoral officers were forced under duress to make returns that did not represent the will of the people as witnessed in Imo West and North Senatorial Districts in the 2019 National Assembly election.  This kind of behaviour should not be acceptable and the outcome of such elections should not be allowed to stand by the Judiciary and beneficiaries of such election malpractice must be punished. “INEC must be allowed to be truly independent. Operational budget of INEC must be treated as priority by both the Executive and the National Assembly so that INEC will prepare for elections and discharge its mandate with less constraint.” 