The Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone ‘C’ of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has intercepted and seized 333 bags of foreign rice concealed in crates of bear and malt, smuggled into the country by smugglers. Also the service impounded 4,958 pieces of used and expired motor tyres brought into the country in three containers in Benin, the Edo State capital. Comptroller Olusemire Kayode, the Customs Unit Area Controller disclosed this while briefing newsmen put the Duty Paid Value (DPV) of the prohibited items at N182 million. Kayode said that the truck conveying the bags of rice owned by one of the brewery companies was impounded on the early morning of Christmas Day on the Owerri- Port Harcourt Road by officers on patrol duty. He said that the owner of the goods (rice) must have used the truck as a disguise. Kayode said investigation was still ongoing to ascertain the number of trucks and those behind the nefarious act. The Customs boss, however, said the driver of the truck abandoned the vehicle and took to his heels upon interception by his men. “We’re not relenting on our efforts to curb the shenanigans of smugglers. During the Yuletide, we made several seizures: rice, suitcases, vegetable oil and used tyres. “Whoever sees this truck will think it’s carrying just empty crates. But concealed inside it are 230 bags of foreign rice. This is an old trick and we will continue to intercept and seize such smuggled goods because they will never escape our radar. We’re mopping up rice in this zone and anywhere we find a bag of foreign rice, we will pick it up”, Kayode said. He advised management of companies operating in the country to beware of the kind of persons they employ as drivers, disclosing that NCS would prosecute the company if it failed to produce the fleeing driver. The customs boss expressed shock that in spite of the dangerous effects of used tyres in the country, some people were still in the business of smuggling them into the country. “As you can see almost all the tyres expired since 2011. But our people don’t see any danger in bringing them into the country. “The statistics we have is that 259 people died in accidents this past Yuletide and used tyres contributed to the 90 percent of the cause of the accidents and deaths. “Because we have made the importation of rice abhorrent and loathsome, she have resorted to bringing used tyres”, he said. He advised Nigerians especially the businessmen to desist from acts that are inimical to the nation’s economy stressing that the Nigeria Customs Service is now better equipped, trained, motivated and mobilized to checkmate smugglers, their agents and collaborators in their nefarious and unpatriotic acts.