President Muhammadu Buhari has informed the Senate of his dissolution of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) board, which the upper chamber had late last year approved. The Senate had on November 5, 2019 confirmed 15 nominees for the NDDC board and withheld the confirmation of one. The confirmed nominees were the chairman, Pius Odubu (Edo); managing director, Bernard Okumagba (Delta); executive director (projects), Otobong Ndem (Akwa Ibom); executive director (finance and administration), Maxwell Okoh (Bayelsa); Delta State representative, Jones Erue; Victor Ekhatar (Edo) and Nwogu Nwogu (Abia). Others were Theodore Allison (Bayelsa), Victor Antai (Akwa Ibom), Maurice Effiwatt (Cross River), Olugbenga Elema Ondo), Uchegbu Kyrian (Imo), Northwest representatives, Aisha Muhammed (Kano), Northeast representatives, Ardo Zubairu (Adamawa), and Southwest representative, Badmus Mutalib (Lagos). The Senate, however, rejected the nomination of Joy Nunieh (Rivers). But in a dated December 23, 2019 and addressed to the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, read at the plenary yesterday, President Buhari told the Senate that he would re-constitute another NDDC board to manage the commission. The president stated that the Interim Management Committee (IMC) headed by Dr. Joi Nunieh would continue to run the commission until a forensic audit of the NDDC was carried out. Buhari said: “I write to intimate the Senate of the development concerning the appointment of the board of NDDC. ‘’The Senate may wish to note that after the dissolution of the board of the NDDC, an interim management team was set up to manage the affairs of the commission before a new board was  composed and sent for Senate confirmation. “The Senate is invited to note that while the process of composition and Senate confirmation of the appointment of the board was ongoing, I had directed that the forensic audit of the commission be carried out which is being overseen by the constituted interim management team. ‘’Based on this and in order to allow for uninterrupted process of forensic investigation, the board appointment confirmed by the Senate has to be put on hold. ‘’This is to allow the interim team continue to manage the commission pending the outcome of the forensic audit. “Thereafter, a new board of the commission will be re-composed for confirmation by the Senate. “Please accept, Distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration,” he said. President Buhari had on December 20, 2019 through his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, announced the dissolution of the NDDC board. Adesina, had in a statement, said: “President Buhari has approved that the board of the NDDC is recomposed and inaugurated after the forensic audit of the organisation. “The president has also directed that the Interim Management Team of the NDDC shall be in place till the forensic audit is completed and that the supervision of the commission shall remain under the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs,” he said.  President Seeks Confirmation Of Obiora, Others Meanwhile, President Buhari has requested the Senate to approve his appointment of Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora and Prof. Adeola Akande as deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) respectively. Both requests were contained in a letter he addressed to Lawan, which was dated January 16, 2020 and December 24, 2019, respectively. Also, appointed by Buhari was Uche Onwude as member of the NCC board. In the letter on Obiora’a appointment, the president wrote: “In accordance with the provisions of Section 8(1)(2) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) (Establishment) Act 2007, I have the pleasure to present Dr. Kingsley Isitua Obiora for confirmation as deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria.” In another letter seeking the confirmation of the NCC nominees, Buhari said: “In accordance with the provision of Section 8(1) of the Nigerian Communications Act, 2003, I write to forward, for confirmation by the Senate, the underlisted two names of nominees as chairman and member of the Governing Board of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). “The nominees are Professor Adeolu Akande (Southwest) as chairman and Mr. Uche Onwude (Southeast) as member of the NCC board.” In a related development, the Senate yesterday received a request for the confirmation of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as the director-general of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). The request was contained in a letter dated January 7, 2020 and read on the floor during plenary. Buhari said: “Pursuant to Section 8, Part IV of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (Establishment) Act, I hereby write to request for a confirmation by the Senate, the appointment of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as the director-general of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority. “Captain Nuhu is a reputable airline pilot and aviation safety expert with well over 30 years of cognate working experience in the aviation industry. A copy of his curriculum vitae is attached herewith. “In view of the strategic importance of the NCAA as the regulator of the civil aviation industry, I wish to request for the expeditious consideration and confirmation of Captain Nuhu as the substantive director-general of NCAA,” the president said.