The minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola has stated that the money which the federal government intends to borrow will be used in the development of the country’s infrastructure. The minister stressed this during his just concluded two-day inspection tour of highway projects in Niger State. The federal government had earlier proposed an external borrowing as the country’s public debt is currently put at over US$80 billion. Fashola explained that borrowing invested on infrastructure would create jobs and help the country achieve self- sustaining economy. The nation’s number one road building officer who said that a nation ‘s wealth is measured by its infrastructure however noted that, “The concerns of Nigerians on government borrowing is legitimate, but borrowing should be weighed with the problem they are used to solve. People need infrastructure, so if they can see that the money borrowed is used to deliver critical infrastructure, then their queries can be assuaged.” Fashola was making the clearification as virtually all the contractors on the highways visited outlined their pressing challenges to include: inadequate funding, indiscriminate parking of trucks on portions of the road under construction, market encroachment onto access roads to the site which results in heavy traffic, preventing free movement of logistics to and fro site, and high rate of compensation claims by residents. On the issue of compensation, Fashola told the Mokwa community in the state that the state governments are the owners and managers of land, as such should be to settle all land matters with their people for the road to pass in their own economic interest. He said: “It is the responsibility of the state and local governments to settle these challenges so that the federal government can face the problem of funding the construction of these roads.’’ He also explained that one of the issues which bring about such challenges is the land use act that is over 40 years old. He equally directed the states and local governments to ensure that all trucks parked where road construction should be going on leave for their designated parks. A Aliyu Goro, a resident of Mokwa told journalists that the road, when completed, would be of immense benefit to “our people who are largely farmers by reducing the heavy traffic that usually impede free movement of people and goods along the Jebba-Mokwa-Bokani road because that will bring about easy and timely transportation of the people’s farm products to the market. “Even as it is now, I think we are already benefitting because members of our community are employed to do some aspects of the construction works. So, government should ensure that the good work it has started is completed on schedule,” he noted. There are 16 federal projects in the state. The five that were visited by the Minister include: dualisation of Suleja-Minna Phase I and phase II; reconstruction of Bida-Lapai-Lambata road;  construction of Agaie-Katcha-Barro road; dualisation of Jebba-Mokwa-Bokani road, and rehabilitation of New Bussa-Kaiama road.