The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ado Ekiti, branch has declared that the Southwest governors, have not erred by establishing a joint security outfit codenamed, ‘Operation Amotekun’. It added that the governors while exercising their rights under the law to establish the security network, had not breached any section of the 1999 constitution, since it was the responsibility of the government guarantee security of lives and property. There have criticisms from some quarters following the inauguration of the security outfit in Ibadan, Oyo State capital last week. The NBA Chairman, Ado Ekiti branch, Barrister Samuel Falade, in a telephone chat with newsmen said though Sections 214 and 215 of the 1999 Constitution mandated the police as the agency responsible for the protection of lives and properties to provide security,  that does not stop the governors from taking further measures to reinforce protection for the citizens. “However, chapter 2, section 14 (2b) gives mandate and rights to president and governors to provide security across the country and in their respective    states, that the primary duty of government is to protect lives and property. “Also, section 20 of Administration of criminal justice allows a private citizen to arrest any criminal and handover to the police for investigation and prosecution. Under this context, operatives of operation Amotekun can arrest and handover to the police for proper action. “I see no reason why people should criticise the body or entertain fears, because the governors had spoken about the modus operandi of  Amotekun, which was that they would work alongside with the police, NSCDC and Army. “We had had several cases of kidnapping, killings and ritual cases among other crimes in the region in the last few years and there must be proactive innovation   complement conventional security architecture to rise to these sordid situations. “The essence of Amotekun is to rise to the present insecurity in the South-west and governors as Chief Security Officers can design ways to protect their citizens as long as such step is in line with the law, which was the case with Amotekun”,  he said. 