Director-General of the National Council for Arts & Culture, Mr. Otunba Runsewe says the Asian Fil Festival will be featuring in Nigeria’s Culture Calendar starting from the year 2021. Otunba who spoke at the 3rd Asian Film Festival, which opened January 23, says the eight participating countries play strong roles working with Nigeria in understanding and addressing their cultural differences. “I am happy that countries in Nigeria are partnering to strengthen their bi-lateral relations in Nigeria. We believe we can learn from each other’s cultural strengths and make them better and stronger.” Addressing Nigeria’s efforts to promoting understanding of her cultures abroad through films, Runsewe reveals that about twelve Nigerian embassies abroad participate in similar event to showcase Nigeria’s culture through Nollywood films. Although the impact of such a minimal number doesn’t seem to make any reasonable dent in Nigeria’s public image abroad, Runsewe says a lot has changed. “There is an understanding that Nigeria has something to offer with our films. Sharing with the Asian community is an opportunity to expose our own strength in our country,” concludes Runsewe, although no Nigeria films featured at the festival as ASEAN festival attempts to. The 3rd Asian film festival was hosted by the Islamic Republic of Iran, and features the best of movies from the eight participating countries which includes, Republic of Iran, Peoples Republic of China, Republic of Korea, Japan, Republic of Indonesia, Peoples Republic of Bangladesh, with Syrian Arab Republic, and Palestine participating for the first time. “The film industry id one of the most effective and powerful means of conveying cultural concepts,” says Cultural Consular (and Ambassador) of Iran to Nigeria, Mr. S.M Azimi Nasrabad. “I am very much convinced that culture can play an effective role in creating better understanding and dispelling misconceptions among nationalities, and that’s what this event is about,” says High Commissioner of Bangladesh to Nigeria, Mr. Md. Shameem Ahsan whose country is participating for the second time in the festival. “We are glad to participate in the festival. The festival has selected some of the best entertaining, informative and educating films. I also call on other Asian countries to participate in the next edition,” adds Ambassador of Syria, Mr. Mohamad Aboserriah. Debuting in 2017, the festival participants seems to have dropped by two countries despite gaining two additional entrants since the second edition in 2018, which recorded nine countries. “We hope that with the help of Nigeria’s Arts and Culture, and the DG of the NCAC, we will be assisted in submitting this festival as one of the most important festivals in Nigeria,” concludes consular Nasrabad. The festival runs from January 23 to 25, 3pm till 7pm, featuring two to three movies per day, is open to all and features eight movies in total.