The Presidential Support Committee (PSC) has come down hard on Senate Minority leader, Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe, saying it was irresponsible of him to call for the resignation of President Muhammadu Buhari over the security challenges in the country. Abaribe’s call for Buhari’s resignation on Wednesday, which sparked mixed reactions leading to the creation of the hashtag #Buhariresign on social media, had remained the number one trending topic on Twitter yesterday, garnering over 21,000 tweets. Making the call during plenary on Wednesday, Abaribe who was faulted the president for failing to tackle the security challenges in the country. But hitting back at the Senator, the PSC, in a statement by its director of communication and strategic planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, regretted that such utterances could come from a federal lawmaker. Ibrahim said, “In a sane society, Abaribe would not still be a senator. This is a senator who stood as surety for a fugitive, Nnamdi Kanu, that is still at large, and he is here discussing security issues after giving support to a dissident and an enemy of the Nigerian state. “President Muhammadu Buhari will not resign because of politicians like Abaribe who would always choose to stand the truth on its head. This is the same Abaribe who was impeached as deputy governor and his people still went ahead and voted him as senator? Our biggest problem is that people still can’t assess who a true leader is or perhaps, the people are just not allowed to freely choose who should lead the at the federal level. “We wonder why a member of an arm of government that constitutes the federal government would asked an elected president to resign instead of coming up with constructive ideas to end insecurity, a good reason why he was elected into the federal legislature in the first place”. The PSC further questioned the moral right giving Abaribe the guarantee to ask the president to resign, just as it said Abaribe was merely playing to the gallery. Ibrahim continued: “From an impeached deputy governor to a senator and a surety for a fugitive, and now becoming a minority leader in the hallowed red chamber, Abaribe cannot claim any moral right to seek for President Buhari’s resignation. That is the problem with our politicians; they just love to play to the gallery. Instead of finding out the best possible solutions like making laws to enact community policing, the Senator would prefer a show for the cameras. “But we understand the character of his mental indolence. He can only suggest ways and ideas to contribute in addressing the security challenges if only he has the capacity to do so. But he lacks the mental capacity to come up with solutions. “President Buhari has done a lot to contain insurgency, banditry and other forms of criminality. This is why we have not had it so bad like in the previous PDP administration. We urge Nigerian to ignore politicians like Abaribe who have turned themselves to enemies of Nigeria. Let’s join hand with the president and fight the insecurity starring us in the face, hoping that one day it will be a thing of the past.”  