Jere community along Abuja-Kaduna expressway in Kaduna State has appealed to Nigerians, especially investors not to entertain the fear of being kidnapped or violently rubbed by armed bandits, saying it has put measures in place in conjunction with security agencies to ensure that such criminal acts do not prevail in the area. The Sarkin Jere (paramount Chief), HRH, Alh. Abdullahi Daniya made the appeal recently when the Minister of Industries, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adebayo was on a one-day working visit to the steel and iron ore mining plant being built by African Natural Resources and Mines Ltd, a subsidiary of African Industries Group in Gujeni village of Jere in Kagarko LGA of Kaduna State. The traditional ruler who lauded the initiative of President Muhammadu Buhari to facilitate locally inspired development through establishment of industries in the country said “This project is going to be a lifesaving venture as it is key to the economic development of my people so we are 100% prepared to support the project fruition, and we are doing everything possible to guarantee the security of investors and their investments. The Chief who expressed worry over reports of kidnappers being on the rampage along the Abuja-Kaduna road said none of the criminals ever arrested was a resident of Jere, but because Jere is the most prominent town along the road, whenever it happens, people report it as Jere. “We are seriously working with the police and that is why in recent time there has been no such report and kidnapping or armed robbery. “Jere is now calm and safe and we want more investors to come because we have enough space for them, and we can guarantee their security and that of their investment,” he said. Collaborating his boss’ statement, the Salenken Jere and Public Relations Officer (PRO) of Jere Chiefdom, Alh. Yakubu Hamza Jere expressed gratitude to God that the usual relative calm and decriminalised society which used to be characteristic of the area before the era of kidnapping and other forms of armed crime has returned as a result of intensified effort between the community and the police on security which now warrants residents to sleep with their two eyes closed. Stressing that Jere is a peace loving community that is very hospitable to incomers, he said most of the kidnappers arrested so far are not from Jere, but because Jere is such a popular town with a Police Divisional Headquarters, all those arrested from neighbouring states and brought to Jere are taken to be of Jere extraction. According to him, a central committee with members drawn from all the villages within the chiefdom is now in place to report any unusual or suspicious movement to the security agencies with immediate alacrity. “Jere is very safe for any investor to come in; their safety is guaranteed,” he said. The Chairman, Kagarko LGA, Nasara Auza Rabo said the project is welcome by the people in all honesty as it will be of great benefit to the economy.