Recently, Mercedes Benz introduced the new Mercedes-Benz V-Class. Since its introduction, the V-Class has gone on to revolutionise the multi-purpose vehicle (MPV) segment with its high-class appeal, comfort, efficient driving pleasure and safety. The MPV also  caters to a growing customer group who are in need of a generous amount of space but never wanted to drive an MPV because style, a sense of well-being and ride comfort have been lacking. For the comfort of all travels, Weststar Associates Limited, Authorised General Distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria is offering the all-new facelift V-Class. According to Weststar, the V-Class easily makes for a saloon for up to 8 people, adding that the philosophy around the design is a combination of functionality, comfort, and style in a way no other vehicle in this segment can offer. The exterior, the auto firm stated, is striking with an emotional and dynamic appearance, while the interior comes in a modern style and with high-class appeal, putting great emphasis on comfort. Other highlights in the V-Class include Mercedes-Benz intelligent drive, highly efficient engines and more personalized driving systems. “The exterior of the V-Class has a broader appearance and an even stronger visual presence thanks to its new front end. This comes courtesy of a new bumper design with striking cooling air inlets and a new diamond structure in the radiator grille. The Mercedes star is positioned centrally in the radiator grille and framed by two slats in silver,” the company stated. “The V-Class is the first vehicle in the segment which provides all light functions in LED technology as an optional feature. The all-LED headlamps with Intelligent Light System make for a visual highlight as it also enhances safety. The LED headlamps come with 34 LEDs in each headlamp that give the vehicle an unmistakable appearance, and compared with conventional systems, offer much improved vision in the dark.” There are also four new light-alloy wheel designs which present an even more striking appearance; they include 5-twin-spoke 17-inch, 18-inch and 19-inch light-alloy wheels. Another highlight of the exterior is the separately opening rear windscreen and second loading level, which is attached to the upper level of the tailgate. It can be opened and closed independently of the tailgate, which makes loading and unloading easier in two respects – on the one hand, it allows a second loading level; while also particularly in tight parking spaces there is no need to open the large tailgate. The interior redefines the meaning of spaciousness in an MPV. Following the trend of modernity and clarity, the V-Class presents itself with new air vents in a sportier turbine look as well as new dials in the instrument cluster. The new upholstery and equipment color tartufo nappa leather makes a modern and elegant statement with a total of six different upholsteries in light and dark colors to choose from. Modern and elegant can also be used to describe the new trim element in twin-stripe look which is used on the instrument panel and side paneling. Other highlights include the free-standing central display, the multifunction steering wheel with 12 function keys and DIRECT SELECT selector lever (plus steering-wheel shift paddles with automatic transmission) as well as the innovative touchpad, which allows all telematics functions with gestures or by entering letters and characters like on a smartphone. The touchpad is available in conjunction with Audio 20 CD or Comand Online. The latest generation of COMAND Online combines all audio, telephone and navigation functions. Speaking on the arrival of the new V-Class, Mr Mirko Plath, CEO, Weststar Associates Limited said, “The Mercedes-Benz V-Class has definitely become a star in the MPV segment with luxury and comfort playing a key part. More Nigerians have chosen the V-Class over its competitors and with a handful of innovation in the facelift, we expect even more orders for the V-Class in 2020. “Whether you’re off on a business trip or travelling with the whole family, the V-Class provides optimum flexibility when it comes to comfort levels of the interior and it cuts an elegant figure at the same time. The emphasis on comfort and style doesn’t just give you a luxury Mercedes as an MPV, but also a functional vehicle that looks to accommodate more. As we gear up for business in the New Year, the V-Class is the ideal vehicle for those looking for luxury and comfort.”