At Havard or London Business School or other foreign institution, they called Dr. Abdulmumin Jibrin by the acronym — ‘ABDU-JIBRIN’. Simply put as such because the ‘white men’ or his professors could not pronounce Abdulmu’umin properly in the more accurate arabic text (even most Nigerians or blacks too cannot). So when we meet them in london, we are partly dismayed when they say; ABDUJIBRIN! In KIRU/ BEBEJI, which is his constituency at Kano from where he has been winning elections since 2011 (and as a first termer in the 7th Assembly where he became the Chairman House Committee on Finance where he always gave Okonjo Iweala a strained shoulder and a bruised ego) — he is known as MALIYA! Maliya is the hausa name for the Nile river that flows through Africa as the longest river in Africa and the world. We were befuddled by the nickname MALIYA as we heard it for the first time when he went to vie for the party nominations for the seat of the House of Representatives member at Kiru/ Bebeji Federal Constituency. The people of Kiru-Bebeji called him MALIYA because they had encountered an individual that was overtly generous, and all they could liken him to, was The River Nile — because he flowed them with wealth endlessly; just like the ever flowing Nile. Abdu-Jibrin or Maliya or Abdulmumini, or Main man as he was called by FELA (our own FELA at the University of Abuja), is the MAIN MAN of the youths in Nigerian politics of today where it is now never too young to run. He was the youngest ever legislator to ascend the exalted or juicy seat of Finance committee Chairman from 2011 to 2015. From 2015 to 2016/17, he was also Chairman Appropriation committee and a kingmaker in the 8th Assembly of our ‘Russian roulette house of representatives’, just as he also was a kingmaker in the 7th Assembly. He repeated the same feat in the 9th assembly, featuring most prolificly and eloquently, as the campaign co-ordinator of the Gbajabiamila/ Wase leadership ticket. He delivered adequately and eloquently, with a style of nomination on the floor of the green chamber of the 9th assembly, that is only seen in movies, or at the british house of lords, in a rendition by a member of the house of lords; especially that of a Labour party member of the prestigious house! Kano politics had been visited by a youth with an academic pedigree that arguably ‘has never been seen before’, venturing into politics, making a mark and causing an absolute difference in the way of the politics at the suburbs of Kano state. He holds a BSc, and MSc, and a PhD from UniAbuja (1999) and ABU Zaria, with versatility in business, politics, leadership, diplomacy and political economy. He holds a PLD SEP and MBA from London business school and SBS-Swiss business school Zurich Switzerland. He is also an Alumnus of the London, Harvard and Swiss Business Schools. Before joining politics, he was Chairman/ CEO of Green Forest Group Ltd. which has interests in construction, mechanised agriculture and property. He was Chairman of Nigeria’s Turkish construction giant, TASYAPI, as well as the Chairman of the Nigeria-British chamber of commerce, Abuja chapter. He taught politics, political economy, diplomacy and strategic studies in various universities all on pro-bono basis. He has three books to his credit, including a version with French translation. He has numerous awards and is a fellow of very many professional bodies including the Chattered Institute of Finance and Control. He also is a fellow of Paul Harris Rotary International. He is the JARMA of Bebeji, which is a traditional title that was bestowed on him by the Hakimi or Sarki of Bebeji, as a recognition and commendation of his outstanding generosity as well as contribution to the rapid development of the Bebeji society. Main man’s entry into the Kiru political terrain heralded a new vista in suburban kano politics, where he challenged an incumbent from a traditional party that had for years ushered in the governor of the state, as well as the senator and rep member for the Kiru/ Bebeji constituency; so goes for the state assembly member. He shifted the table, turned it upside down and emancipated his people with a brand new and youthful political style. He preached equality and practised benevolence. He was maliya the giver, to a fault. He built libraries, filling stations, business plazas and really transformed the constituency’s economy. He also spent eloquently on education, building a massive girl-child school where he would offer free education to the girls in his constituency. We lost Nasiru Bako, friend, colleague and brother, on our way back to Abuja from Bebeji back in 2011, just after my chairman had won Kiru/ Bebeji house of representatives seat. (I was Abdul’s chief operating officer at Green Forest Group, after working at Securities & Exchange Commission). Abdul has built a foundation in honor of our late Bako, and a massive library at Bebeji in his name. He also built a mosque that used to be a make-shift mosque for travellers plying the Abuja-Kaduna expressway. The location was Nasiru’s favorite spot, where he always stopped the campaign conveys and teams, so that we can pray the short ‘qasr’ or travellers ‘subsidized’ prayer. Nasiru died on my shoulders as our car sommersaulted into the bush. I, Alhaji Buhari and Alhaji Buhari’s driver survived the ghastly accident. I fainted and woke up in a hospital. Fast forward to today’s 2019, Abdul’s election was cancelled on the basis of some anormalies at some wards in his constituency but glaringly, he is a victim of political brigandage. He is a victim because he is a youth and every now and then, exudes exuberance. He is a victim because he is an educated politician and a vocal young man who may not get it right all the time, but will, some day soon. Abdul inspired me into politics and I ran home in 2015 to contest for the same house of representatives. In 2015, most of our colleagues that had a flare for politics back in school were in the national assembly at the time. Abdul is usually cantankerous, but in issues, on policies and on substance. Abdul is a perfectionist and wants to get everything inch-perfect. Abdul is also a victim of his mis-steps, and I want to believe that his coming re-run elections is a test, and a trial that shall become a tribulation on that same day, the 25th of January, 2020 Insha Allah. The main man of the youths in parliament or the legislative arm of government deserves a second chance and we are all solidly behind him, as one of the champions of youths in Nigerian politics. Like Elrufai says — ‘if you do not give youths a chance and groom them as they make mistakes in politics, and in governance, when do you want to be ready for a better future’?  – Tahir is Talban Bauchi.