Recently, there was an allegation against the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) over the ongoing recruitment of 3,200 personnel into the Service. In this report, YUSUF BABALOLA examines the facts of the matter. It was reported in a section of the media recently that the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) got an approval of N1.6 billion to recruit 3,200 job seekers in the ongoing employment exercise. The vice chairman, Senate Committee on Customs, Ade Fadahunsi, accused the Comptroller General of NCS, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), of paying a whopping sum of N1.6 billion to a consultant for the recruitment of 3,200 personnel into the service. He said: “The CG wants to recruit 3,200 persons and he paid N1.6 billion to a consultant to recruit 3,200 persons. The money is not for training but to just recruit them. I asked him if the Nigerian Army ever used consultants to recruit personnel and he said, no. He said Customs officers are corrupt, hence, he is bringing in a consultant to recruit 3,200 persons and he will pay the firm N1.6 billion.’’ But, the NCS has described the allegations as untrue and a script to tarnish the image of the Customs CG. A source in the NCS, who spoke on the condition of anonymity said, “The allegation particularly is disheartening and unfortunate because the distinguished Senator is also a retired senior Customs officer who is expected to be well informed about the operations of the service and ought not to have made such a weighty allegation knowing fully well that it is not true.’’ According to the source in the NCS, the agency said it is not the policy of NCS to join issues with other government agencies or officials on the pages of newspapers, but added that, it was compelled to react in this instance because the Senator used his privileged position to go public with his allegation. As far as the NCS is concerned, spending of N1.6 billion for the recruitment of 3,200 people, as alleged by the Senator Fadahunsi, is a figment of imagination of fifth columnists. The NCS said the 2020 Budget Proposal of the service is clear on this. The source said: ‘‘The NCS 2020 Budget Proposal is a public document that everyone who is interested could verify.  The Senator is the Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Customs to whom the NCS has forwarded 25 hard copies and a soft copy of the Budget Proposal. Even in his intended act of mischief, he cannot claim ignorance of the fact that all he alluded to is contained in the NCS Budget.’’ The NCS also dispelled the allegation of increasing the projects of the Customs headquarters from N2.7billion to N30 billion. According to the source, “For the avoidance of doubt, the contract for the construction of NCS corporate headquarters was awarded at the sum of N2.88billion in 2006, that is, 14 years ago. Initially, the headquarters was to be located at the Central Business District, Abuja. However, the original site was reallocated to another government Agency by the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) and another bigger site allocated to the NCS. Consequently, to comply with the FCDA Plot of Land Utilization Requirement which requires that a certain percentage of the land should be put into use, a new and bigger design was drawn. This led to the contract being revised in October 2010 to the tune of N4.5billion. ‘‘The contract was further revised in 2012 to the tune of N9.92hillion when the frame structure was 100 percent completed and works on the finishing was about to commence, the then management of the NCS invited the project consultant for a meeting on 15th December, 2014.’’ The source further told LEADERSHIP that at the meeting, the NCS was informed that an interior designer was engaged by the management and the interior designer presented proposal for some modifications which has been approved the management. Speaking further, the source said, “This modification is what largely formed part of the project review undertaken by the NCS management. It should be noted that all this took place before the present management came into office in 2015.” LEADERSHIP also gathered that the present management, after conducting due diligence on the modifications, processed the review to Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) and subsequently to the Federal Executive Council (FEC). The review was said to have been approved by FEC on 21st March, 2018 to the tune of N15.6billion. It was the last review on the construction of the corporate headquarters and that the contract amount still stands as such. The NCS said its hands are clean and has therefore, supported those calling for a Public Hearing on the subject to determine the truth or otherwise of the allegations. The source said that leadership of the National Assembly should, in the interest of Justice and fair play, conduct a Public Hearing and ensure that adequate sanctions are meted out to whoever is found wanting as far as dissemination of wrong information on the project is concerned. Meanwhile, stakeholders have commended the NCS for generating the sum of N1.341 trillion as revenue in 2019. The Customs Public Relations Officer, Mr Joseph Attah had in a statement in Abuja recently said that the amount generated was more than the target of  N969.831 billion set for the year. The Comptroller-General of Customs, Col, Hameed Ali (Rtd) commended the Service for achieving the feat. He attributed it to the resolute pursuit of what was right rather than compromising national interest on the altar of individual or group’s interests. Ali said the revenue generation profile of the Service had continued to be on the rise annually as the ongoing reforms were being implemented. According to him, the reforms are the strategic deployment of officers strictly using the standard operating procedure and strict enforcement of extant guidelines by the tariff and trade department. He said automation of the customs process and robust stakeholders’ sensitisation resulting in more informed and voluntary compliance had helped to boost revenue. “The partial border closure which has forced cargoes that could have been smuggled through the porous borders to come through the sea and airports raised revenue collection of ports. “Before commencement of the border drill on Aug. 20, 2019, revenue generation was between N4 billion to N5 billion but now, the Service generates between N5 billion to N7 billion daily. “The partial border closure is a decisive action against the challenging issue of trans-border crime and criminalities, fueled by the noncompliance to ECOWAS Protocol on the transit of goods by neighbouring countries. “The NCS hopes that the ongoing discussions with our neighbours will yield a permanent solution to the challenges of border security. “The Service wishes to express its readiness to strictly implement the outcome of the ongoing diplomatic engagements,’’ he said. Similarly, Attah disclosed that the Service made seizures of 30,906 assorted items with a duty paid value of N62.134 billion. He said the seizures included arms, ammunition, illicit drugs, used clothing, vegetable oil, frozen poultry and foreign rice among others. The Service spokesman said the items seized would have had grave consequences on the nation’s economy, security and wellbeing of Nigerians. Attah assured Nigerians of total commitment to the course of nation-building and urged them, especially the business community to support customs on the ongoing drive to robustly contribute to national security and create enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the country.  Going Forward Stakeholders said that with more stakeholders calling for a public hearing on the matter at hand, and the customs also calling for similar hearing, the National Assembly should, as a matter of urgency, set up such an investigation panel to unravel the corruption allegation. After which whoever is found culpable should be made to face the wrath of the law.