Recently, the federal government disclosed its plan to open the country’s borders to holders of African international passports in 2020. In this piece, ANTHONY AWUNOR examines the implications to both Nigeria as a country and non-Nigerian travellers. The federal government has announced its plans to open its borders to holders of African passports this year. As a follow up and to clarify the processes involved, the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) recently issued a public notice detailing requirements for non-Nigerian passengers travelling to Nigeria. In the official document made available to LEADERSHIP Sunday and signed by the Service Public Relations Officer, DCI Sunday James, the NIS stated that the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) community citizens and countries with visa abolition agreement with Nigeria require no visa for entry to Nigeria. The Service however, noted that such travellers must enter with valid travel documents and through approved entry point. According to the NIS, holders of African Union Passports desiring to enter Nigeria on short visits can obtain visa on arrival at any of the five international airports. It further added that holders of valid diplomatic/official passports from countries with which Nigeria has visa waiver agreement can enter Nigeria without visa through the approved entry point.  “Visa such as for residents, Temporary Work Permit and Dependents are to be obtained at our Embassies or Consular Missions or Visa Processing Centres before commencing such journey to Nigeria. “All other passengers who are not holders of member countries of ECOWAS and Africa Union passport applying for business purpose will apply for Visa on arrival via portal.immigration.gov.ng and must obtain approval online before commencement of journey to Nigeria. All categories of applicants that require visa for entry into Nigeria are expected to pay online, since cash payment is not allowed”, the Service emphasised. NIS equally informed that the Service position on this statement has been communicated to all airlines and international airports for compliance, adding that “airlines will not allow passengers to board without complying with the conditions stated. “The Comptroller General of Immigration, Muhammed Babandede hereby calls on genuine investors and other categories of travelers to Nigeria to take advantage of the innovation as it improves migration, transparency, security in our operations”, NIS advised.  Enhancing Tourisms/business Nigeria is not alone in this type of visa policy regime. In fact, most countries around the world are liberalising their visa regimes to allow more foreign travellers into their territories. Nations around the world are growing their share of global tourism by opening their borders to enable seamless entrance procedures. Without compromising national security and immigration concerns, European countries, except United Kingdom and Ireland allow citizens of European Unions (EU) to enjoy freedom of movement in each other’s territories. The nationals are not only visa-exempt, but are legally entitled to enter and reside in each other’s countries. According to recent reports, it is getting easier for Africans to travel across their own continent with the various liberalisation of visa regimes unlike in the past. African Union (AU) has long held up its goal of integration and freer movement of Africans within the continent. The reality however, is that it has been easier for North American or European passport holders to travel around Africa than for Africans themselves. According to Africa Development Bank’s (AfDB) Visa Openness Index for 2019, Africans today have travel access to 51 per cent of the continent and now only need visas to travel to fewer than half of other African countries. Of the 51 per cent of countries Africans can access more freely, 26 per cent offer visas on arrival, while 25 per cent do not require prior visas from African travellers. Out of the 25 per cent without prior visas, only two countries have free visa entries for all citizens of the continent – Seychelles and Benin Republic, while eight others open their borders to some specified countries on the continent. For instance, Senegal opened its borders to 22 countries in Africa, Rwanda; 17, Ghana; 18, Uganda; 18, Guinea Bissau; 14, Cape Verde; 16, Togo; 14 and Mauritania with nine visa-exempt for African countries. Also, Ethiopia announced a more liberal visa on arrival policy for African travellers in October 2018 and jumped a record 32 places on the Visa Openness index. Senegal, Angola, Ghana, Benin and Gabon are also credited with taking up more open visa policies for Africans over the past year. Overall, 28 per cent of African countries improved their visa openness scores in the period. Nigeria, has already committed to begin issuing visas on arrival for all African nationals this year. The pronouncement was made on December 11, 2019 by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Aswan Forum for Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa, in Egypt. According to President Buhari, the visa-on-arrival policy means that African travellers don’t need to make prior visa applications in their home countries before boarding the plane to Nigeria. He said that this was part of the country’s plans to make travel and tourism much easier and more appealing. Explaining further, Buhari said: “We in Nigeria have already taken the strategic decision to bring down barriers that have hindered the free movement of our people within the continent by introducing the issuance of visa at the point of entry into Nigeria to all persons holding passports of African countries, with effect from January 2020. “Nigeria is committed to supporting the free movement of Africans within Africa. We should furthermore promote free trade within and amongst Africa and Africans especially now that we have launched the African Free Trade Area Agreement,” President Buhari said. Mixed Reactions to the Policy Since the announcement was made, there have been divergent views from different players in the travel and security industries. While the tourism professionals lauded the initiative, describing it as good for the country, security analysts cautioned the government against hasty implementation of the new regime, citing existing insecurity in the country. The Senate is not left out of the determination of the visa policy framework. Only recently, the upper chamber of the National Assembly added its voice to the number of critics against the pronouncement. The Senate said it was premature, considering the spate of insecurity in the country and summoned Rauf Aregbesola, the Minister of Interior along with Mohammed Babandede, the Comptroller-General of Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) to appear before its Committee on Interior, Judiciary and Legal matters to explain the legality, logistics and constitutional issues available and required for compliance, before the implementation of the policy. Sadly, LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered  that, even as at now, African travellers at all the entry points of Nigeria still go through the same procedure as other travellers, passing through a lot of tedious checks and processes. Besides, the challenges air travellers face, those who use land mode of transport are also not spared of the difficulties associated with migrating from one African country to the other. Need For Security Profiling Commenting on the policy, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd), the chief executive officer, Centurion Security Services said the policy was a good one and developmental, but cautioned government on its implication on national security. He said that the burden of facilitation of such passengers should not be left with Immigration alone to handle, stressing that it must include intelligence gathering and profiling of passengers by the various security agencies in the country of departure and arrival. He said: “There is nothing wrong with visa-on-arrival, but on the side of national security, the burden of the facilitation must not be on the immigration service alone. “Because of the state of our national security and the global activities of internal terrorism especially their affiliate to Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIS), there would be need for the security agencies of the countries of origin and Nigeria to continue sharing intelligence and the profiles of the prospective passengers before their departure from origin and arrival at destination. “Without putting these processes in the preplanned visit, those passengers on security watch-list or no fly list could escape surveillance. The insecurity caused by the homegrown terrorism with international affiliates to ISIS calls for caution.” On the economic benefits of the policy to Nigeria, Ojikutu said it would contribute to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), but said there should be a measure to determine its contribution. He warned that if there were no measures in place to determine the benefits to the country’s economy, Nigeria may end up acquiring more human liabilities from other countries. “Overall, our security agencies must have a coordinated agency beyond the office of the National Security Adviser; an executive national security agency that will coordinate and analyse the various intelligence of the police, Department of State Security (DSS), Military, foreign intelligence,” he added.  Benefits Besides, Mr. Ade Adegboro, a tourism analyst, said that Europe for instance had been the world’s leading tourism destination for decades because of its relaxed visa policy. He said the European continent welcomed over 600 million international tourists in 2018 who spent €455 billion during their stays, stressing that about 51 per cent of all the world’s tourist arrivals were to Europe within the year. According to Adegbenro, over nine per cent of Europe’s GDP comes from tourism; directly or indirectly, noting that the sector employed nearly 40 million people in the region within the same period. Ambassador Gani Lawal, the president, Association of Foreign Relations Professionals of Nigeria (AFRPN), said the new visa policy would deepen the people-to-people exchanges between Nigerians and other Africans, as well as improve intra-Africa trade, which he said was mostly informal. “If we now have a visa regime in which a visitor can enter the country with visa on arrival, it is good because it will ease other Africans’ business engagements with their Nigerian partners. It will also encourage other African countries to open up because visa is reciprocal; whatever we do to your citizens, we expect you to also do to our citizens. Nigeria is playing a leadership role. This will encourage other African countries to follow suit,” he said. In his views, secretary general,Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), Comrade Abdulrasaq Saidu opined that visa-on- arrival, when issued to travelers is very good, only if the laid down procedures are judiciously followed. He said that once the travellers do what is expected of them, there is no cause to worry but he, however, expressed fears that the implementation may be difficult due to logistic reasons. “It is very good because the NIS has spelt out modalities to be followed by each category of travelers. But you know, travelers coming into Nigeria are too many. In addition to that, there is no power supply and equipment needed to process these documents may not be readily available. These factors pose a lot of challenges to the implementation”, Saidu explained. Meanwhile, a recent report had claimed that some 67 million tourists visited Africa in 2018, representing a rise of seven per cent from a year earlier, making Africa the second-fastest growing region when it comes to tourism, after Asia Pacific. The report indicated that African countries are now reaping the benefits from positive policy changes coupled with increased investments in the sector, that have made it a more attractive destination for tourists.