The coalition For Peace and Mobilisation For Good Governance (CFPMGG) , has commended Borno state governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum for his detribalised behaviour in governance and administration of welfare of citizens. The coalition noted that since the governor was elected and sworn-in , he has been working hard to ensure that every individual in the state gets the dividends of democracy irrespective of religion, tribe or ethnicity. Speaking to newsmen on Saturday in Maiduguri after its extraordinary meeting, the new chairman of the coalition, Engnr. James Chukwudi Adex , who succeeded the former chairman, late Prince Okwudili Ezechukwu ,who died recently after a brief illness, expressed gratitude to Zulum for the roles he played at the demise and burial of the former Chairman. Engnr Adex said the governor apart from physically attending the wake-keep of the late former Chairman, with financial support to the bereaved family, as well sent delegates of over three commissioners and personal aides with financial support for the burial , which took place at Anambra, the late Ezechukwu’s home state. He added that the governor who equally provided free buses for members of the coalition to attend the burial down east, also offered scholarship to the surviving children of the late Prince Ezechukwu to the University level and has continued to care for the family. The coalition Chairman said:” On behalf of CFPMGG , I want to express our gratitude to governor Babagana Umara Zulum for the support he has rendered to us and the family of our late chairman, Prince Okwudili Ezechukwu who recently passed on after a brief illness. ” The support demonstrated by the governor had exposed him as one who has no tribal or religious sentiment in the governance of Borno state. ” Apart from this, as coalition for peace and mobilization for good governance, we have seen how governor Zulum is touring the nooks and crannies of the state delivering dividends of democracy, executing and mapping out projects in both muslim and christian communities despite the threats from the Boko Haram terrorists. ” We as a body will continue to make meaningful contributions for the development and restoration of peace to the state which has made most of us what we are today,” Adex further said. He urged members and residents to continue to pray for a quick end to the insurgency so as to return Borno to the glorious ” home of peace” it is known for. End