An outbreak of Lassa fever in Borno State has claimed the life of  a 24-year-old man, while three other suspected cases recorded are under investigation. The state commissioner of Health, Dr. Salisu Kwayar Bura, made the disclosure at a press conference held on Thursday in Maiduguri. The commissioner noted that since the first case of Lassa fever through a German woman in Lassa in 1969, which gave the name of the disease, this is the second outbreak to be recorded in Borno State. He said the deceased travelled to Hawul and returned back to Maiduguri, before being admitted to the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH), where the symptoms manifested with sample taken from her testing positive. He said of the three cases under investigation, one is a health with two other individuals, who are presently being managed in rapid response facility created by the state against the disease. Bura said:” While it is my responsibility to inform the public about the outbreak, I call for calm, as the state has put necessary measures to halt the further outbreak. “ On the fate of the internally displaced persons (IDPs ) living in the camps over the outbreak, the commissioner explained that the IDPs have no need to worry, as the state is readily prepared for any emergency. Meanwhile, the Delta State government has allayed the fears of residents in the state over the incidence of recorded cases of Lassa fever at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Asaba and at the same time assured of its ability to control the spread in the state. The commissioner for Health, Dr Mordi Ononye, made this known yesterday when he briefed the press on the emergence of the disease at the Zonal Office of the Nigeria Institute of Medical Research, Asaba. He said of the two cases recorded at the FMC, Asaba, one of them – a single mother – was brought to FMC, Asaba, on Saturday, 11th January and unfortunately died the following day Sunday 12th January. According to Dr Ononye, the other patient –  a corps member serving in the state – was also taken to FMC, Asaba, on Sunday 19th and was referred to Irrua Specialist Hospital, Edo State the following day Monday 20th, where he is being managed and is responding to treatment. The health commissioner assured Deltans that there would not be need for panic saying the situation is not beyond what the state can address.