Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has expressed the determination of his administration to ensure that every part of the state is accessible by good roads infrastructure The governor added that the state government will not lag behind in the delivery of developmental and infrastructural facilities, despite paucity of funds in the state. He spoke on Monday at different towns during the flag-off of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Agbado-Omuo road, ,Ilupeju-Ire-Igbemo-Ijan road, Oye-Ikun-Otun road and Aramoko-Erijiyan-Ikogosi road in the state. Fayemi assured that the tentacles of development will be spread across all the 133 towns and other villages, in fulfilment of the social contracts he signed with Ekiti residents. While urging the people to create enabling environment for the contractors for the timely delivery of the projects he said his administration will work hard to mobilise funds to carry out landmark projects that will add values to the socio-economic and physical well- being of the populace. “The contractors started some of these roads being re-awarded in 2013 during our first term , but could not proceed substantially  before my exit. The last administration did little work before being abandoned and that informed why we terminated the contracts and re-awarded to the original contractors. “If you check critically, all these roads are critical to the economic development of our people. The Ilupeju-Ire- Ijan road will resolve the challenge of moving the Ire Burnt Brick products from the town to other parts of the state and the country at large. “We are determined and we shall make sure that every part of the state is  accessible by good roads infrastructure,  In line with the cardinal objective  of  infrastructural and capital development of our administration . “Let me assure you that we won’t allow paucity of funds to deter us from achieving this. We have sourced for funds to solve many of our challenges. “I want the contractors to deliver in record time. But to achieve this,  I implore  our people to cooperate with the contractors to be able to deliver  timely, so that the projects can be beneficial to every Ekiti people and intending investors”, he said. Fayemi tasked Ekiti residents  to pay all relevant taxes to be able to strengthen the revenue base of the state to  facilitate delivery of  more democracy dividends to the people. The Commissioner for Works, Mr. Sola Adebayo, who warned the contractor against shoddy jobs said the roads will bring a facelift to the industrial development of the state, when completed. Adebayo urged the contractors to deploy the best equipment and modern technical expertise for the execution of the projects. He appealed to the people of Oye, Gbonyin , Ekiti East and Ekiti West local government areas  to support the government, saying no contract can be executed freely under  the atmosphere  of crisis. Lauding the government for initiating the landmark projects, the Onire of Ire Ekiti, Oba Victor Bobade, praised Fayemi for not politicising project execution in the state. “If we are to consider politics, Ire Ekiti does not worth this project , because of the way my people voted in the last governorship election. But because the Governor knew that people are suffering, he looked beyond politics. We didn’t vote for him, but he counted us worthy. My people in Ire Ekiti, next time there are elections, try and open your eyes and vote wisely”, he advised. The traditional ruler of Ilupeju  Ekiti, Oba Emmanuel Olaleye asked Governor Fayemi  to rehabilitate Ilupeju-Ayede- Isan road to fast track more development in the axis. 