Considering the weak projection of the international bodies of the Nigerian economy, industry stakeholders have called for appropriate policies and regulations for the country to be able to achieve growth in 2020. OLUSHOLA BELLO writes. There is need for appropriate policies and regulations that will contribute to the growth and development of the manufacturing, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) sector of the economy. Industry stakeholders expect economic growth to remain subdued at around two per cent by 2020 as consumer demand, as well as private sector investment, will most likely remain weak. According to them, this resonates with the position of World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that growth will hover at 2.1 per cent and 2.5 per cent respectively, which is below the population growth rate of some three per cent, implying per capita income will contract further, making more Nigerians poorer. Despite the operating business challenging environment, the economy in 2019 was able to maintain a positive growth trajectory driven by the recovery of oil price for most part of the year which gave a boost to the macroeconomic fundamentals. Nigeria remains a robust economy with a large market, abundant natural resources and a productive population. The continued recovery of the Nigerian economy, which generated a real growth of 1.81 per cent year-on-year by the end of third quarter (Q3), improvement in macroeconomic stability, border closer and signing of African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) acted as catalysts to the many activities that characterised the Nigerian industrial sector in 2019.  External Factors On Our Economy The AfCFTA as it goes into effect in the coming year would mean the dawn of new reality for the countries in the sub-region. The fundamental weaknesses in intra-African trade as well as existing regional treaties and arrangement would challenge the success of the AfCFTA. Like Nigeria, more countries might become protectionist in reaction to the outcome of the regional integration. The outlook on growth in 2020, according to stakeholders is expected to be above two per cent; inflation would trend higher in the first months of the year and decline as the year progresses. The US-China trade tension as well as the Brexit and the AfCFTA would be the major wind to watch in terms of external shocks.  Stakeholders Views The director-general of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Muda Yusuf said that “Amidst continued global slow growth and trade wars, we expect growth to be slow albeit stable in 2020 in the face of implementation of recent policy measures by the government. “We note that the Nigerian economy remains susceptible to external shocks most especially oil price fluctuations. Thus, we reiterate that government as a matter of urgency must intensify efforts in diversifying the productive base to other high-impact and growth-driving non-oil sectors like agriculture, manufacturing and services.” According to Yusuf, for Nigeria to achieve strong growth of about six to eight per cent that is needed to effectively tackle poverty and unemployment, LCCI advises economic managers and policymakers to embrace structural reforms such as deregulating the oil and gas sector; harmonising the multiple exchange windows, privatising redundant state assets, fixing infrastructural problems of poor power supply and bad roads. “These reforms will in no doubt deepen investor confidence and make the country a better destination for private investment,” the LCCI director-general stated. Analysts at Cordros Securities in their outlook for 2020, said that “The Nigerian economic recovery story looks somewhat precarious; we are early in the cycle as GDP growth continues to dawdle, inflation remains upwardly sticky, and above monetary targets, the pressure on the consumer wallet has been sustained, and corporate earnings continue to shrink. “In our view, the macro story for 2020 will be a challenging one, weighed on by elevated unemployment, insecurity challenges, power shortages, low crude prices, and a more subdued global economic backdrop. “Additionally, more upbeat private consumption, which should be supported by the “full” rollout of the minimum wage hike, is likely to be dampened by the inflationary impact of the government’s unorthodox protectionist policies at the borders, as well as electricity price hikes scheduled for mid-year. As such, we do not believe the economic backdrop provides a supportive environment for corporate fundamentals, as evidenced by revenue, earnings and cash flow declines across a myriad of industries.”  FG’s Capex Injection Nigeria’s present administration remains committed to bridging the infrastructure deficit in Nigeria. The government has prepared to reflate economic growth with an ambitious N10.6 trillion budget. The Buhari-led government earmarked N2.14 trillion for CAPEX spend in 2020 (excluding CAPEX components of statutory transfer). The President has acknowledged that investing in critical infrastructure is a crucial component of the government’s fiscal strategy in 2020. In the Agricultural sector, the LCCI noted that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) like it did in 2019, will maintain status quo by not relenting in supporting the sector with much-needed funds in ensuring that the wide gap between local demand for food and supply is bridged. LCCI said that “We also see improved credit flow to agriculture on the back of proposed increase in deposit money banks’ loan to deposit ratio to 70 per cent.” Yusuf said that “From policy perspective, we are of the view that prolonging closure of the land borders will further add impetus to agricultural output in 2020. “However, risk factors to our prognosis include; security challenges in the North-east zone, a major food producing region in the country; and resurgence in herders-farmers clash in the North-central region. Overall, we expect the sector to sustain its upward growth trajectory in 2020.” For manufacturing sector, LCCI stated that “Our prognosis for manufacturing sector is mixed. We believe manufacturing sector will continue to benefit big from CBN’s aggressive credit push to the real sector. In furtherance, we see scope that competition between foreign and local producers will fade on prolonged closure of land borders. “Also, early budget implementation for capital projects is positive for the sector. We are of the view that failure by government to fix structural constraints with regards to fixing power challenges and rehabilitating deplorable road networks, will perpetuate the poor productivity and performance of the sector.” Yusuf also noted that performance of trade sector in 2020 will be shaped by the direction of government policies. According to him, in our opinion, continued protectionist measures of government will most likely limit growth in 2020. Elsewhere, the level of the country’s engagement in Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) scheduled to kick-off July 1, 2020, will also impact the performance of trade sector. Meanwhile, the potentials for growth of the Nigerian economy is immense. But we should not remain a nation of potentials. In order to unlock these huge potentials, we need to put in place appropriate policies, regulations and institutions.  Some of these have been highlighted in this outlook. Investment is critical to the growth of any economy. This is even more so in an economy that is struggling with revenue and other resources.  Growth in private investment will boost employment, impact on revenue, promote social stability and enhance the welfare of citizens. Even more important is the promotion of economic inclusion through a right mix of fiscal, monetary and investment policies, this will create an enabling environment for domestic and foreign investors, create wealth and jobs for the country. There is also a need to deepen the consultative process between the policy makers and the private sector.