Moringa oleifera as it is popularly called, has been described as the miracle tree. This is because of its usefulness both medicinally and economically. JOSEPH CHIBUEZE reports Moringa is a fast-growing plant that is highly valued and cultivated in the tropics and sub-tropics. With its high nutritive values, every part of the tree is suitable for either nutritional or commercial purposes. The leaves of this tree are especially wonderful. Nutritionists agree that the leaves are rich in minerals, vitamins and other essential phytochemicals. Traditional medicine in several countries has used these leaves to cure a host of diseases. There has been Clinical studies that suggest that traditional medicine has been on the right track on that. Moringa leaves are also packed with essential vitamins and minerals especially vitamins A and C. Delivering such powerful nutrition, these leaves could prevent the scourge of malnutrition and related diseases. Although Moringa is not a new thing to Nigerians, not many have given it a thought to go into large scale cultivation of this all-important plant, not even the government. This administration, like the one before it has shown some seriousness in promoting agriculture as a way of creating employment and wealth, but it has however not discovered the unique potential of moringa as the secret to unlocking wealth and creating jobs. In fact, moringa is not one of the agricultural crops the government is promoting. A country like Nigeria that is in urgent need of solutions to her rising youth unemployment that has given room for all kinds of social vices, from armed robbery, kidnapping, prostitution, internet fraud, banditry to insurgency, cannot but look inwards. “I have been a lone voice in the wilderness shouting and calling government’s attention to the need for this country to promote the cultivation of moringa, but nobody has been listening, not even the government,” said Mr Michael Ashimashiga, national president Moringa Farmers and Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, who was addressing members of the press yesterday in Abuja. Ashimashiga said it is the fastest way to create employment for the youths because it is fast growing, can be planted anywhere in the country and within four months harvesting can begin and it is there for life. He said it has been projected that Nigeria could earn over N500 billion revenue annually from moringa. “But I am telling you that Nigeria has the capacity to generate three times more than the national budget from moringa alone if it is given the attention it deserves,” he said. “There is a demand to supply over 10,000 metric tonnes of moringa, Nigerian farmers cannot meet that because they are not getting the needed support. “It is shameful that Nigeria borrows money from abroad to fund her budget, we don’t need that. The money we would make from moringa can comfortably fund the budget; even crude oil cannot compete with moringa in terms of revenue generation.” He said it is just unfortunate that all efforts made to get government to support the cultivation of moringa by drawing their attention to the potential benefits of the plant in the area of job creation, raw material for the pharmaceutical companies and even as nutritious food, did not yield any good result. According to him, “The Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment is aware of what we are doing, we have gone to the Bank of Industry, we have approached Veterinary Research Institute, we have approached Raw Materials Research and Development Council, we have approached Nigerian Medicinal Plants Agency. These are all agencies of the federal government, but we got no result.” He said it was after all these efforts that the association working with Eden Group Farmers Multipurpose Cooperative Society and some foreign partners have decided to take the bull by the horn. According to him, “We have concluded plans to set up a N9 billion moringa trees plantation in all the 774 local government areas across the country, and in the first phase of the project, we are engaging 500 youths, per local government to cultivate it.” He said that over the years, the cultivation of moringa has been hampered by the high cost of setting up a farm which could be as high as N300,000 to set up just one plot, but now, Eden Group Farmers has entered into an agreement with a foreign partner that is ready to subsidise the cost of owning a farm so that every youth in Nigeria can be drawn to the cultivation of moringa. He said, “Our target is to get 10 million youths into moringa cultivation this rainy season in all the local government areas of the country. We want to end banditry by engaging the youths, an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. So we want to engage as much of these youths as possible because government has failed to provide for them. “All the person needs to do is to register with N5,000 and we give him/her a plot of land, the seedling and even set up a drying facility in the farm for the person. On his part, the person is to take care of the farm and harvest it sell to the off-takers who are waiting for the harvest. “The good thing about moringa is that it is a tree you can harvest after four months and every month thereafter, for a lifetime and after seven months, the seed is ready for harvest also.” Ashimashiga also informed that his group will insist that all those registered with it deliver the best quality. In his words, “We are also insisting that all those that will register with us deliver best quality, because we are giving you seedlings, we are giving you farms, we are giving you everything, your own is just to be taking care of the farm, harvesting and supplying to our drying processing plant. These are the things that we are putting on ground now.” Mr Anandh Reddy of Sai-Eden Moringa Production Company, the foreign partner and off-taker, said he was attracted to Nigeria because of the passion and enthusiasm shown by Mr Ashimashiga and the quality of moringa coming out of Nigeria. According to him, “We have moringa in South Africa, we have moringa in India, but that of Nigeria is something else. I got involved because we can’t just be waiting for government. Government has a lot on its table, so as individuals we have to come in. My interest is, let’s get more land to plant more trees so we can create employment for the youths. We want to plant about 10 billion trees.” He said the company is not going to export the moringa products because they want Nigerians to fully benefit from the wonders of moringa, as medicine, as food and as raw material. “We are going to set up a processing plant here to produce and create employment, we have already registered Sai-Eden Moringa Production Company, where we are going the be processing all the leaves and products from the moringa farmers in our factory to produce other products,” he said, adding that there are over 30 products that one can make out of moringa. “We want to make it purely a Nigerian product, distributed in Nigeria and of course overtime we can export. I believe that by March we would take off.” On his part, Dr Ignatius Onah, a pharmacist, nutritionist and Naturopathic doctor, said he has known moringa as a pharmacist, as a nutritionist and as a naturopathic doctor and also as a farmer. According to him, “Moringa is so important that everybody must cultivate it. Every part of moringa is very important. It is very good as food; the leaves can serve as a very good vegetable. It cures everything, you can put it in every drug. It is good for everybody and the good thing is that everybody can plant it.” He said Nigerians should stop waiting for government before undertaking any project. According to him, “It is only when you are succeeding that government will come.”