Two suspected kidnappers, who abducted father and son travelling on a motorcycle were among the 24 criminal suspects paraded by the Ogun state police command on Friday in Abeokuta, the state capital. The police also intercepted 40 bags of weed substance, suspected to be Indian hemp while on transit between Igboora in Oyo state and “Rounder” area of Abeokuta, the state capital. The state’s Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson who paraded the suspects yesterday at the command headquarters in Eleweeran, Abeokuta said 24-year old Babangida Aliyu and Bello Muhammed, 20 kidnapped their victims, Muyiwa Aremu and his son, James on the new year eve at Ijaka-Isale axis of Ayetoro, headquarters of Yewa North local government area of Ogun state. Ebrimson also said that the police recovered the sum of N52, 000, eight cows, wrap of Indian hemp and a sachet of Tramadol from the two Kebbi state born suspected kidnappers. The CP also paraded a dismissed soldier in army uniform who was identified as Babatunde Jude who was said to have recruited other hoodlums to terrorize residents if Itele -Ota in thebAdo – Ido/Ota local government area of the state. Jude, an indigene of Edo state was said to have been brutalizing and extorting members of the public. In an interview with the suspects, Jude, who said he joined the Nigeria Army in 2013 before his dismissal in 2015 said he was part of the Nigerian Army personnel that made “tactical withdrawal” into Cameroon while prosecuting the Boko Haram insurgent war. The suspect who said he was with 112 Task Force brigade before his dismissal, said when they got back to Nigeria, they were charged by the 7th Division of the Nigeria Army, for failure to perform military duty and outstanding order, which led to their dismissal. Other suspects paraded included those who vandalized the electricity cables, eight cultists as well as thise caught transporting the Indian hemp to Abeokuta. The CP however, vowed that his command would stop at nothing towards ensuring that the state is not conducive for criminals.