The African Development Bank (AfDB) has said that it would invest the sum of $250 million on water supply and sanitation in satellite towns of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Senior director of the bank, Mr Ebrima Faal, who disclosed this when he led a six-man delegation on a courtesy visit to the minister of state for the FCT, Dr Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, added that the bank would also invest in the development of Abuja Technology Village (ATV). Faal revealed that a number of studies are ongoing in various components of the integrated project including ICT, fashion and infrastructure development. He disclosed that over 20,000 hectares of land has been made available for the development of the Special Agro-industrial Processing Zones (SAPZ) for job creation and poverty reduction in the FCT, adding that the bank will work with co-financiers to achieve the objectives. “Giving the nature of the budget both in terms of water and sanitation, we are thinking of working together with the Great Climate Funds (GCF), to come in as co-financiers.” Faal commended the FCT administration for the provision of land where the corporate office of the bank was built, just as he described the gesture as a fruitful partnership. Responding, the minister assured the delegation that the administration would key into the project and any other projects that will be beneficial to the residents of the territory, while integrated farming programme in the satellite towns would be pursued vigorously by the administration. “I know that we are very keen to work with you and I have listened to you very carefully to elaborate on some of your projects. We have been working assiduously on the SAPZ, and it might interest you to know that a task team is already constituted and besides that, expression of interest is ready for submission”. “If you look at it primarily for all that you have outlined today, the most beneficial for the people of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), especially the urban areas or the satellite towns is the integrated farming programme or urban agriculture. We have strategic plans and we are ready to work with you.”  