On Tuesday 21st day of January 2020 ,the Supreme court upheld the election of governor Samuel Ortom as the dully elected governor of Benue state. HEMBADOON ORSAR, writes. The Tuesday judgement by the supreme court on the Benue State governorship election  has attracted a lot of reactions and jubilation from stakeholders and supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Exactly Ten months after the governorship election in Benue State, the legal battle which ensued between the candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Barr. Emmanuel Jime and the Peoples Democratic Party Samuel Ortom which started from the Tribunal to Appeal Court was finally put to rest on Tuesday, January 21st 2020 by the Supreme Court judgement which affirmed  the validity of the election of the incumbent governor Samuel Ortom as the substantive governor of the state. The Independent National Electoral Commission during the March 2019 governorship elections, declared the incumbent governor Samuel Ortom,  who was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party  as the winner of the gubernatorial election. Announcing the results, the state returning officer of the Benue governorship elections, Professor Sabastine Maimako explained that the PDP candidate Samuel Ortom has pulled the total votes of 434473 to beat his close opponent of the All Progressives Congress, ( APC) Barr. Emmanuel Jime who scored a total vote of 345155. According to him, the total number of registered voters stood at 2,471,894 while accredited voters were 858,947. In the election, the total number of valid votes were 830954, with a total number of 846222 as vote cast, while 15268 votes were rejected. Governor Ortom during the election  won with a clear margin of 89,318”, he stated. It would be recalled that the March 9th 2019 governorship election was declared inconclusive following a difference in margin of defeat which was 81,554 and the number of cancelled votes were 121022. After the inconclusive election was conducted, INEC declared Ortom as the winner of the election. Not satisfied with the election results the defeated candidate of the APC Barr. Jime took the governor to the tribunal where the tribunal still affirmed governor Ortom as the duly elected governor of the state. Still not satisfied, the APC candidate Barr. Emmanuel Jime sought for redress at the Court of Appeal. Following the affirmation both the APC and PDP engaged in accusation and counter accusations against each other. Recall also that the Governorship Tribunal sitting in Makurdi on Monday 7th October 2019 upheld the reelection of governor Ortom as the winner of March 2019 Governorship election, where the APC candidate Barr. Jime said, the tribunal in their own wisdom delivered judgement instead of justice, vowing to appeal the judgement. The APC candidate again approached the Appeal Court sitting in Makurdi which was later moved to Abuja for obvious reasons, where the state PDP publicity secretary said the shift in venue for the hearing of the Appeal Court from Makurdi to Abuja without any justifiable reason will be lawfully resisted by the PDP as the sponsoring platform and custodian of the hard-won victory of Gov. Samuel Ortom at the 2019 Governorship Election in Benue State. The state Publicity Secretary of the party in a statement described the movement as an attempt to subvert the course of justice. However the Appeal court in the same vein, upheld governor Ortom’s election as the duly elected governor, thereby agreeing to the judgement of the tribunal. But Barr.Jime in an interview with our correspondent, claimed that the tribunal while delivering judgement on his petition denied him justice and as such failed to give justice to the suffering Benue masses. In a swift reaction, the State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) urged the defeated All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Barr. Emmanuel Jime and his supporters to respect the sanctity of the judiciary and refrain from casting aspersions on it. The party through its Publicity Secretary, Bemgba Iortyom, urged Jime and his supporters to stop using the judgement delivered by the  tribunal  against Ortom to enrich himself. According to Iortyom, the Party read with amusement the media reports credited to Jime, regarding the recent verdict of the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal which validated the electoral victory of the Governor. “We find such utterances laughable and a mockery of the judiciary which the APC Guber candidate, as a lawyer, is a part of, even as we wonder which Benue people he was referring to.” The PDP spokesman stated that Benue people re-elected Ortom for second term in office with 434,473 votes against the APC candidate Barr. Jime who scored  345,155 votes representing a defeat margin of 89,318 votes in the first ballot. “Despite the huge defeat margin, the election was declared inconclusive by the Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) on March 9, 2019, which triggered widespread jubilation by the APC, as they boasted raucously that they were going to enjoy the advantage of federal might.” The PDP spokesman also explained that even though INEC ordered for a supplementary election, Ortom again, won, extending the defeat margin close to 100,000 votes. The PDP however described Jime’s allegations from all indications, as a ploy to achieve pecuniary gains from sponsors of his party, as well as keep his followers loyal to his perennial political ambitions. “It is evident that Jime and APC, after losing at the tribunal, have no hope at the appellate courts, Benue PDP is aware that the defeated Guber candidate and some of his loyalists, in traditional fashion, have resorted to dropping the names of some top political leaders in the country, claiming those are going to influence the outcome of their appeal. “This is reminiscent of the failed ‘federal might’ hoax, and the slogan ‘Sembangohol’ which literally means ‘we are collecting it” has become an opium of sorts to Jime/ APC supporters in the state, who against all practical hope, are being fed with the mirage by their candidate that Gov. Ortom’s victory will be overturned at the appellate courts. “The publicity secretary further urged Jime and APC to accept the unchangeable fact that Benue people clearly rejected them at the polls, in favour of Ortom and PDP, as such, the courts cannot turn down the popular will of the people. “I want Jime and the APC to be magnanimous in accepting defeat and also extend his hand of fellowship to the governor knowing well enough that he has a bad case even at the Court of Appeal.” On Tuesday January 21st, 2020, the seven-man panel led by Justice Sylvester Ngwuta in his judgement upheld the election of governor Samuel Ortom as the dully elected governor of Benue State and accordingly dismissed the petition by Jime for lack of merit. Following the affirmation of Ortom as the substantial governor of Benue State there was jubilation by the PDP supporters. Meanwhile, a PDP Chieftain in the State, Elder Peter Torjum described Ortom’s victory as affirmation of the mandate given to him by the Benue People. “Ortom’s mandate was given by the people of Benue State, so even if the APC take him to whatever Court, he will still win.” He called on the opposition, APC in the state to teem up with the governor now that the legal tussle was over for the over all interest of the State. In another reaction, a former majority leader of the Benue State House of Assembly, Elder Sylvester Atachin said the victory of Governor Ortom at the Supreme Court has further confirmed his earlier stand that the APC candidate’s legal battle was a mere academic exercise. He challenged politicians, especially the opposition APC, not to see going to court as another alternative to winning elections in the country. “Politicians should not use the court as the next alternative to win elections. They should always go to the people to seek and win their mandate. Going to court always is not helping this country. I advise politicians to emulate former President Jonathan when he lost in 2015,” Elder Atachin said. Also reacting, the governorship candidate of the All progressives Congress Barr. Emmanuel Jime, said the Supreme Court ruled on a petition they brought before it challenging earlier rulings on the outcome of the 2019 governorship elections in Benue State even though the court’s decision unfortunately did not go in their favour, it has formally brought to a close the legal quest on the matter. “Sad as the Supreme Court judgment is to me, our party, and teeming supporters, we accept the verdict in good faith, and take its implications in our stride. “When we decided  to file a petition at the elections petition tribunal last year, it was not out of a need to pursue power or take advantage of the judicial process for the sake of it. We took this route all the way to the Supreme Court as part of  our commitment towards strenthening the integrity of our electoral process. “It was and remains our firm belief that unless the sanctity of the ballot is guaranteed, self serving politicians will continue to game the system to retain their clutch on power.” The defeated APC  governorship candidate also commended the party’s legal team for their dogged fight and presented a good case with solid evidence. “The outcome might not have gone our way but it shows we will never look the other way where we see cases of electoral malpractice. I remain eternally grateful for the efforts of our lawyers and witnesses.” While extending his appreciation to the Justices of the Supreme Court, who inspite of a back-breaking workload, gave the petition the thorough attention it deserved, the outcome notwithstanding, they remained highly respectful of their verdict. Barr Jime  also extended his gratitude to all the party faithful and supporters, including the leader of the party in the state. He appealed to them not to despair over news of today’s verdict. “Taunts, jeers and intimidation will come, but lets not buckle under them but see them as part of the sacrifice we need to make for a better tomorrow.” Jime also informed his supporters and the people of the state that the verdict announced by the Supreme Court today signals an end to our inquest on the 2019 governorship elections in Benue State, adding that it did not mean they would take their eyes off governance issues as they affect people of Benue. Also reacting the Benue State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under the leadership of State Chairman, John Ngbede, congratulated the state governor, Samuel Ortom, over his victory at the Supreme Court earlier yesterday. A statement by the PDP publicity secretary Bemgba Iortyom said the party is  delighted by this development which the party believes has opened a new vista for the Ortom administration to accelerate on its drive to move the state forward in terms of peace, security and development. Ngbede called on the opposition in the state to accept the verdict of the apex court as the closing of one chapter and embrace the necessary need to open another for the ultimate good of Benue State. While congratulating all party faithful whom he credited  Ortom’s  victory to at the Supreme Court, the chairman expressed a deep sense of pride at what he described as unwavering support given to the party by its supporters all through the campaigns and elections, and through the litigation process. According to him, PDP believes that going forward, a new Benue is possible with the support of the people for the administration of His Excellency, Governor Samuel Ortom. In his words the erstwhile Commissioner of Police Lagos State Command Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, urged  the Governor to work towards leaving some legacies by embarking on people oriented projects and attend to issues of welfare of the people of the state. Tsav, in a press statement shortly after the Supreme Court decision, said the confirmation of  Ortom’s election by the Supreme Court is how God wants it and there is nothing anyone can do. The former Lagos Police boss congratulated Jime and his team for giving  Ortom a good fight in his quest to reclaim his snatched mandate. “I hoped Governor Ortom will use this period as reformatory and corrective by using the remaining three years of his administration to correct his past mistakes which are monumental and disgusting.” “The governor should pay all owed salaries and pension arrears to reduce the suffering of our people. He should try to leave a legacy by embarking on people oriented projects, repair of our immotorable roads in the State and the construction of new ones to link our towns and villages, like our neighbour Nasarawa State. “He should pay lesser attention to his farm and private businesses in the interest of  good governance to our people and humanity. “Governor Samuel Ortom has been a monumental failure  but we can not fight against what God has decreed” Tsav stated. Also reacting, the Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Benue State chapter,  Rev. Akpen Leva, who led other members of the association to congratulate the governor on his victory at the Supreme Court, advised him to be magnanimous with victory urging him to embrace everybody with useful ideas that can move the state forward.