The federal government has reaffirmed its commitment to creating an enabling environment that would attract more investment opportunities into the country. The permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr Nasir Sani-Gwarzo gave the assurance when playing host to a delegation from the West Africa Trade and Investment Hub (WATIH) led by the director-general, Mr Michael Clements in his Office in Abuja. Dr Gwarzo assured the delegation of government’s commitment to creating an enabling environment for them to expand their horizons in order to accommodate other sectors of the economy. The permanent secretary, who suggested that the project should not only be limited to the seven pilot states of the federation, noted that there should be a geographical spread while emphasis should not only be on agriculture sector but other vital sectors of the economy as well. He said: “l know what the United States Agency for International  Development (USAID) can do to add value in Nigeria by supporting President Muhammadu Buhari’s agenda of lifting 100 million people out of poverty through job creation in the country.” He also said that his ministry will do everything possible to support West Africa Trade and Investment Hub to succeed in Nigeria, stressing that, “The country needs to be moved forward as a whole. Once you leave segment of the society, sector or any population, you will still come back to the same problem because we keep having vulnerable people.” Earlier in his address, the director- general of WATIH, Mr Michael Clements explained that WATI Hub which is a programme funded under the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) was set up in September 2019 with the primary objective of investing about $90 million in which $60 million had already been released for investment into the Nigerian economy, with a view to creating 40,000 jobs in the private sector, out of which 50 per cent was reserved solely for women to invest in waste management industry. He said the Trade and Investment Hub would be working in seven states in Nigeria which included  Benue, Cross River,  Delta, Kaduna, Ebonyi, Kebbi  as well as Niger states  to increase  production of value chain in maize,  coffee, soya bean, cowpea ,rice and fish farming  through co- investment  efforts with private sector  to earn  export revenue for Nigerian products. He explained that the Trade Hub activities was willing to improve companies’ abilities to expand business operations, increase productivity as well as create new jobs in Nigeria, Senegal, Cote d’ voire and the Sahel region. He said it would focus on co-investment partnerships that will increase Agricultural productivity and profitability to small scale farmers and promote West Africa’s regional and International trade.