Orisakunle Abiodun (21) and Opadokun Olayinka (29) were sentenced to death by hanging for the murder of one Adeoye Matthew. In his judgement, Justice Jide Falola of Osun State High Court in the Ikirun Judicial Division said the prosecutor has established his case and proved it beyond reasonable doubt. He therefore convicted the duo of Orisakunle Abiodun and Opadokun Olayinka but discharged and acquitted Femi Aroyehun on two count charges preferred against him. The convicts who were docked on the 22nd January, 2018 on a two count charge of conspiracy to murder and murder pleaded not guilty when arraigned. The prosecution Counsel from Ministry of Justice Barrister Philips Afolayan stated that the offence of conspiracy to commit murder was contrary to and punishable under Section 324 of the Criminal Code Law, Cap. 34, Vol. 2, Laws of Osun State, while the Murder charge was contrary to Section 316 (1) and punishable under Section 319 (1) of the same Criminal Code Law of Osun State. During the hearing of the case, Barrister Philips Afolayan called three witnesses, Oladipupo Damilare, Sgt Aina Clement and Sgt Josephine Erokpo to establish his case. It was revealed during hearing that the deceased, Adeoye Matthew was returning from work alongside his friend, Oladipupo Damilare, on 9th March, 2017 along Babjo Secondary School road, Idi- Iroko Area, Ikirun when he was attacked. Nearby residents reported the attack to the police who came to the scene and evacuated the victim to Araromi Hospital, Ikirun where he later died on the same day. Barrister Afolayan also tendered the extra-judicial statements of the nominal complainants as well as those of the three accused persons in evidence. The then accused persons entered their defence and each gave evidence for himself without calling any witness. Before judgement was delivered, Counsel to the convicts Mr. L. S. Bello, pleaded that Court should temper justice with mercy. Justice Falola consequently sentenced the duo of Orisakunle Abiodun and Opadokun Olayinka to five years imprisonment for Conspiracy to murder and death by hanging for murder while Femi Aroyehun was acquitted.