***Hails Release Of Aid Workers The United Nations (UN) Humanitarian Coordinator In Nigeria, Mr. Edward Kallon has expressed worry over increasing insecurity on highways through which humanitarian workers are providing urgent and vital assistance to victims of Boko Haram crisis in the northeast. Kallon however said the UN is relieved over the release of five aid workers that were abducted by the Boko Haram terrorists on the 22nd of December 2019. Recall that on December 22nd last year, a convoy of humanitarian workers were attacked while traveling between Monguno, a town in northern Borno, and Maiduguri the state capital.
Some persons including security personnel were killed while five aid workers were taken away.
The abducted persons were earlier reported to be staffers of ALIMA, an international NGO, Solidarity International. Detail of how they were released was sketchy but it was confirmed that ALIMA, whose two staffers were among the kidnapped, pushed for the negotiation process that saved the lives of the five. Mr. Kalon said only three of the five abductees were humanitarians. But the release of all five gave him relief. ” The whole humanitarian community in Nigeria shares the joy of the families, friends and colleagues of these aid workers, who can now put to rest the unimaginable anxiety of missing their loved ones. ” These dedicated humanitarians were working to provide life-saving support to millions of Nigeria’s most vulnerable in north-eastern Borno State. They should never have been a target or have to endure the trauma of being held captive. “Despite this encouraging news, I am concerned about the fate of the other civilians abducted in this incident. I also remain gravely concerned for the lives of our ACF colleague Grace Taku, abducted near Damasak in July 2019, and Alice Loksha, a nurse and a mother, abducted during an attack in Rann in March 2018. Both are still held captive by non-state armed groups. “The United Nations and its humanitarian partners call for their immediate and safe release. “I am extremely worried by the increasingly insecure environment that humanitarians are working in to provide urgent and vital assistance to civilians affected by the crisis. The humanitarian community is troubled by the increased trend in vehicular checkpoints set up by non-state armed groups along main supply routes in the states of Borno and Yobe. ” These checkpoints expose civilians and humanitarians to heightened risks of being killed or abducted. I urge all parties to the conflict to protect the civilian population, including aid workers, from such grave violations of international laws, especially women and children who are among the most vulnerable and are caught up in the violence Kallon said. A total of twelve aid workers have lost their lives in 2019. ” This is twice more than in 2018, which we thought was amongst the most dangerous years for humanitarian actors in Nigeria. Aid workers and the assistance they provide to the most vulnerable populations make the difference between life and death for entire communities in crisis-affected Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. ” Their security is paramount and I call on all parties to assure the safety of aid workers and the unimpeded delivery of humanitarian aid,” Kallon said.