The domestic equities market closed last week trading in green amid sustained bargain hunting activity with capital market analysts stating that the equities market ended last week on a winning streak. The week, performance was mixed as gains were recorded on three of five trading days, as the All-Share Index gained 10.32 points or 0.03 per cent Week-on-Week (W-o-W) to close at 29,628.84 points. Similarly, investors gained N5 billion as market capitalisation advanced to N15.262 trillion. Performance in the sectors was mixed as the Industrial Goods index gained the most with 5.1 per cent owing to price appreciation in Lafarge Africa. Trailing, the Insurance and Oil & Gas indices advanced 3.0 per cent and 2.5 per cent respectively following buying interest in Wapic Insurance, Cutix and Seplat Petroleum Development Company (SEPLAT). Conversely, the Consumer Goods and Banking indices lost 3.6 per cent and 2.6 per cent respectively, following sell-offs in Champion Breweries, Nestlé Nigeria, Unity Bank and Access Bank. Overall, a total turnover of 1.237 billion shares worth N22.762 billion in 21,156 deals were traded last week by investors on the floor of the Exchange, in contrast to a total of 2.087 billion shares valued at N26.470 billion that exchanged hands previous week in 24,262 deals. In the new week, analysts at Cowry Asset Management expected the local bourse to close in green territory as lower fixed income yield environment is sustained despite the increase in CRR to 27.50 per cent by CBN to reduce Deposit Money Banks liquidity. Hence, investors are advised to continue to hunt for high dividend yielding stocks. Also, APT Securities and Funds Limited said that “As members of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Monetary Policy Committee vote to retain the policy stance, we expect activities in the market to remain encouraging with one or two corrections days this trading week; not enough to cause a panic sentiment. “It will be notable to point out that regardless of the mixed economic outlook, many stocks are set to soar into the earnings reporting season as market reaction to the fourth quarter 2019 economic recovery is expected to impact positively on corporate books. It will be advisable to accumulate in tranches fundamentally justifiable liquid stocks and position for dividend paying stocks.”