As a way to end the year 2019, the Anioma Association, Glasgow (AAG) rolled out the drums to celebrate amongst themselves and their guests, displaying their rich cultural heritage. AAG is an umbrella body of Anioma indegenes from Delta State in Nigeria who are residents in Glasgow, United Kingdom. The body was formed in 2018 to foster love and unity amongst their members and the host community. The event which formed their end of their year party attracted guests from across the globe, including Nigerians, other Africans and whites cutting across the European countries Among dignatories who graced the occasion were famous Nollywood actor, model and entrepreneur, Uche Odoputa who took out time to celebrate with members of (AAG). Others were: His Royal Highness (HRH) Eze Chukwuemeka Ogbu (Ezekwesiri 1) Ezeigbo in Glasgow, Dr Uche Nwachukwu, Ugwumba of Mbaise in Imo State, etc. Speaking at the occasion, President of AAG, Mr Jude Somawina Ugbah thanked all the participants for gracing the occasion. Explaining the rationale behind the association, Mr Ugbah said “today is our Anioma Association Glasgow end of the year party and we welcome everyone here today. The meaning of Anioma in Igbo is good land or beautiful land. Anioma people are the indigenous Igbo people of Delta State Nigeria. We are known for hard work our major occupation is farming and weaving of a special fabric peculiar to the people and known as “akwa ocha” On why the association was formed, Ugbah an Ubulu Uku born prince added “we formed this great association last year to promote our traditional culture especially among the youths, provide support to the members and the needy here in Scotland and Nigeria in general”. According to the President, the association also foster unity among the people, adding that, so far, they we have achieved some of these objectives with the cooperation of its teeming members. Expressing her joy, a member of the association and head of welfare, Maureen Joseph said that the party was very successful. Maureen said “the end of year party was mind blowing and colourful. We did a great job in showcasing our lovely Anioma heritage here in Glasgow. I appreciate the cooperation by all the members” Highpoints of the event was the cutting of the cake, raffle draw and games. These activities were equally followed by display of Anioma cultural dance and an expose of the beautiful “akwa ocha” fashion fabric to the guests. Assorted foods and drinks were equally served to the delight of the audience.