A Delta state based man, Anthony Okoli has confessed how he allegedly used the phone number previously used by President Muhammdu Buhari’s daughter, Hanan to perpetuate fraud. Okoli, who was reportedly arrested and detained by the Department of State Services for 10 weeks, confessed in the investigation statement sighted by LEADERSHIP that when he discovered the identity of the former owner of the MTN line, he colluded with boys, who could speak Hausa fluently to extort money from friends and well-wishers of Hanan. According to the documents, Okoli and his cohorts, scammed some of Hanan associates, who had no idea she was no longer using the line and with the help of the Hausa speaking boys, their activities went on smoothly. However, luck ran out of Okoli and his cohorts when a man, (name withheld), decided to report the issue to the DSS after the suspects had tried to make funny demands from him in behalf of Hanan. Okoli, who allegedly confessed to the crimes, admitted that the traffic and personalities calling the line at the initial after he purchased the line, actually made him to commit the crime and pleaded for forgiveness. Recall that last week, news broke that Okolie, was illegally detained by the DSS for 10 weeks for purchasing and using an MTN SIM card previously used and abandoned by Hanan. The telephone number was said to have been recycled and put up for sale by the popular telecommunications network provider. Omoyele Sowore, who revealed the story, had said, “A Nigerian, Anthony Okolie, was detained for 10 weeks by the DSS for using an MTN phone line previously used and abandoned by President Buhari’s daughter, Hanan.” While narrating his own side of the story, Okoli has said he bought the line in December 2018, from the roadside and I was issued a receipt and registered the SIM with his biometric data. He further explained that when he was arrested was being taken away, the DSS operatives he asked them to tell him what offence he had committed, but they did not say anything. They asked me to keep quiet. Then they took me to their office in Asaba. After a while, they said his arrest was ordered by the Presidency and he had to be taken to Abuja for questioning. The next day, they took him to Abuja by road. He also stated that he noticed that when he bought the line, he used to receive a lot of phone calls from people who spoke in Hausa language and he kept telling them they were calling a wrong number. On some occasions, he received strange messages in Hausa on WhatsApp. He received family messages, too, but he never used such to impersonate anyone.