Disturbed by the renewed attacks and killings by bandits, insurgents and other criminal elements across Nigeria, the Senate has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to declare a state of emergency on the security sector. The Upper Legislative Chamber said that the escalation of violence in various parts of the country had shown that the security system had almost collapsed and asked the president to sack all the service chiefs. The service chiefs were appointed on July 2015 by the president in the days of his first term but the senators insisted yesterday they had overstayed their welcome. The lawmakers also summoned the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to appear before them on the present precarious security situation and the proposed state police. When he appears before the Senate, the IGP will brief the Red Chamber on the workability of the much-advertised community policing. At the plenary, which the Senate devoted to the insecurity in the country, it resolved that the only way out of the current problem was for the president to declare a state of emergency on the security challenges and also fire the service chiefs. The resolutions were based on a motion sponsored by the Senate leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, and co-sponsored by all the senators present at the session. After listening to the presentation, the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, urged the lawmakers to avoid partisanship in their contributions. Lawan said that they should always remember that what they are discussing is Nigeria, adding that when bandits and terrorists want to kill, they don‘t ask people of their political party. In his lead debate, Senator Abdullahi said that the recent upsurge in security-related challenges and the devastating loss of life and property should be looked at. Abdullahi, in the motion tagged: „Nigeria Security Challenges: Urgent need to restructure, review and reorganise the current security architecture,“ urged Buhari to declare a national security emergency. Thereafter, the Senate set up a 17-man ad-hoc committee headed by Abdullahi to engage the security agencies on the matter and report back to the Upper House within two weeks. The members of the committee are the Senate minority leader, Eyinnaya Abaribe, Senate deputy chief whip, Sabi Abdullahi, Ali Ndume, Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, and Haliru Dauda Jika. Others are Bala Ibn Na‘Allah, George Thomson Sekibo, Ibrahim Gobir, Suleiman Kwari, Kabiru Gaya,  and Abba Moro. The lawmakers’ assignment include engaging the national security adviser (NSA) on the implementation modalities of the December 2019 national security strategies; liaise with the national security institutions to discuss their operational structures, funding, equipment and staff disposition with a view to reviewing the country’s security architecture to make it more responsive in tackling the myriad security challenges; and to produce a draft implementation modality/blueprint on the ways and means of addressing the current security situation for consideration by the Senate. On the invitation of the IGP, the Senate said that he would brief it on how community policing would work at its session on Wednesday, 5th February, 2020. During the debate, Senator Abdullahi had said that “the comprehensive new national security strategy that the government unfolded in December, with very clear statement of goals, objectives and challenges that faced the country particularly with the recent upsurge in attacks, have a direct and devastating impact on the life and safety of the people.” He said that terrorism and violent extremism, banditry, kidnapping, militancy and separatist agitation, pastoralist/farmer clashes and cattle rustling, organised crimes, piracy and sea robbery, cross border crimes of smuggling and illegal drugs and fire arms trafficking were serious issues that they must tackle. “Further note that the various local, state and regional responses to these security challenges by way of self-help initiative such as Civilian JTF, Hisbah, Yausakai, Yanbanga and more recently Amotekun are mainly out of desperation and disappointment with the failure of the state security architecture to protect them,“ Abdullahi said. Senator Abaribe who spoke after Abdullahi, declared that the surprise expressed by President Buhari on worsening security situation, also shocked him. He said: “those who live by propaganda will die by propaganda,“ adding that the comment by the military that Boko Haram had been defeated suppressed the hard work that was supposed to be done to secure Nigeria. Abaribe said that excuses for non-performance was staring the service chiefs in the face, stressing that the recent killings in Niger and Plateau States by bandits and the murder of some Nigerians by Boko Haram terrorists was a cause for concern. He said: “We will go to the government and asked the government to resign“ as he insisted that Nigerians did not elect the chief of staff, the IG, and the service chief ”. In his contribution, Senator Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa West) said that there was no doubt that there were security challenges. He stated that anyone that says otherwise was pretending. “We will be doing more harm than good if we talk about campaign pronouncement,“ Abdullahi said, stressing that if the security agencies do not get Nigerians to the promised land, the citizens should find out what happened.” The deputy senate president, Senaor Ovie Omo-Agege, who kicked against state police, admitted that the security architecture was overstretched and not effective. He said that several security contraptions all over the country would not help, adding that even though he appreciated the legislative work done already on state police, he expressed worries that if state police was created, the challenges of the Nigeria Police would be compounded. Senator Adamu Aliero (Kebbi) said that for Nigeria to have state police, some relevant sections of the constitution must be amended by the National Assembly. On banditry and kidnapping for ransom, Aliero said that every sim card was registered and urged the state government to buy tracking devices for the police to do their work. Senator George Thompson Sekibo (Rivers) said that his heart was bleeding because of the insecurity ravaging the country and urged the lawmakers to implement the security report of the last Senate chaired by Ahmad Lawan. Senator Sabi Ya‘u (Zamfara) said that Boko Haram in the Northeast, banditry and cattle rustling in the Northwest and North Central as well as kidnapping everywhere were a cause for concern. He asked that roles be given to traditional rulers to end the menace. Senator Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central) said that every state should have its own police alongside the federal police. Yusuf Abubakar Yusuf (Taraba) said that the present insecurity was the failure of the political class. He questioned the rationale behind the reason police was carved out of the ministry of internal affairs to create the ministry of police affairs. On the call for the sack of the service chief, Betty Apiafi (Rivers West) asserted that their tenure had expired, alleging that they were occupying their offices illegally. Senators Danjuma Goje (Gombe Central), Gabriel Suswam (Benue) and Adamu Aliero, rejected the state police proposal. Senators Aisha Dahiru Ahmed (Adamawa Central) and Mohammed Bukachuwa (Bauchi North) called for the use of technology to tackle insecurity. Senator Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba) lamented that when insurgency started, Nigeria treated it with kidgloves and expressed support for Amotekun because every region ought to have a security outfit to protect its people. Senator Ibrahim Shakaraui (Kano Central) who supported state police said they established community policing and it work in Kano. Senator Lawan, who ended the debate, said that they should pray their resolutions were adopted by the executive. He said even though the Senate must not shy away from what affect Nigerians, they must work with the executive arm of government. “The president has been working very hard with the service chiefs to make the security situation better. We have passed the resolutions and the ad-hoc committee members must finish their work in two weeks, ” Lawan said, adding that the third stage for the committee is to ensure the implementation of their resolutions.