The minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah has called on the chairmen of Mineral Resources and Environmental Management Committee (MIREMCO) to effectively work towards building a synergy between federal, state and local governments for rapid and sustainable development of mineral Resources in the country. He said this has become imperative in order to generate more revenue for the government, ensure job creation and national growth. Speaking at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) for MIREMCO chairmen held on 28th January, 2020 in Abuja, he said the forum was timely as it x-rayed the mineral development quagmire between the States and Ministry. In a statement signed for the ministry’s director, press and public relations, Mr Edwin Okpara, the minister decried the drastic decline in revenues generated from the sector and expressed optimism that the forum would yield meaningful contributions and chart a way forward for resolving resource conflicts across the three tiers of government for economic growth. Ogah urged the Committee to build a formidable platform of 36 or 37 members, which should be responsible for resolving issues affecting mineral development to  ensure economic and national growth. He appreciated them for making out time from their busy schedules to attend the meeting and look forward to deliverables that will move the ministry forward. In his contribution, the permanent secretary of the Ministry, Mr Edet Sunday Akpan, commended the efforts of the committee in developing the sector and assured the group that their work as chairmen will be given very serious attention. He said the problems confronting them, especially logistics and other funding issues that should facilitate their operations would be properly addressed, adding that the ministry is ready to involve them in its planned elaborate sensitisation programme that cuts across all the states, and meant to inform the stakeholders on the need to obey the Mining Acts. He expressed government’s willingness to work with them in order to increase government revenue needed to tackle problems existing in the sector, urging them to work closely with Federal Mining Officers to realise more revenue for the Ministry. Mr Akpan harped on the need for Committee to consider acquiring a Placing Laboratory Equipment to know the exact value of minerals in the country, adding that government would look into it, since it will add value to the business of the sector. He also urged them to form clusters for mining activities to enable them seek funds from the Bank of Industry (BOI). The immediate past director, Mines Environmental Compliance (MEC), Engineer Sallim Salaam, assured the group that the ministry will resolve perceived agitations between the MIREMCO chairmen and the Mining Officers, adding that there is an ongoing process to review the operational guidelines for their work. He disclosed that consultants will soon approach them to garner their inputs into the plan. The Committee members, unanimously affirmed their inputs towards enhancing mining activities, which include resolving issues between the host mining communities and Miners, among others. The group, however, highlighted some of the challenges facing their tasks such as funds, operational vehicles, lack of cooperation, and solicited for the Ministry to adequately look into them in order to facilitate their jobs.