Many migrant workers are stranded in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states and continue to suffer horrendous work conditions due to lack of information on the Kafala system before arriving in the region. Some migrant workers, also desperate to earn money, remain and suffer in silence. More worrisome is that even though many still plan to migrate to the Gulf region in the coming years in search of jobs, not everyone who says this has made preparations, such as having proper knowledge of where they are migrating to and its system, especially the Kafala system, which regulates the employment of foreign workers in these countries. The GCC comprises United Arab Emirates (UAE), Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. In recent years, Nigeria has seen a sharp increase in the number of citizens migrating to the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states in search of the proverbial greener pasture. Among ECOWAS countries, Nigeria is estimated to be the largest sending country of migrants to the GCC member states, primarily Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Yet, potential migrants, many of whom are unskilled and have poor knowledge of the Kafala system are exploited by dubious recruitment agencies who feed them with false information, thereby making them vulnerable to exploitation and abuses in their course of taking up employment and during actual work in the GCC states. But even more worrisome is that African governments have entered into Bilateral Labour Migration Agreements (BLMAs) that have very weak protections for their nationals and also perpetuate and sustain these abuses. “The kafala sponsorship system that ties migrant workers to individual sponsors for visa and employment continues to perpetuate and exacerbate slavery and slavery-like practices in the GCC states. Very limited information and knowledge on how to process and organise safe labour migration on the part of the potential labour migrants have also been observed. “In most cases, the level of desperation blurs the space and time for information and knowledge seeking and analysis, thus affecting the quality of decisions made,” the Organisation of the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC–Africa) the umbrella body of all Trade Unions in Africa, said in a research it conducted in 2018. A labour migrant can only come into the Gulf States through a kafeel (sponsor) because the region operates the Kafala system. The system has however been strongly criticised by trade unions and stakeholders in labour migration governance as the root cause of exploitation and abuses of migrant workers’ rights. Under the system, a local citizen or local company (the kafeel) must sponsor foreign workers in order for their work visas and residency to be valid. This means that an individual’s right to work and legal presence is dependent on his or her employer. “There are instances, as some compiled cases show, of African migrants that were not lucky to get out in a piece, but returned home in coffins,” the ITUC-Africa report revealed further. African trade unions campaigning against improved rights for migrant workers have always targeted the Kafala system because it encourages exploitation. “Even when they are underpaid, the Kafala system makes it difficult for migrants to change employers without the permission of their current employer/sponsor. As a result, migrant workers often have no choice but to endure poor working conditions, including underpayment, nonpayment, excessive working hours, or other unsafe and abusive conditions. “If the kafeels (sponsors) are unwilling to let them go, workers cannot leave them for better employment. In fact, workers can even be victims of blackmail by kafeels: if they protest or question their terms of employment, the kafeels can have them deported. Being in a precarious situation forces them to accept whatever terms and conditions are given to them,” Samson Uchenna who has done extensive research on the Kafala system said. “Labour migration creates jobs, but it can and should be decent jobs and made to produce win-win situations for everyone if African governments commit to doing the right things and the kafala system is dismantled as being done by Qatar,” Deputy General Secretary of ITUC-Africa, Comrade Akhator Joel Odigie said. It would be recalled that following sustained campaigns by African trade unions, ILO and other stakeholders in migration governance, Qatar last October announced sweeping reforms to its labour market, with a view to ending the kafala system and marking a momentous step forward in upholding the rights of migrant workers. The Council of Ministers of the State of Qatar unanimously endorsed new legislation allowing workers to change employers freely. Workers in Qatar had previously required a no-objection certificate (NOC) from their employer in order to do so. A Ministerial Decree by the Minister of Interior was also signed, removing exit permit requirements for all workers, except military personnel. Together, these steps mark the end of kafala in the country. The elimination of the NOC requirement will allow workers to freely change employers following an initial probationary period. Should they wish to change employers during this period, the new employer would need to reimburse recruitment costs to the original employer. “Qatar is changing commendably and genuinely. The new tranche of laws will bring an end to kafala and put in place a modern industrial relations system. We recognize that a new evidence-based minimum wage rate will ensure dignity for migrant workers. We urge the government to announce this as quickly as possible. The partnership between the Qatar Government and the ILO, supported by the ITUC, is working to change lives,” said Sharan Burrow, General Secretary of the International Trade Union Confederation. Comrade Akhator Joel Odigie described the Qatar revocation of exit permit and the removal of any encumbrances for the enjoyment of full rights by labour migrants as “another victory” for the African Trade Unions who have been leading campaigns for the protection of African labour migrants through reform of the kafala system Trade unions in Africa blame some of the challenges faced by the African migrants in the GCC to failure on the part of their governments to protect them. “Aside from the kafala sponsorship system operated by the GCC states and other Middle East countries, African governments’ entering into Bilateral Labour Migration Agreements (BLMAs) that have very weak protections for their nationals also create, perpetuate and sustain these abuses,” Comrade Joel Odigie said. Comrade Odigie lamented that “African labour migrants to the GCC states are suffering horrendous, slavery-like human and labour rights abuses such as beating and verbal insults; starvation; excessive working hours and working for multiple persons and places but earning just one wage (particular for domestic workers); delayed, underpaid and unpaid wages; lack of rest and family time (phones are seized and migrants not able to communicate with their families back home); sexual harassment; poor medical attention when in the GCC states; torture and deaths. These abuses are high and growing in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). There are also growing cases of African labour migrants being subjected to forced labour and human trafficking in Oman and Iraq. “To this end, therefore, African Trade Unions are tasking leaders within the continent to show more commitment in the task of promoting fair recruitment, prevention of exploitation and human trafficking and also the better defence and protection of human and labour rights of migrant workers. “For potential African labour migrants, they are advised to be conscious of their work environment and be sure that their family members have full information of the nature of the work they are going to take up; ensure that they use accredited and reliable recruitment agencies; have information and contact of their employer in the GCC and share same with their families; familiarize themselves with the terms and conditions of their contract and to recall same to their employers when they arrive in the city and place of their employment. It is very important that potential labour migrants avoid clandestine recruitment arrangements as these may make them vulnerable to human traffickers and to exploitative recruiters. “Also, we encourage African governments to take the urgent and necessary steps to renegotiate existing BLMAs so as to insert better human and labour rights protection provisions and to devise a continental labour migration governance arrangement similar to the Colombo Process as being used by the Asians. “It is also critical that African governments consider embassy presence in destination countries and to staff them with trained and compassionate labour attaché. Where it is impossible to have embassy presence, African states can enter into partnership understanding between and amongst themselves to have one Embassy assist in handling African labour migrants’ cases and to do referrals where necessary. Potential labour migrants are advised to seek out these embassies and use them effectively. “What is also critical for African governments is that recruitment processes are made fair. This means conscious efforts are to taken to remove exploitation, exploitative and criminal activities away from recruitment. It also means that potential migrants have sufficient and necessary information before, during and after departure. Governments must do more to regulate the activities of recruitment agencies. These days, travel and tour agencies camouflage and operate as recruitment agencies. Further, fair recruitment also means migrants do not bear fees and charges when being recruited. Of course, we believe and urge our governments to invest more in skills and human development by scaling up social spending,” Comrade Odigie opined.