ACHOR ABIMAJE in this report writes on the negative implication of the Jos cold weather and how residents are able to ward it off. Residents of Jos, the Plateau State capital have continued to express their fear for the cold, dry harmattan weather in the Tin city and it’s environs. The coldest month in Jos is recorded as the month of January  (with the lowest average temperature) of 6.9 degree Celsius. One unique feature of Jos cold is that the weather is unpredictable and a couple of weeks down the line, the weather will easily change giving rise to a different lifestyle. The degree of its intensity varies from one local government to another but more pronounced in the  state capital, Jos. The cold weather at times could be likened to winter; this gives credence to why the state capital, Jos, right from the colonial times has been a delight for tourists, expatriates and missionaries from other parts of the world that share similar weather. This season of the year, spanning late early December was cold, with it getting more severe in the month of January  of every year. However, many residents of Jos believe that the negative effects  of cold far outweigh its benefits on human life. It is often more felt in Jos North, Jos South, Jos East, Riyom, Barakin-Ladi Bassa and Pankshin than any other council areas in the state. Indeed, since the harmattan weather is erratic, bordering between harmattan and winter, from all indications it affects the lifestyle of its residents. The lifestyle in general to include social life, health, business and mode of dressing changes. Looking at dressing, it has become a norm during this season that most do not observe conventional dressing codes. People dress in different, funny, weird ways all to keep warm and protect themselves from cold. Traders, tricycle operators, hawkers, including civil servants among others often dress in outlandish ways bordering on the comic. Some people have resorted to wearing empty cartons while others opt for wearing layers of clothing from about three to four to protect themselves. On a lighter note, some residents could be mistaken for masquerades during this period. In terms of food, some residents now go out with exotic hot drinks, flasks containing hot water for making quick coffee. It does not stop there as others go along with ointments and petroleum jelly which they apply on their lips and hands to tackle the dryness that comes with the season. While quite a lot of people detest the weather, other categories of people like businessmen and women and traders who deal in clothing materials, such as second- hand clothes, jackets and sweaters, hand gloves, blankets, winter jackets, panty hose, turtleneck clothes smile to bank because of huge patronage as a result of the weather. Cigarette sellers make more sales during the Harmattan period as most smokers would want to patronise them using the cigarettes to ward off the chilling dry cold. Also Akara and local porridge called ‘Akamu’, Kwunu Acah sellers are making brisk business as Jos residents would want to take the hot porridge and Akara to keep warm. Those selling tea and bread by the roadsides and other open places like motor parks are not left out of the brisk business. They enjoy more patronage at this period than any other time as many of them wish that this period should quickly come. For Jerry from Michika who has a tea shop in Dadin  Kowa  in Jos South Local Government Area of the state while speaking with LEADERSHIP Sunday  said that customers often throng his shop more during this season because of harmattan, adding that many of the customers simply want to get warm, hence they settle for hot tea and bread at any time of the day. Also a Maishayi  known as Balarabe declared that “business is good and booming. Since this harmattan started more than a month ago, my stand has witnessed more customers than before. Though the harmattan is quite disturbing, yet I am satisfied, I make money more now than before,” he said. Similarly LEADERSHIPSunday who  visited both Bukuru and Katako markets where second hand clothings are sold, most of the traders have changed to the sale of jackets and sweaters and other materials that could ward off the cold weather. Buyers in their number had on this day thronged the markets to pick their choice. One of the traders disclosed  that the markets are always a beehive of activities in the morning when people are going to their places of work, and in the evening while returning adding that quite a number of the traders had switched to the sale of winter jackets and other thick clothing during this period because they are in high demand. According to a second hand cloth seller popularly known as GWONJO Isah, when asked of the class of people who patronise him said: “You can see for yourself, different categories of people patronise us. Most of those cars parked outside (pointing to a row of cars) belong to our customers. “Moreover, how many people can afford the clothes displayed in boutiques? In a day, I open two bails of winter jackets and sell most of them.” According to him, “most of those you see here did not just come to buy for themselves alone, they are buying for their children in schools as well to protect and keep them warm from cold,” adding that “it is better to prevent the cold than to fall prey to pneumonia.” However, nightlife has also reduced drastically, as most of the open joints where civil servants, artisans and others cluster to socialize at the end of work every day are not fully patronised while the few who still come around don’t stay beyond 9:00 pm. The only joint that witnesses huge patronage is spirit joints or Ogogoro. West of Mines, Polo Roundabout and other rendezvous within the state capital are presently deserted. Joe Maina  who  operates a joint in Press centre NUJ Secretariat told LEADERSHIP Sunday that his outlet which normally closes for business around 1:30 am now closes by 10:00 pm due to low patronage. “We are used to it, this is how it has always been during harmattan, but some still come around to take pepper soup and one or two bottles of beer and return to their houses as early as possible,” he said. Apart from the harsh weather which has also forced residents to regulate their movements, night crawling has reduced drastically, as residents round up their daily activities fast enough to return home by 6pm.  Findings revealed that most of the major roads within Jos metropolis are often deserted, the moment it is 7:00 pm. Also there are fears of kidnappers who also storm relaxation joints to abduct people for ransom. Families have also resorted to the use of electric room warmer in order to sleep comfortably. Those who cannot afford electric room warmer go for charcoal which they light and place in the centre of the room. Our correspondent who visited the charcoal market along Tafawa Balewa street, discovered a large number of people buying in retail and wholesale for use in the house. The National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC), had on Friday stated that the temperature in Jos had decreased to 6.9 degrees Celsius making the city the coldest in the country. Also those who take alcohol at night now go for exotic gin, whisky, rum, vodka and the like. Sale of beer in contrast is witnessing its lowest patronage. Our correspondent who spoke  with some  housewives especially those whose husbands keep late night or hardly get their attention said they preferred and would have wanted the cold weather to continue unabated if possible. According to the women, during this season their spouses stay at home more. One of them  Madam Weng said jokingly: “most of these men that keep late night are forced to come home on time due to the severe harmattan. So one wouldn’t mind if the weather can continue but this could result in unwanted pregnancies.” Our correspondent gathered that  some women who are looking for the fruit of the womb got pregnant during this period. Investigations also revealed that the weather is affecting both the Christian and Muslim faithful. Some Muslim worshippers said the cold weather is affecting them as they often find it difficult to go to attend the early morning prayers. Churches have also adjusted their time of service to enable more members attend services especially on Sunday mornings. This time around attendance in church services are very low because of the severe harmattan . According to health experts, there is often an increase in the emergence of some chest and respiratory infections at this time. Dr. Stephen a medical doctor said harmattan usually comes with dryness and dust because there is little amount of water in the atmosphere (low humidity) adding that this increases the spread of infections or cases of dry skin, cold, cough, catarrh, asthma, bronchitis and pneumonia. He said asthmatic patients should take a lot of care to protect themselves by wearing nose masks during this period because of the harmattan dust. “The weather can be very cold during harmattan, so it is very important to wear insulating clothing to keep warm. Remedies include lots of fruits and vegetables with Viatmin C to help boost immunity and protect from other infections. Steaming and warm drinks such as tea can also help.” Findings from most of the primary and secondary schools visited by our correspondent revealed that pupils, students and teachers have cattarrh running nose and eyes including  cough . In some classes all the students or pupils are all infested with this communicable disease as a result of a change in weather conditions. “Another is dry skin, this is when the skin appears and feels dry and rough due to the absence of moisture. It is a condition that is common during harmattan. To prevent these very uncomfortable feelings, avoid using very harsh soaps, apply moisturisers frequently on the skin that can protect the skin from dryness and drink lots of water,” he said. The Loss Of Two Lives It is against this background that two friends, Saminu Idris (25) and Idris Dahiru (25), of Gangare community of Jos North Local Government Area of  the state  lost their lives to charcoal smokes. The incident occurred around 12:30 am after the deceased burnt charcoal while preparing to sleep to warm their sleeping room due to the low temperature that the state was experiencing since Friday. They were believed to have inhaled toxic smoke from the burning charcoal and suffocated in the room. Idris Aliyu Adam, father to one of the deceased (Saminu Idris) who confirmed the incident on Sunday at his residence said his family has received the story with shock, saying, “What happened was the will of God. We love them but there is nothing we could do. That is their destiny.” Adam however called on residents in the state to desist from burning charcoal in their sleeping room, saying there are charcoal that may be toxic in nature which people might not know.