In a bid to curtail the spread of Lassa Fever to the state, Ekiti State government has established a special centre where suspected victims will be treated. Governor Kayode Fayemi gave directive in view of the rising statistics indicating that 18 persons had been attacked in Ondo State while also battling many other suspected cases. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Mojisola Yaya-Kolade made the disclosure in Ado Ekiti on Thursday at the flag off of a yellow fever vaccination programme. She said: “Governor Dr Fayemi has placed  all the health officers in Ekiti on alert and we have designated one of our facilities for the special purpose of receiving  any suspected case to the place for immediate treatment. The experts have held meetings with the Governor in this regard. “It has affected Ondo State, our neighbour and we need to be on alert because of the proximity. It is also spreading in Kano. 18 suspects had been diagnosed in Ondo. “Leaders of health sector are in dialogue with stakeholders and international partners now. We have got the mandate of the governor for the procurement of equipment like protective jackets and consumables that will be needed to diagnose and treat any victim. “We have also created a location among the health facilities in  Ekiti where potential victims will be taken to for treatment. That arrangements had been made. “We are also sensitizing our people by letting them know that when you noticed symptoms like body ache, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting haemorrhage, stomach ache   and when temperature keep rising after being treated for malaria fever, then report immediately. Ekiti must be on alert. Prevention is better than cure. We don’t want our people to die in Ekiti as a result of this disease”, she stated. Yaya-Kolade, who represented the first lady, Erelu Bisi Fayemi at the flagged off of anti -yellow fever campaign, stated that the infection is common in Africa and the state-wide vaccination is meant to  safeguard the  populace and stop the spread of the disease in Ekiti. She assured the people of Governor Fayemi’s political will for the provision of financial and necessary manpower for the success of the yellow fever vaccination programme. “We implore the parents, guardians and caregivers to use this opportunity to vaccinate their children . We thank the World Health Organisation (WHO) and United Nations Endowment Fund(UNICEF)   and other partners for their concerns for the well-being of Ekiti  populace”. Also speaking about the danger poses by yellow fever, the WHO’s Regional representative,  Dr. Funmi Kolude, added that the vaccine provides age- long protection  for those that are vaccinated “When you take the vaccine, keep your cards because it provides lifetime protection, though it has no contraindications. You can get infected through mosquito and it is an haemorrhagic fever , which can spread from man- to -man  and we don’t want the spread of such diseases in Ekiti”. The Chairman, Ekiti State Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Mrs Monisola Oloro, said  acute viral haemorrhagic attack is potentially dangerous and can kill any victim, if not properly treated. “Two cases of yellow fever has been identified in Ekiti with 24 suspected cases in 2019. Disease has no boundary, so we need to protect ourselves against contagious diseases that can shorten our life expectancy”, she added. 