As the Supreme Court judgement finally puts the tussle over the Niger State governorship election to an end, the task before the incumbent Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello comes to the fore, ABU NMODU writes Litigations over the last governorship  election in Niger State ended last week with the Supreme Court ruling in favour of the incumbent governor of the state, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello. The apex court in Abuja upheld Bello’s election, bring the long legal tussle for the state’s top seat to a close. Bello, who ran on the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for his second term quest, defeated his closest opponent in the race,  Umar Nasko of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) with 228,347 votes According to the Independent National Electoral Commissioned (INEC)’s Returning Officer for Niger state, Professor Angela Freeman Miri,  the APC candidate polled 526,412 votes while PDP got 298,065 votes. “Having polled the highest votes, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is declared the winner of the election and so returned  elected,” she declared. Interestingly, the APC swept all the 25 local government areas of the state including Magama where the PDP candidate hailed from. Displeased with the outcome of the Polls, Nasko headed to court. Expectedly, the judicial battle started at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal which sat in Minna, September, last year. It however started the process of certifying Bello’s mandate. Nasko dragged the APC candidate, and his deputy, Ahmed Ketso before the tribunal on the grounds of falsification of documents, abuse of electoral processes and other related electoral mal practices. The tribunal, in its judgement read by the chairman Justice, John Igboji, threw out grounds one and two of the petitioner which bordered on alleged falsification of the documents including the credential submitted by the Governor and the Deputy Ahmed Mohammed Ketso to INEC. Justice Igboji in the Judgment of the Tribunal stated that the grounds were struck out  for abuse of court processes as the case was already determined at a federal High court. The tribunal in the judgment said on the issues of falsification of credentials that the tribunal cannot sit as an appellate court on an issue already decided by a Federal High Court. On the issue of electoral malpractice and abuse of electoral process the tribunal  posited that the petitioners merely pleaded facts without substantiating them with evidence. “We have come to the inevitable conclusion that the petitioners have failed to establish their case as there is no shred of cogent evidence in proof of the allegation as required by relevant laws”. Consequently, the tribunal ruled that “in the circumstance we accordingly hold that the petitioners are not entitled to any relief sought, their petition being bereft of any merit and the petition is hereby dismissed for lack of merit. “We therefore affirm and uphold the election of the first respondent, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello as the duly elected governor of Niger state” the Judgement in September further read. The PDP and Umar Nasko were not satisfied with the tribunal ruling. They went to Appeal Court and in November 2019, the it dismissed PDP and its candidate’s appeal. Not deterred, they went to Supreme Court  to seek for redress, but last Wednesday the Supreme Court ruled in favour of the APC and its candidate. In the judgment, Justice Mary Uwani Abaji held that the Supreme Court will not tamper with the concurrent decisions of both the election petition tribunal and Court of Appeal. The seven-man panel of the apex court Justices led by Justice Bode Rhodes Vivour heard the matter while justice Abaji delivered the lead judgement. The judgment brought to an end the litigation and dashed the hopes of the PDP and its candidate as well as their supporters who were expecting to supplant the APC and the incumbent governor in the state. Before the Wednesday judgment, the demeanor of the APC supporters was calm despite the palpable tension over the uncertainty ahead of the Supreme Court Judgment. Conversely, PDP supporters displayed optimism with their popular slogan “Nasko is coming”. They used the slogan to indicate that Nasko the governorship candidate of PDP will get victory at the courts to come and rescue the state from the APC. After the Supreme Court Judgement, the PDP has not issue any statement officially but the candidate Umar Nasko took to his social media handles to post a statement that tactically express his expected disappointments on the Supreme court Judgment. He tagged  it “As Supreme Court” Lacks Jurisdiction” We Come To End Of Electoral  Litigation In Niger”. He stated “When we started the Gubernatorial campaign for Niger state in 2019 under our great party the PDP, we came with the message of hope, that  our agenda was “Moving forward” we did it with a clear understanding that God Almighty gives power to whom he wills, at the time he wills.” According to Nasko “We campaigned vigorously and prayed fervently but God delayed our success but never denied..We took up the man-made obstacles/sharp practices in the electoral process with hope of getting justice from our judicial system but all through we were met by technicalities rather against substantiality. “Today by God’s grace the Supreme Court said it “lacks Jurisdiction” in the case we brought before it and we wonder who then has?” he asked rhetorically while adding that “Be that as it may, as loyal citizens who abide by the law of the land and Democrats whose only purpose in politics is to serve, we might be pained by the outcome of the Supreme Court Judgement, which would have changed the course of our dear state for good, but we accept, that it is the end of the Judicial foray”. The Niger State governor, in his reaction gave an indication to why his government will remain open to all. He preached inclusiveness notwithstanding political difference. He  said that the judgment made by the Supreme Court affirming his election would enable the government to focus on meeting its mandate of his people. Speaking to Journalists after the Supreme Court judgement, Bello reiterated that his government operates an all-inclusive government which allows everyone to make contributions towards the development of the state. The governor expressing delight with the outcome of the  legal battle said “I am glad this matter has come to an end, a complete end, it will allow us as state government to concentrate on what we doing to meet to the aspiration of Nigerlites.” He therefore called on everyone to join hands towards moving the state forward, irrespective of party differences or political ideologies. Saying “We have an all-inclusive government, anyone can come and participate.” The governor called on the people of the state to continue to support the government and maintain peace adding that no rancour was expected as the rule reflects the aspirations and expectations  of the people . In view of this, the governor commended the judiciary for exhibiting the expected fairness and restoring the hope of Nigerlites and Nigerians at large in the justice system. “We had a free and fair and fair election that was won overwhelming, so it is not unusual for people who lost an election to go to the courts, our ability to accept defeat is not the same”, the governor stated. Political Adviser and strategy to Niger State governor, Alhaji Mohammed Nma Kolo  described the judgement as a further endorsement of the purposeful mandate of the governor who is more poised to provide and consolidate on his development agenda for the state. “’The good people of Niger State welcome this judgement as a good development and an opportunity to form new sense of purpose and unity needed to provide the enabling environment needed to tackle developmental challenges,” kolo added. He also enjoined PDP to use this opportunity to join hand with the governor to move the state to the next level of development. According to him, there was no better time than now for them to join hands with the government as Niger state belongs to all irrespective of party affiliations. Beyond the calls for inclusive governance, analysts however believe that with the legal tussle over the mandate over, the need to fast track development in the state becomes expedient. According to Mohammed Ibrahim, a legal practitioner, he said “the length of time and resources spent in addressing electoral litigations isn’t helping the development of the country. As much as we agree that elections matters need to be resolved convincingly, it causes distraction on governance.” He however noted that now that the election is over, the governors needs to hit the ground running. “He has to cover whatever lost ground arising from the distraction of the court case, that does not mean that there was lost ground in any case” Also, Mike Obiekwe, an analyst, said, “the governor has to begin to address those critical issues that bother on the direct welfare of the people of the state.”