Senator Shehu Sani represented Kaduna Central Senatorial district in the National 8th Assembly but could not return to the Red chambers for so many political reasons. However, he has made news recently, but not for good reasons. ISAIAH BENJAMIN takes a look at the controversies sorrounding the allegations, arrest, detention of Senator Sani. On the 1st of January, 2020, the news that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) arrested or invited and interrogated Senator Shehu Sani over an alleged extortion of $20,000 from the owner of ASD Motors, Alhaji Sani Dauda, spread like wild fire particularly on social media. He was also alleged to have collected various sums of money from different individuals promising to assist them to avoid EFCC investigations. The Senator was said to have collected the sum of $20,000 from the owner of ASD Motors on the grounds that he is very close to the EFCC boss, Ibrahim Magu. He was subsequently arrested and granted administrative bail while the said sum was refunded to the victim. The administrative bail was however short lived as he was arrested again and has been in detention ever since. Amidst the arrest, detention and administrative bail, several interpretations have been given to the entire scenario. While some believe that it must have been a political set up to ruin the political career of the Senator, others expressed surprise as to how the senator could stoop so low to the point of extorting money if at all any such thing ever happened. The Senior Special Adviser, political and ideology, to the Senator, Ahmed Suleiman has described the action of the owner of ASD Motors, Alhaji Sani Dauda as mischievous and allowing himself to be used to tarnish the good image of his principal. “Distinguished Senator Sani was invited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on allegation of money extortion to the tune of $20,000 following a petition from ASD accusing the Senator to that effect with a promise to assist him with his case in the EFCC.” Reacting however, to the news of the senator’s invitation by EFCC on social media platforms, the Senator’s aide said, the situation and petition as presented by ASD was far from the truth, adding that the petitioner had called the Senator prior to his invitation not to honour the EFCC’s invitation if he gets any. According to him “Senator Shehu Sani visited ASD to sympathise with him over his daughter’s case and thereafter the ASD motors owner saw his Peugeot car and suggested to him to change it to a higher one but the Senator told him there was no money to do so. “ASD now suggested to the Senator that he could pay instalmentally and the Senator agreed, so when the senator got some money, he went and gave ASD some money, about $12,000 and another $13,000 and ASD gave him a proformer invoice and thereafter wrote his account details on an envelope with the Senator’s name so that he could pay in the balance subsequently. “I want to believe that ASD is being mischievous and possibly allowing himself to be used by politicians. In any case, now that the case is in public domain, it will end up in court and the truth will become very obvious” he stressed. On his part the Senator’s aide believes it is all a set up. He also points out the fact that it was reported that ASD was not the architect of the petition and that it was ASD’s son. “ASD who cannot read or write simply signed without knowing the content and that ASD was said to have called one Samaila Isah Funtua and informed him of a letter written by his son in the custody of EFCC which was an error,” he said. The Senator’s Aide then wondered why that Samaila Isah Funtua was not called for questioning. Again, he queried, “ Is ASD having a case with EFCC or Supreme court, then why will money be extorted from him to settle people in these places? “I think there is more to this, I am sure people are being sponsored to tarnish the Senator’s image, why search his house, office and freezing his accounts? I want to believe that there is more to it”, he averred. The situation however, took a different dimension as the EFCC went beyond just detaining the Senator which has lasted for several days now, the anti-graft agency went on further to search the senator’s Abuja office and house for reasons yet to be ascertained. “In view of the continued detention of the Senator, Abdul Ibrahim (SAN) has filed a motion under Enforcement of Fundamental Rights procedure for Senator Shehu Sani vs EFCC and ASD, before Justice A.B Mohammed at High court no 21 Gudu, claiming N100 million against them for damages (Unlawful detention) and seeking his release. The hearing is slated for Monday 20th January 2020 to move the application for his release, the Senator’s Aide disclosed. Senator Sani, who spoke for the first time last week since he was detained by the EFCC, said the allegation was “baseless, factless, unfounded, hollow and unsubstantial.” He was quoted to have described his detention as “unfair, unjust, pre-arranged and politically motivated.” The commission on January 2 obtained a court order to detain him for the alleged offence. The former head of Nigeria’s Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Chidi Odinkalu, condemned the detention order secured by the EFCC. He said the EFCC cannot arrest a person on allegations of extortion and afterwards get a 14-day detention order to investigate. Senator Sani, who is a major critic of the current administration and Governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, said “framing him” would not silence or compromise him. “Fascism thrives in a frame-up of its critics. They claim extortion and here they are closing my bank accounts, searching my houses and offices and demanding that I declare my assets of which I have already done that at the CCB last year when I left the Senate. “Frame-up cannot silence me. I have never ever met with the CJN or any judge or judges or ever called directly or indirectly to offer to give or to give directly or indirectly any form of gratification from Alhaji Sani Dauda. I have never ever discussed with ASD on any form of bribe or gratification to be given to any judge or any EFCC official. “The bribe story is phantom, the bribe story is a fake, imaginative work of fiction, cruelly crafted to smear me, to frame me and to justify my persecution. “The bribe story is a heap of blatant lies and outright falsehood concocted and fabricated, using a front and the EFCC to premiere a state drama. “ASD is a barely educated front for a state mission. Criminalising me or “framing me” will not silence me, bend me or compromise me”, he was quoted by an online platform to have said. With all the forgoing, only time will tell. It is however, hoped that justice will prevail at the end of the matter.