The Director of Research and Policy, African Network for Environment and Economic and Justice (ANEEJ), Yao Ahiave has said the justice reform implementation in Nigeria is faced with challenges noting that the challenges can be addressed when all stakeholders come together to propose advocacy that will ensure that those works have been used appropriately by all stakeholders particularly government institutions. Ahiave stated this on Friday in Abuja during ANEEJ bi- monthly meeting on Administration of Criminal Justice Acts, (ACJA). He said the data gathered so far is meant to add value to the process saying that a lot have taken place in this area which is the focal point and fair progress has been made so far. In his address, the Programs and Research officer of the organisation, Eitokpah Henry- Paul said the program mainly focuses on the implementation of the Administration of the Criminal Justice Act with concentration on criminal justice reform and monitoring the court system and process. He said the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offenses Commission (ICPC) have made a lot of progress in terms of accountability and transparency with regards to disclosing the forfeitures and the court proceedings they have against criminals and corrupt persons. Paul maintained that there has been more progress under the present administration compared to the past ones. “I will say figures matter a lot and comparing the figures of past administration with this current one, there is a clear difference. So far I think progress is being made in this country gradually. I will start by commending the actors in the judiciary, executive as well as legislature in encouraging a healthy criminal justice system. “At the end of this deliberations, the key factors are education as well as encouraging people to take actions, promoting proper justice reform but a key outcome should be sensitizing people on the trends as regards the implementations of the ACJA”. ANEEJ data collector, Ohiole Kadiri said one of the major issues of ACJA is the issue of adjournment of cases as a resolution of the ACJA which states that there should not be more than five adjournments and also at a time limit which adjournment can be given. “During the collation of data, we noticed that judges have challenges as regards to attitudes of prosecutors, attitudes of litigants and attitudes of legal representatives, that is the counsel defending them. So the provisions of the ACJA have in some ways limited the issues as to adjournment, lengthy litigations, the wasting of time in litigations and all that” Kadiri added.