Akwa Ibom State government has initiated moves aimed at creating at least 14,000 small and medium scale enterprenuers this year. It has also placed a ban on use of raw materials from outside Akwa Ibom for the execution of government projects unless such materials could not be sourced locally. State commissioner for Investment, Trade and Industry, Barr Prince Akpabio made this known weekend at the official launch of the state SME Directory and Portal in Uyo. Akpabio explained that the initiative, known as “Ibom 3,000” is expected to train at least 3,000 prospective entrepreneurs from the three Senatorial districts of the state in six months accruing to 6,000 in one year. According to the commissioner additional 9,000 direct and indirect SMEs are expected to be created from the 6,000 trained and empowered by the project. The initiative he further explained would also involve the building of three industrial clusters in Uyo, Eket and Ikot Ekpene with power and other business boosters in place. The clusters according to him would be completed in 12 months each on a 22 hectares of land and would remain one of the cardinal strategies of the present administration to encourage and boost the local economy. Each of the clusters he said would have 48 industries over 11 sectors including mining, aluminium works, raffia works, leather works, dress making and ICT. The commissioner explained that the state government is taking advantage of current successes recorded in foreign direct investment adding that the state attracted over $52.4 million worth of investment in the first quarter of 2018, attracted 16 industries between 2015 and 2019 and currently have a 250 requests for foreign direct investment. Part of the initiative to also exploit the current success story would involve an SME Expo, SME Business Clinic, One Local Government One Product project and a campaign aimed at encouraging people to patronize Made in Akwa Ibom products. He said that the setting up of the directory and Portal initiative was to move Small and Medium Entreprises in the state from active to viable ones. “We seek to build a strong and economically viable SMEs to complement efforts of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s industrialisation agenda”, he explained.