The Rivers State Ministry of Health has placed a total of 57 people under close surveillance following the outbreak of Lassa Fever in no fewer than 11 states in the country. The acting permanent secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Chinwe Atata, who disclosed this yesterday while briefing newsmen in Port Harcourt, said a resident of the state died of suspected Lassa Fever in Edo State. Atata stated that two samples have been sent to National Reference Laboratory for Virology, pointing out that all two cases were still suspected, unconfirmed and results still being awaited. She said: “In the last few days we have received four reports of suspected cases of Lassa fever in Rivers State, all these cases have received prompt and adequate attention. Two rumours have been investigated and discarded. “Two samples have been sent to National Reference Laboratory for Virology. All two cases are still suspected, unconfirmed and results still being awaited. “However, the state was notified of a resident of Rivers State who was diagnosed in Edo State as a case of Lassa Fever on 22/1/2020. “Incidentally, the Patient passed on at Irrua Specialist Hospital on 22nd January, 2020. Investigation are still ongoing at Edo State together with the Management of the Hospital, family and National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC), as we are working assiduously to ensure Public Health safety in the exposed clusters, especially among health care personnel and the first responders. “Presently, fifty seven persons have been placed under surveillance. We are working in partnership with state, federal agencies and all stakeholders in the interest of public health security. “There is therefore no cause for alarm as the situation recorded is firmly under control. In addition, we have in stock, sufficient quantity of commodities and drugs for therapeutic and preventive interventions in case of further challenges. “The state Infectious Isolation and Treatment teams are all on response modes for swift intervention in view of the prevailing upsurge of Lassa fever in the country, all health service centres are to maintain simple triage system for all patients and standards Infection Prevention Principles required for service delivery. “Use of gloves, face masks and hands sanitizers, as well as Infra-red Temperature Scans at health facilities, should not be compromised for any suspected viral fever. Cautious management of laboratory samples is advised. “The public is further advised to continue all necessary preventive measures in the circumstance. Prevention is better than cure. It is important to remind you that Lassa fever is an acute Viral Hemorrhagic illness caused by the Lassa Virus.”