Members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) yesterday staged a massive protest in Abuja following US’ killing of top Iranian General, Qasem Soleimani following an airstrike and the detention of their leader, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. The protesters also demanded the release of their leader’s wife Zeenat. Speaking exclusively to LEADERSHIP the president, Media Forum of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, Ibrahim Musa said the protest was in solidarity of the group’s “leaders killed by the US.” Musa described the airstrike ordered by US President Donald Trump as provocative. According to him, “For sometime now we having been holding our daily free El-El-Zakzaky protest but today’s protest was done in solidarity of killing of top Iranian General, Qasem Soleimani following by an airstrike by the US. “Our protest was very peaceful and we urge Nigerians not to see us as violent. Our protest only turns violent if we are attacked by security forces.” He said the US killing of Soleimani is condemnable and a “declaration of war” on Iran, “which has now dangerously made the world on the edge of a very destructive war.” He noted that for quite some time now, President Trump has been looking for ways to drag the Iranian nation to a senseless war. “However the US killers, God willing, will not be able to achieve any of their goals with this great crime. Rather, all of Hajj Qassem’s goals will be accomplished by the greatness of his soul and blood. This will be accomplished by his brothers, children, and students from resistance men and mujahideen from all the peoples of the world that reject humiliation and submission to the tyrants of this century. “Indeed Hajj Soleimani will forever be remembered because he led the destruction of the murderous ISIS terrorism that the genocidal US regime created, trained, armed and sustained,” he said. The IMN members, known as Shiites stormed Banex, Wuse area of Abuja to protest the killing and burnt a US flag. The protesters were chanting the slogan, “death to America,” as the burnt America’s flag. 