Former Heads of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar, General Yakubu Gowon, former Niger State governor, Dr. Muazu Babangida Aliyu and former governor of Adamawa State, Murtala Nyako have called on the governors of the 19 northern states and the federal government to pay more attention to agriculture. This formed the main issue for discussion at the Sixth Annual Lecture of the Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation (SABMF) held in honour of the late Premier of Northern Nigeria. While the former Niger governor who is the chairman Board of Trustees of the foundation stressed the need to improve the nation’s food production by 70 per cent, in view of the population projection which is expected to double by 2050, General AbdulSalami said the solution is to go into mechanised farming. According to him, “We need to pay serious attention to agriculture and other agriculture value chains, because there is nothing more important than food. “Without agriculture and all these value chains, we are no where and the population is increasing. So, it is a good thing that the foundation is reminding us and I commend their efforts.” On his part, General Gowon who was represented by former minister of Interior, Lieutenant General Abdulraham Dambazzau (rtd) commended the organizers for choosing the topic saying, “It is very important because by 2050, our population will double to 410 million and what we will require in terms of food will be 10 times or more what we require today.” He added, “We have quite a number of challenges and one of such challenges has to do with population growth and loops holes, also the issue of the girl child; these are very key issues that the north needs to look at with a view to surmounting the already established challenges.” Dr. Babangida Aliyu who is the chairman Board of Trustees of the foundation in his welcome address pointed out that, food requirements in the world would astronomically increase by about 70 per cent of the current level of demand. He said the north must embrace integrated agricultural production and practices to catch up or be confined to live in squalor. He noted that the choice of the topic for this year’s lectures, “Integrated Agriculture for Food Security and Sustainable Economic Regeneration in Northern Nigeria” was deliberate and was meant to reawaken the region on the precarious state of food security and the grim picture of the country’s future. He pointed out that the region needs to, not only redouble its current food production but also change its strategies and approaches to food production for more yields and profitability to farmers and the end users. The former governor cautioned that in order to avert hunger and imminent global shortage of food in the country and the whole world in the next 30 years, Nigerian farmers must key into new and more result oriented agricultural productivities. He lamented that farmers in the region were being hamstrung by lack of farm inputs such as fertilizer, improved seeds and seedlings, financial support, new evolving knowledge, machines and technology, increased desertification, decrease in arable land for farming and land tenure system. He argued that the aforementioned factors have made it incumbent for farmers in the region and the country to adopt modern global trends in agricultural practices. Guest speaker at the occasion and former governor of Adamawa State, Vice Admiral Murtala Nyako (rtd), in his position paper, said man must continually evolve improvement strategies to stem hunger or be doomed by starvation. He said food production has moved to science and technology to meet man’s ever increasing need to stay alive. The guest speaker said for farmers in the region to increase their farm yields; they must adopt new breed technology. He said a farmer would be wasting his life if he continues to hold on to traditional approaches to food production. He cited countries in Europe, Latin America, and even some African countries where their farmers have achieved food sufficiency in food production, diary products and meats from livestock including fish production by adopting new, evolving techniques to increase yields. Murtala Nyako warned that the country’s farmers couldn’t attain the level of food demands in the country with the present manual and analog farming methods. “It is not possible,” he declared. “We cannot do agriculture without efficient extension delivery systems. Our farmers must be trained and retrained seasonally, do soil editing, good transportation system, have sufficient water supply sources, good pricing and markets,” he added. He said that education was a necessary starting point for farmers in the region and the country at large. “Our farmers must be educated beyond all traditional approaches to farming and food production,” he declared. In his remarks, the managing director/chief executive officer of the foundation, Engineer Abubakar Gambo Umar extolled the selflessness and good leadership qualities of Sir Ahmadu Bello who stood for the development of the whole north as a region. Elder statesman and an associate of Sardaunan Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello, Shehu Malami, recalled that the late Sir Ahmadu Bello made agriculture a cornerstone of his administration. He paid tribute to the late Premiere of Northern Nigeria for quality leadership, patriotism and love for the region. On their parts, Prof. Muhammed Kuta Yahaya, and Dr. (Mrs) Abdulkadir Aisha who were discussants of the lead paper all emphasised the need for Nigeria as a country to go back to drawing board when agriculture used to be the main stay of the economy as part of measures to address food security. Highlight of the programme was the bestowing of Award of Excellence on General Yakubu Gowon; Late President Shehu Usman Aliyu Shagari; Hon. Justice Fati Lami Abubakar and Late Chief Sunday B. Awoniyi, for their various contributions to the development of the region and the country at large.