Former special adviser on strategy and statistics to the minister of transport Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, Hon. Okey Okirie, has raised the alarm over threat to his life by operatives of Eagle Crack Police team, operating from the Mile One Police Station in Port Harcourt. Okirie worked with Amaechi when he held sway as the governor of Rivers State. While addressing journalists in Port Harcourt yesterday, Okirie said, following alleged threats and attacks by the policemen allegedly led by the commander of Eagle Crack, Mr Benson Adetunyi, his family now live like fugitives in the state. He narrated that one of his business partners, Nwabueze Emeghara allegedly filed a fraudulent case against him at the E-Crack Unit to force him to release money meant for public project for his alleged embezzlement, adding that when he refused to release the money which would amount to fraud, they (E-Crack and Emeghara) all started harrasing him and his family. The former governor’s aide disclosed that the money was for contract awarded to his company for Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), road construction project in Edo State. According to him, when he realised on getting to the site that the money he was releasing to Emeghara was not properly used for the execution of the projects, he stopped and decided to carry on the construction of the project himself which did not pleased his partner (Emeghara), hence he allegedly decided to use the E-Crack police team to force him to release all the money in their company’s joint bank account. Okirie, who was in tears and fear for his life while speaking with journalists, said his family have been separated just for their safety, adding that even when the matter is pending before the Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt, the E-Crack police team continue to harass and threatens anyone who seem to be relating with him. He said: “I am under serious threat. They go to my house beat up the security, cease their phones check whether we are into any conversation with them. As I talk to you my life and family are in danger. We live like fugitives. “On December 29, 2019, on January 9, 2020 the E-Crack police team were in my house. Just last week Thursday, they went to the house when they did not see me, they invaded the house of the Chairman of the estate, called him out of his house and started flogging him. The policemen beat him to almost coma when the wife had to called senior police officers who came to rescue him from the E-Crack men.