As part of efforts to ensure the prescription and dispensation of high quality medicine in the country, the Federal Ministry of Health has urged major stakeholders in the health sector to ensure the implementation of the national health policy documents as guidelines. Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, stated this at a one-day sensitization and dissemination workshop on the national treatment guidelines, initiated by the PSN-PACFaH@Scale, in Abuja. He said the purpose of the key policy documents for the national health system was to ensure the availability of high quality medicine for proper health care in the country’s health delivery system. The national treatment guidelines are the Nigeria Standard Treatment Guidelines (NSTG) and the National Essential Medicine List (EML) respectively. The documents were developed in accordance with the World Health Organization (WHO), that all member states should periodically review their EML to align with global best practices and also with the disease pattern and prevalence in every country. According to the minister, the EML contains the medicines which are considered to be most effective, safe, available, affordable, and accessible to meet the most important needs in the health system for the majority of the population. Also speaking at the event, the chairman NDF/EML Review Committee, Prof. John Obodo, said the content of the EML is to provide safe medication, affordable drugs and to also help curb wastages of providing too many drugs for the cure of a particular disease that seem to appear in the system. Obodo however commended the level of compliance by health professionals since the dissemination process. In his remarks, the programme director, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria- Partnership for Advocacy in Child and Family Health (PSN-PAS), Munir Elelu, reiterated the organisation’s commitment towards assisting the federal government in advocating for full implementation of the national treatment guidelines at both zonal and state levels to further improve the delivery of health care in Nigeria.