At least 13 people were killed in Kulben Village, Kombun District in Mangu local government area council of Plateau State by suspected gunmen on Wednesday night, following an attack on members of the community who were asleep in their various homes. Member, representing Mangu South Constituency in the state House Assembly, Bala Fwangje, who confirmed the development to newsmen, described as barbaric and unacceptable, the killings of 13 members of his constituency. He noted that the people of Kulben community are peaceful and accommodating and wonder why some heater of peace and enemies of the state will lay siege on innocent and harmless people of the area. The member called for calm amongst his people as security agencies and stakeholders are putting heads together to fish out those behind the act. According to him, most of the victims that lost their lives are youths, while four others are receiving treatment in the hospital. Meanwhile, governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, has condemned in strong terms, the killing of innocent persons. The governor in a reaction through the director of press, Makut Simon Macham, described the attack as another attempt to puncture the peace that has gradually returned to the state. Lalong, while commiserating with victims and families of those killed, warned that his administration will not sit down and watch any group or individuals cause chaos in the state and return it to the dark days of insecurity. “We have toiled to ensure that peace returns to Plateau State and we will not allow anyone to make nonsense, our efforts. We are determined to deal decisively and firmly with anybody found culpable in attacking or inciting people to carry out attacks against one another.” The governor commended security agencies for arresting seven suspects connected to the killings and restoring normalcy saying investigations will be carried out to get to the bottom of the matter as anyone found wanting will face the full wrath of the law. He called for calm and advised against reprisals as government is dealing with the situation. Those injured have been taken to general hospital Mangu and are responding to treatment. Aslo, chairman of Mangu LGA Lawrence Danat equally appeal for peace, saying the attack took place on Wednesday night. The Plateau State Police Command confirmed the incident through the Public Relations Officer, Mathais Trena Tyopve, who said 12 people were killed while one was injured and is receiving treatment at the General hospital Mangu, while investigation is ongoing.