Nigerians have been charged to desist from degrading the environments through indiscriminate dumping of refuse. The Bishop, Catholic Diocese of Osogbo, Most Rev John Oyejola who stated this during an environmental sanitation exercise declared as part of activities marking the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the diocese affirmed that dirty environment is threatening the health and wellbeing of the people in the country. The Bishop who noted that environmental sanitation is a business for everybody said the Church decided to embark on the exercise to express the importance of hygiene to the world. “As children of God we must be holy and clean in everything we do. It must be known that our physical environment goes a long way to describe our internal contents or disposition. “In other word, for every human person, his physical environment is a projection of who he is within. It therefore suffices to say that cleanliness leads to Godliness; if you are not clean, you can’t serve God rightly. “Besides, the human soul which is the image of all holy God must be cared for in  a clean physical environment as this will provide a good atmosphere for  holistic and all-round growth,” the bishop said. Addressing journalists during the sanitation exercise in Osogbo, the Vicar General of the diocese, Rev Fr Thaddeus Ajayi expressed satisfaction at the turn out of priests and members across the parishes he visited. Explaining the essence of the environmental sanitation, Fr Ajayi said “the celebration of the Silver Jubilee is the celebration of the Catholic faith and the major part of that faith is the recognition of the gift of nature that God has given to us humanity; the gift of the beautiful environment that we have. The book of Genesis reminds us that God created everything good and after the creation, he now created a human person to take charge of it and be the caretaker. He expressed displeasure over the dirty habits of Nigerians and asked them to care for their environments because dirty environments threaten the health and wellbeing of people. 