A pro-feminine non-governmental organisation, under the auspices of the The Girl Child Destiny for Better Tomorrow (TGCDBT) has advocated for a woman to be selected for the Deputy Governorship position of Anambra state in the coming gubernatorial election. The group in a statement signed by the its coordinator and made available to LEADERSHIP Weekend yesterday in Abuja noted that four names were suggested for possible consideration with special emphasis on Hon Beverly Ifeanyi Nkemdiche whom they believe is capable. Others whose names made the list for consideration were, Rita Maduagwu, Vivian Okadigbo and Anthonia Tabasi-Okoye. Extolling the qualities of women as capable hands that could function well as the deputy governor or the governorship election, the group stated that the current Deputy Chief Whip and highest-ranking member of the Anambra state house of Assembly, Nkemdiche stands tall among the rest. Nkemdiche who is the member, representing the people of Onitsha 2 constituency in the house is said to be enjoying a good working relationship with the Speaker and the governor, Chief Willie Obiano. According to the group, ‘’Hon. Beverly Nkemdiche who is in her third tenure in the House has been serving her constituency, Onitsha South 2 in the State House of Assembly under the ruling party the All Progressives Grand Alliance(APGA) diligently and has been their voice as the only woman in the House”. ‘’Through her Nkemdiche Foundation, she has reached out to the less privileged, widows, indigent students whom she pays their tuition and funds little businesses for her constituents. She is best known for her kindness, honesty, intelligence, courage and outspokenness.” The statement added that the inclusion of Nkemdiche in governance at the executive angle would bring about better bargain for the women folks in Anambra state and the girl child in particular as they are of the opinion that the future of the Anambra girl child will be better served with her as the deputy governor of Anambra state in the next dispensation.