Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu has said that President Muhammadu Buhari is uncomfortable with importation of commodities which Nigeria has comparative advantage and can produce at lesser cost into the country. Onu stated this in a keynote address he delivered at the South East zonal stakeholders sensitization on the implementation of the national policy on methanol fuel production technology at the International Conference Centre, Umuahia, Abia state capital. He said what was being done is very important to the economy, adding that it will improve the standard of living of the people, help create jobs for both the young and the old as well as create wealth for individuals and the country. Describing such importations as unhealthy to the economy of the country, he added that Nigerians should start producing many of the commodities they consume as a self-reliant country even as the task may be difficult. His words, “The essence of this sensitization programme is to make Nigerians understand and appreciate the enormous benefits of introducing methanol into our economy. You have been carefully selected to participate in this programme.” The minister, therefore, lammented that for long the economy had relied entirely on commodities which did not add value to the national resources, adding that as a result the revenue had been very limited. “Also, it has adversely affected job creation. This has not been good to us as a nation. We now want to add value to our natural resources by adding value to our natural resources by utilizing science, technology and innovation.” “Methanol has many applications and can be very beneficial to our economy. The chemical industry is one of the least developed as we virtually import all chemicals used in our factories. Our manufacturers use it as a feedstock for several useful products.” Similarly, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, stressed that all hands must be on deck towards the realization of the policy, adding that it came at the very time when every effort was being made to wane the economy from overdependence on petroluem. Represented by his deputy governor, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu, he maintained that “We will surely and diligently follow the implementation of the policy to maximise its benefits which includes creation of wealth and employment opportunities.” In his goodwill message, the minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uche Ogah, said the technology will be very crtical to the rapid development of mines and steel industry and the economy of the country in general. According to the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Engineer Chinedum Orji, introduction of the technology could not had come at a better time than now following its advantages which includes environmental friendliness. Represented by the deputy minority leader of the House, Hon Chijioke Nwachukwu, representing Bende North State constituency, he assured that the House will partner with the government through legislative framework to achieve the policy.