Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Sokoko Zonal Office, said it secured the conviction of no fewer than 3-persons in Sokoto, over vote buying offence committed in the 2019 general elections. Addressing newsmen ahead of the Sokoto supplementary/rerun elections slated for today, Saturday, the Zonal Head of EFCC, Abdullahi Lawal said that their men are fully on ground to ensure that those preparing to buy or sell votes are apprehended and prosecuted adequately. According to him, politicians and electorate alike should take caution, as their men and their informants are all over the place. EFCC Sokoto Zonal Office comprises of Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara states. The Zonal Head, Mr Lawal while raising alarm over  fake currency in circulation in Sokoto State lately, said, they are working round the clock to ensure that anybody caught in possession of such currency face the full wrath of the law. While warning politicians that EFCC will carry out arrest even at the polling units, Mr Lawal advised against carrying huge sum of money to such places to avoid been suspected. “We have gotten vital information in respect of money withdrawal by politicians meant to buy votes ahead of the Saturday’s election. “We have set out machinery in most of the polling units, and we have sent out our informants. We gave out our numbers to be reached by the informants and let me tell you that we will arrest suspects even at the polling units. “Hold money to the polling units, but it should be reasonable, hence you are not going to the polling units to buy anything or sell as well”. Mr Lawal, who further disclosed that they have had meetings with all the compliance officers of the various banks in Sokoto to report suspicious withdrawals to them, added also that, people must not shiver in divulging vital information to them as the whistle blower initiative is still very much in existence. “Whistle blowing is still very much in existence. Just that, some started using it to blackmail others unnecessarily, therefore, we became very cautious to avoid litigations. “We now have a form to be filled by any whistle blower in the event such information given to us is discovered to be fake.