The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has appealed to the Chartered Institute of Nigeria (CITN) to find a away of convincing the populace to make sacrifices in paying their tax for the development of Nigeria. The Kebbi Governor made the call on Thursday 30/1/2020 at the 7th Zonal Tax Conference of chartered Institute of Nigeria holding at the Presidential Banquet Hall in Birnin Kebbi. Bagudu expressed concern that the tax collection in the country was far below projected revenue target. He opined that a forum of professionals like that of chartered Institute of Nigeria that was not inclined to any political party can greatly suggest and inform people of the need to pay their taxes to finance development of the country. He charged the members of the chartered Institute of taxation of Nigeria (CTIN) to apply the appropriate strategy to reverse the unpleasant situation. He said often times people have focused and accepted the tragic view that the country was not making progress because money was being wasted instead of not accepting that the country was not making progress enough bacause enough was not generated to fund our development. While lamenting that Nigeria has one of the lowest tax GDP ratio in the world, he stressed the need for the country to generate resources to finance her development at the state, sub national or at the federal level. Earlier, the President and chairman of council, CTIN , Dame Gladys Olajumoke in her remarks, noted that any nation that wanted to develop, issues bothering on tax management must be addressed. According to her ” The world over, particularly in developing economies, revenue generation and effective tax management has always posed a challenge. This challenge is more pronounced in mono – product economies, which Nigeria, sadly, belongs to”she said. She further emphasized that taxes can only be generated in an enabling environment to attract enterprenuership and foreign direct investment and in the long run enhance domestic resource mobilisation. “Such countries have faced serious challenges in mobilizing adequate revenue to fund development. Government authorities until recently, had largely focuses their efforts in exploring their natural resources and exporting same for foreign exchange earning from these resource, coupled with corruption and poor management of these economies. There is now focus on revenue from other sources, particularly, taxes”, she said. The CTIN president commended the Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu for his good leadership qualities saying ” Bagudu is the kind of leader Nigeria needs “. She thanked the governor for facilitating the success of the zonal tax conference in Birnin Kebbi.