The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) which is the main opposition party in Ondo State has lampooned Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu over his warning to the civil servants in the state against wearing campaign T-shirts in the coming election. Akeredolu had during the annual special prayer at his office in Akure to mark first working day of the year, warned the state workers against wearing of any political materials, as this is against civil service rules and regulations But PDP, in a press statement signed by its Director of Publicity, Zadok Akintoye, noted that the governor’s directive is a direct show of the insincerity of the APC-led government. The party said it is nothing but a true reflection of hypocrisy. The party said, “It is on record that several pressure groups campaigning for the re-election bid of the governor are not only promoted by top civil servants under the watch of this government but are largely financed through funding from this government. “We dare say, that the Governor has through several means endorsed what he now seeks to openly distance himself from through his deliberate policies of promoting nepotism in the public service, thus forcing civil servants to either tow his line of support or be denied their rights. “How else can a government ensure that it is supported by civil servants through the force of persuasion, except through the deliberate denial of institutionalized promotion systems that mandates that appointments into senior management positions must be through hierarchy and seniority? ‘’A government that wilfully ignores the right of civil servants to headship of agencies but promotes nepotism in a bid to satisfy some cronies of this governor and his supporters within the service should not now be hypocritically trying to gain some false good reputation.” The party, however, asked the Governor to disband all his support groups with known civil servants actively involved in promoting his second term ambition, if indeed he is sincere in the call. The party reminded the citizens of the state that the government has not only brought more systemic injustices into the service but remains insincere and untruthful in its directive. PDP give the government a 24-hour ultimatum to disband his campaign and support groups championed by top civil servants, if indeed he is sincere about his call.