Nigeria is one of the biggest gainers at the just concluded United Kingdom – Africa Investment Summit which had in attendance 21 African leaders, UK and African businesses, international institutions and young entrepreneurs. The summit is an attempt by the UK government to strengthen its trade ties with African economy as it moves closer to finalising the deal on Brexit and exiting the European Union. To date London has signed trade continuity agreements with 12 African countries, to replace existing trade deals via the EU. Focus of the summit was on sustainable finances and infrastructure, clean energy, climate change and trade and investment as deals signed were majorly in critical sectors including infrastructure, energy, retail and technology. As the UK is set to pull out of the EU by the end of this month, the country’s plan is to become the biggest investor in African countries, although trade volume of trade between African countries and counties like China and India is on the rise. Doing this involves growing investments that are sustainable and provide jobs in Africa Countries and in this respect, the summit was successful as 27 commercial deals worth more than £6.5 billion had been signed between UK companies and African countries such as Ghana, Kenya, Côte d’Ivoire, Cameroon, Egypt amongst others and Nigeria wasn’t left behind. Also, the UK government at the summit announced £1.5 billion of initiatives, including £350 million to develop sustainable infrastructure projects, as it set up partnerships with Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya and Uganda alongside the African Development Bank (AfDB), with the aim of generating billions of pounds of private sector investment in sustainable energy, transport and telecoms. Deals signed at the summit included a £167 million investment by brewer Diageo in Kenya and a £222 million deal by NMS Infrastructure to build six hospitals in Côte d’Ivoire. Nigeria also signed business deals with four British companies on the sidelines of the Summit in London. Low Energy Designs won an export contract to install street lighting in Oyo State while Savannah will invest £315 million in the acquisition and investment of Ingas Assets in Nigeria. Another British company Tex ATC is expected to install five airport control room towers worth £2 million in different parts of Nigeria while Trilliant got a deal to install £5 million of Smart Metering for Abuja DisCo. Several other deals were expected to be signed throughout the day, with African and UK businesses committing investments expected to reach into the billions. Nigeria likewise got new UK government assistance to grow the UK-Nigeria trade and investment partnership, significant UK commitments to support Nigeria develop an enabling environment to turbo-charge economic growth, including helping address land issues for investment; strengthening and improving the finance sector; helping entrepreneurs secure access to finance; preparing the ground for the launch in the UK of naira-denominated bonds – “Jollof Bonds”; and developing the tech sector. Also there were substantial initiatives to accelerate the clean energy transformation in Nigeria, through enhanced technical and financial support at the summit as strong commitments to harness private sector support for social development, particularly supporting women and young people in business were forged Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari who led the Nigerian delegation at the summit had earlier noted that the London investment summit will provide Nigeria with the opportunity to project itself as a leading investment destination for new industries, with the expected take-off of the African Continental Free Trade Area in mid-2020. Asides this, the summit according to the presidency deepen Nigeria-United Kingdom investment ties post-Brexit as Africa currently represents just two per cent of British trade activity, with Nigeria accounting for only 10 per cent of that total. The Nigerian delegation to the investment meeting showcased what the federal government had done through policies and legislations to improve the investment and business climate in the country. Nigeria has been moving up on the Ease of Doing Business ladder and is expected to further move up with the recent reforms in the country. President Buhari at the summit had highlighted Nigeria’s achievements in agriculture which is gradually leading it to self-sufficiency in rice and other grains, saving the country billions in foreign exchange. As he lobbied the British community to invest in the Nigerian economy, he said “for my country, greater UK engagement in its economy would bring jobs to under-tapped sectors, such as agriculture and manufacturing.” Buhari in an opinion published in The Guardian ahead of the UK-Africa Investment Summit in London, said “millions of highly skilled, English-speaking but underemployed young people, are eager to work but without the opportunities that foreign investment can bring to create jobs and build businesses.” UK’s Secretary of State for International Trade, Liz Truss MP said “Africa represents a huge opportunity for UK businesses, so it’s brilliant to see so many British firms paving the way in trading and investing in the region today to drive growth, create jobs and boost vital infrastructure. We want the UK to be the investment partner of choice for African nations, and our world-leading expertise in finance, tech, and innovation, makes the UK and Africa natural partners for prosperity.” British High Commissioner, Catriona Laing, speaking at the Summit, noted that “Nigeria was out in force at the inaugural UK-Africa Investment Summit.  Nigeria has already secured billions of naira worth of deals from the Summit.  With the launch of an exciting range of initiatives to help investors identify opportunities in Nigeria, I am confident much more will follow. “I am proud the Summit had a strong focus on supporting female participation in the economy.  In Africa, women are more likely to become entrepreneurs than men and, with a fast-growing population, Nigeria needs to harness the dynamism of its women to ensure prosperity for all its people.” Likewise, Head of the Department for International Development in Nigeria, Chris Pycroft, who also attended the Summit said “the private sector has a critical role to play in supporting Nigeria’s economic growth and in creating the jobs that Nigeria’s young and growing population need.  The UK-Africa Investment Summit was an excellent opportunity for Nigeria to show off the wealth of opportunities it offers businesses, from agriculture to mining to tech. “I am delighted we are able to use our aid programme in Nigeria to support this agenda – from small steps like helping the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission produce an investment guide through to the serious investment we are making in strengthening Nigeria’s agriculture and finance sectors. “As well as stimulating the economy and creating the jobs needed to lift millions of Nigerians out of poverty, this package of partnerships will deliver a range of wider social benefits, from improving energy access on to extending access to banking and loans to the poorest consumers and female entrepreneurs.” Commenting on the deals signed at the summit, economist, Abubakar Ali, said the new partnerships formed at the summit will foster increased trading among the countries. Noting that Nigeria has a huge market that is attractive to investors, he said the deals would bring would see a growth in employment statistics as well as improve skills of the workforce. On his part, analyst at FXTM, Lukman Otunuga noted that the UK-Africa Investment Summit was a major milestone in international relations and paved the way to fresh partnerships across Africa. “More than $6.5 billion worth of commercial deals in sectors including infrastructure, energy, retail and technology were signed at the summit. “Among the top winners was Nigeria as it secured business deals with four British companies. While this development is encouraging for Nigeria as the country steers away from oil dependence, any positive impacts will be longer term. “Nigeria certainly has the potential to secure a better trade deal with the UK post Brexit but this will depend on a host of factors. During the 11-month transition period, most of the UK’s efforts will be on the European Union and other major trading partners, meaning that African nations may be down the list on trade. However, a UK outside of the European Union may have less negotiating power which gives Nigeria and other African nations a chance to secure mutually beneficially deals.