Since former Senate president, Dr. Bukola Saraki, blew the lid on the plots by the Kwara State governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, to destroy the legacies of his late father, Oloye Abubakar Olusola Saraki, the political waters of the state have been unsettled. MUYIWA OYINLOLA writes on the mounting opposition to the state government’s action. On Saturday December 28, 2019, when the year was rounding up and everyone was looking into 2020 with great expectation, former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki broke the sad news of efforts by Kwara State Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq to rewrite the political history of the state by rubbishing the achievements of his late father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki, popularly called Oloye, to the dustbin. In a statement titled: “Revocation of Late Saraki’s Land: Abdulrasaq has crossed the line”, Bukola Saraki drew public attention to the war of attrition being waged against the legacy of his father and everything that belongs to the late politician. He said that everything the governor had done against the late elder statesman portrayed him as a man who lacks the sense of history and set out only to fight the Saraki family but not to serve the interest of Kwarans. He accused AbdulRazaq of announcing his decision to revoke the ownership of a property rightfully held by the late Saraki on Plots 1, 3 and 5 Ilofa Road, GRA, Ilorin popularly known as Ile Arugbo, (Old People’s home) which since the Second Republic, has always been used to host the weekly gathering of a multitude of aged people in the society who are provided food, money and health services, as part of the social welfare programme sponsored by the late politician. The tradition has since been maintained. “Before now, this same governor had invited all the members of the state House of Assembly and directed them to commence the process of amending the law to change the name of the state university which the last administration renamed after my late father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki. He then followed up on this act of vengeance by initiating a bill to rename the university and expunge the name of the late Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki. Now, he has decided to also As Opposition Mounts Against Demystification Of The Sarakis Abdulrazaq Saraki  revoke the titles of the landed property which belongs to the late politician. May be, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq thinks his will be the last administration in Kwara State but definitely, this is self-delusion,” he said. Since the matter became public, there have been diverse views expressed by Nigerians within and outside the state, but the opposition has been fierce and virulent. Only on Wednesday, kinsmen of the late Second Republic Senate leader in the famous Agbaji quarters, Ilorin, described the revocation of Saraki’s landed property by the state governor, as vengeance taken too far and a way of settling scores with the Saraki family. They, therefore, called on stakeholders to intervene in the matter and find a lasting solution to the age-long rivalry between the Saraki and AbdulRazaq families. The elders said that their appeal became necessary “in order not to disrupt the peaceful co- existence of the people of Ilorin Emirate.” Addressing a news conference at the frontage of Saraki’s Agbaji, Ilorin family residence, the national president of Agbaji Development Association, Alhaji Musa Yusuf Olanrewaju, clarified that the land in question “ has been in use by the late Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki for more than 30 years, as against the insinuation that the land was allocated to the late politician by Senator Abubakar Bukola Saraki when he was the state governor.” In the same vein, the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) slammed the governor over his decision to revoke the ownership of the property belonging to late deceased political giant. The forum, in a statement issued in Lagos by its national president, Yerima Shettima, said the brazen use of force by Governor AbdulRazaq to hijack the property of the late politician was a total disregard to the Saraki family and an insult on the people of Kwara State. He said: “We have learnt that late Saraki’s property that is being hijacked by the powersthat-be namely the Kwara State government is nothing but a war of attrition. This is because the property in question was being used by the late Olusola Saraki to take care of old people, the poor and the sick, who lack the resources to face the challenges of health, hunger and poverty. “It is interesting to see that even after his death, this philanthropy has been sustained by the family. We therefore have reasons to suspect that it was a mission in disguise to wipe out the empowerment legacies of the late Olusola Saraki. “This is an abuse of office, a disservice to the people of Kwara and a ridiculing of the unity and brotherhood among northerners,” Shettima said. The state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the revocation of the land was an error capable of causing a future crisis in the state. The PDP in a statement signed by its state chairman, Engineer Kola Shittu, said that the revocation of the land “Ile Arugbo” was a further demonstration of Governor Abdulrazaq’s vendetta mission against the Saraki family. The party noted that the action of the governor does not in any way reflect the interest of Kwarans, adding that the move could create rivalry and crisis among people of Ilorin in particular and the state in general. “The Kwara PDP maintains that there is no basis or justification for the Kwara State government to revoke the land which was duly acquired many years ago by the late Saraki. This is a great error on the part of Governor Abdulrazaq and a greater disservice to the memory of Baba Oloye who during his lifetime, made sacrifices and contributions to the development of not only Ilorin Emirate but Kwara as a whole and even beyond,” Shittu said. On Wednesday, a socio-political group, Olusola Saraki Legacy Group raised the alarm that the state government had sent a squad to demolish the structures on disputed land. The group in a statement signed by its coordinator, Zikhrullahi Abdullahi, claimed that at about 11.45pm on the eve of the New Year, a senior government official led a demolition squad equipped with a bulldozer to Ilofa road to pull down the buildings on the land. He claimed that the squad was resisted by a crowd of supporters of the Sarakis, mostly old women, who quickly mobilise against the demolish team. “The old women told the squad that with their advanced age, they are not afraid to die and would be ready to lay down their lives. “In a sudden twist, the government official received a phone call from an unknown person and then directed the driver of the bulldozer and other members of his team to withdraw while he jumped into a vehicle and drove off. “The bulldozer was eventually traced to Ita Elepa where it was parked. It is believed that further attempts would still be made to demolish the structure on the property. Saraki’s supporters have since vowed to be keeping vigil at the frontage of the property on Ilofa Road,” he said. The state government on Wednesday broke its silence through the Bureau of Lands on the controversy surrounding the Civil Service Clinic land and its adjourning plots in Ilorin, the state capital. The Bureau of Lands in a statement signed by its director-general, Ibrahim Salmam, said: “The entire land was acquired in the 1970s for overriding public interest and same was initially designed to host the phase II of the State Secretariat. The construction of the said State Secretariat Phase II was actually commenced and it was at superstructure level before same was abandoned. “The entire land was later redesigned in the 1980s for the construction of a Civil Service Clinic, State Secretariat, and a parking lot for both the Clinic and the State Secretariat. “The Clinic was subsequently constructed in 1982, while the remaining plots of land were conceived for the expansion of the Clinic into a full-fledged Hospital. “The dream of the State Government was stalled when part of the land slated for the parking lot was spuriously allocated in principle to one Asa Investment for commercial purpose. “From available records, the allocation was not based on a formal application, nor application forms filled; there was no evidence of payment for the said allocation as stipulated in the letter of allocation in principle and consequently, no right of occupancy was ever issued to the Company. “Furthermore, in flagrant abuse of the allocation terms, the company took possession of the land and constructed what is today known as “Ile Arugbo” on part of the land that was designed as parking lot and later conceived to host the expansion of the Civil Service Clinic into a full-fledged Hospital. “Following a resolution of the Kwara State House of Assembly mandating him to revoke/ withdraw the spurious allocation, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq recently signed an instrument to reclaim the land on the ground that same was unlawfully allocated to a private Company contrary to the public purpose of its acquisition and occupied in breach of the terms of allocation. “This press release is intended to state the facts on the land recently revoked/withdrawn by the state government as contained in our records,” he said. But stakeholders in the state have asked the governor to concentrate on developing the state instead of taking advantage of his position to renew the cold war between his family and the Sarakis. They said that no matter what the governor does, the legacies of the late Saraki and his political dynasty cannot be erased. They expressed that the state government was fighting the Saraki family when her daughter, Gbemi Saraki, contributed a lot to the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state in the last general elections. According to them, the property in question has never been in contention with any government (even during military regime), prior to the coming of the government of Governor AbdulRazaq. As the controversy rages, the state government in the early hours of yesterday demolished the property. The state government chose midnight for the demolition exercise to avoid a clash with Saraki’s loyalists who had been keeping a vigil in the area. In his reaction to the development, a lawyer and public affairs analyst, Adebayo Dada said: “It is obvious that the Mohammed Lawal element have hijacked the government and are exacting revenge for perceived wrong of 2003. Is the location good for secretariat? Is the new secretariat built by former Governor AbdulFatah put to use?” “Recent Government statement that some government agencies operated from rented apartments is false. No government agencies operate from rented apartments. So no new secretariat needed. “The Governor said recently that 70% of the state fund goes into payment of salaries, that means 30% is left for running of government business and infrastructure development. Base on this AA statement and couple with new minimum wages that will take salary payment to 85% he is not ready to increase percentage going into salaries,base on these fact AA is not ready to recruit new personnel, so who will occupy the new secretariat he want to build. “The Governor said the state is suffering from serious infrastructure deficits, especially roads, can’t money meant to build the new secretariat be Chanel into constructing roads across the state, especially in kwara North and South,” Dada added. 