The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is littered with many abandoned projects. These are projects started many years ago, but could not be completed by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA). DAVID ADUGE-ANI and BLESSING BATURE write on abandoned projects in the nation’s capital city. Recently, the Bauchi State governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, commended the minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, for completion of projects inherited from past administrations. Mohammed had noted that all the projects started during his tenure as the FCT minister and even those started by his predecessors are being continued by Musa Bello. The governor, who is the immediate past FCT minister, described the Musa Bello as a gentleman and a transparent public servant he has ever seen in life, adding that if every other minister is like him, then there wouldn’t have been any abandoned project in the country. “I am personally happy with the caliber and the capacity of the FCT minister. The gentleman is a transparent public servant I have ever seen. If all ministers are like Bello, then there wouldn’t have been abandoned project in the country. Irrespective of what anybody will say, I raise my hands for the current FCT minister, Malam Musa Bello for giving definite dynamism and continuity in the system. All the projects started by me and my predecessors are being continued by the minister.” However, despite this accolade from the Bauchi State governor, it is obvious that the FCT has a number of abandoned and uncompleted projects. Some these projects include, the Millennium Tower and Cultural Centre project, the Abuja Film Village project, Abuja Technology Village Science and Technology Park (STP), Utako General Hospital, Nyanya Terminal, Abuja BRT project and the Area 3 Sports Arena, among others. The Millennium Tower and Cultural Centre project is one of the projects in the Central District of Nigeria capital city of Abuja. At 170 metres (560 ft), it is the tallest artificial structure in Abuja. The tower was designed by Manfredi Nicoletti and is part of the Nigeria National Complex which also includes the Nigerian Cultural Centre, an eight-storey, low rise, pyramid shaped Cultural Centre. Construction for the tower started in 2006 and was topped out in 2014 whilst the cultural centre is still under construction. LEADERSHIP gathered that the design and construction of the cultural centre and Millennium Tower project was awarded on 17th November 2005 to M/S Salini Nig. Limited at the contract sum of N69billion. As at December 2018, only about N1.1 billion of the contract sum has been paid due to funding problems, as a result of inadequate budgetary provisions to pay for work already executed, which stands at about 40 per cent.  This has led to suspension of work. The public relations officer (PRO), Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) said that the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) is exploring all available opportunities for increased budgetary appropriations in order to take the project to a level that will be attractive to go for a PPP option to complete. The Abuja Film Village Project is an initiative of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to make the city of Abuja, and by extension Nigeria, the centre of film and entertainment excellence. The Abuja Film Village International (AFVI) Ltd, a Public Private Partnership (PPP) initiative of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) initiated under the then FCT Minister, Aliyu Modibbo Umar,  was envisioned to make the city of Abuja, and by extension, Nigeria, a one-stop-shop for entertainment and film making. AFVI envisions and aims at making Abuja a “World Center of Film and Entertainment Excellence!” and plans to establish an ultra-modern Filmmaking and Entertainment Village in Abuja. It also seeks to complement other entities similar to some of its components in our country of 140 million people. AFVI plans to provide a place where filmmakers from Nigeria and all over the world can come for Pre-production Planning, Production, Post Production and the Premiering of their films. It also aims to help raise the professional know-how of the Nigerian film industry in all its aspects, and thereby improve on its overall quality, with the goal to maximize its capacity to earn from its products both at home and abroad. Our reporter gathered that despite the millions of naira invested in the project, there is nothing on ground to show or confirm that their dream of having an entertainment spot in the federal capital will come true. Abuja Technology Village Science and Technology Park (STP) and Special Economic Zone (SEZ) is located in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The STP is poised to become Africa’s preferred destination for technology research, incubation, development and commercialisation across four focus sectors of Information and Communication Technology, Biotechnology, Minerals Technology and Energy Technology. The park offers a balanced lifestyle environment for business operations with competitive advantage, access to Africa’s largest consumer market, proximity to every part of Nigeria for easy access to key global destinations. Abuja Technology Village presents a unique opportunity to develop a very strong knowledge base that will contribute to reducing Nigeria’s economic dependence on hydrocarbon resources and to consistent national development agenda of Job Creation and Wealth Generation. The project site, where primary infrastructure construction works are in an advanced stage, is strategically located adjacent the Nelson Mandela Institution’s African University of Science and Technology and close to other Science and Technology Institutions. The institutions collectively create a huge economic cluster along a prospective ‘superhighway’ connecting the Abuja City Centre and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport. The Abuja Technology Village master plan sets out to create an environment built to the highest global standards of design, construction and sustainability. Key to this concept is the development of commercial, retail, mixed-use and residential facilities within a sizeable Green Space setting. The Green Space comprises natural vegetation and habitats as well as contemporary urban landscape features encompassing outdoor recreational facilities. However, despite the huge investment into this project, the village is yet to take off. The Utako General Hospital is a hospital project initiated to provide healthcare to residents of Utako, Jabi and its environs. Our reporter gathered that despite the millions of naira committed to the project, the project has been abandoned because the contract is under litigation, while efforts are ongoing to settle the legal issues in order to continue the project. Worried by the number of abandoned projects in the FCT, the FCTA recently said that it would adopt the option of Public, Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement to complete some of the identified projects. Speaking during a visit to Kuje area council, FCT minister of state, Dr. Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu, expressed shock at the number of uncompleted and abandoned projects in the area councils of the territory. A staff of the administration, who did not want his name mentioned in the story told LEADERSHIP that the number of projects abandoned and uncompleted in the FCT had increased in recent times, because of low budgetary allocations to the administration in recent years. 