Governor of Imo State, Senator Hope Uzodinma has assured members of the State House of Assembly that he will collaborate with them to see that all the arms of government work in unison for the progress of the state. The governor, while receiving eight members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) assured them of his support and cooperation. “I assure you that I will do my best not to disappoint you, I will not betray the confidence, I will work hard to justify this trust you have exhibited. Working together, I’m sure that our people will be better for it,” he added. Governor Uzodinma reiterated that political party is a vehicle to get to a particular destination, promising that “APC vehicle will take the state faster to her desired destination.” He assured the defectors that they would be treated as equals in the party, noting that most of them were founding members of the party who left recently as a result of the crisis that rocked the party in the state before the general elections. While commending the speaker, Hon Chiji Collins for placing trust in him and towing the path of progress, the governor expressed happiness that he can now “beat his chest boldly and courageously that Imo is an APC state.” On his mission of making Imo a gateway of APC to the South East, the governor said: “We will do our best to strengthen the party and take the message of this party to our neighbouring states. By so doing, we would have completely re-integrated South East into the national polity. As political leaders, we have a responsibility to go out to ensure that what belongs to our people from the national table comes to our people.” Responding, on behalf of the 19 APC lawmakers, the speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly, Hon. Chiji Collins thanked the governor for his open-mindedness, promising that the 9th Assembly will always complement the efforts of the state government. It would be recalled that earlier at plenary in Imo State Assembly, eight PDP members including the Speaker defected to the ruling party, APC, thus enabling it to control the House leadership