Justice Othman Musa, of High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Bwari, has dismissed a suit seeking an order of court to remove the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege from office. Senator Omo-Agege is representing Delta Central Senatorial District in the National Assembly. The suit was instituted by the Incorporated Trustees of Patriotic Youth Organisation of Nigeria. Respondents in the suit are Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondents respectively. In his judgement in the suit, Justice Musa dismissed all the reliefs sought by the plaintiff. The court held that Omo-Agege (1st defendant) was not under any obligation to inform INEC (3rd defendant) in his INEC Forms CF001 relating to whether he has been under a sentence of imprisonment or conviction for offence involving dishonesty and/or fraud. Justice Musa observed from a judgement of the California court delivered on March 12, 1996, exhibited by Omo-Agege, that the charge was dismissed, pointing out that “it does not mean conviction.” “Dismissing the charge against the 1st defendant does not mean conviction. The 1st defendant has not been found guilty and has not been convicted,” the court held. Justice Musa said the report of judicial commission of enquiry against the 1st defendant “Is not the same as an order of court of law.” The court opined that a report of judicial commission of enquiry only enables a court of law to ascertain the culpability or otherwise of a public officer where a case of professional misconduct is alleged. Consequently, the court from affidavit evidence tendered by the 1st defendant, held that Omo-Agege has not been convicted by any competent court of law. The court insisted that the order of a Californian court did not amount to an indictment on the part of Omo-Agege. Having dismissed all the reliefs sought by the claimant, Justice Musa awarded a cost of N1 million against the claimant, in favour of the 1st defendant. In the suit, the plaintiff prayed the court to grant the following reliefs. “A declaration that the 1st Defendant gave and/or supplied false information to the 3rd Defendant in his INEC Forms CF001 relating to whether he has been under a sentence of imprisonment or conviction for offences involving dishonesty and/or fraud by his deliberate failure to disclose that he was/is under a sentence of imprisonment or conviction for criminal offence of felony involving moral turpitude by violating Section 470 of the California Penal Code  under the authority of subsection (a) Rule 951, of the California Rules of Court in the United States of America in Case No: 94:C:14401. “A declaration that the act and/or conduct of the 1st Defendant in giving and/or supplying false information to the 3rd Defendant in his INEC Forms CF001 by stating under oath that he was/is not under a sentence of imprisonment or conviction for offence involving dishonesty and/or fraud whereas he been convicted of criminal offence of felony involving moral turpitude by violating Section 470 of the California Penal Code  under the authority of subsection (a) Rule 951, of the California Rules of Court in the United States of America in Case No: 94:C:14401, amounted to giving false information to the 3rd Defendant as well as an act of perjury. “A declaration that giving and/or supplying false information under oath in his INEC Forms CF001 to the 3rd Defendant, the 1st Defendant has acted in contravention of, breached and/or violated the mandatory provisions of Section 31(5) and (6) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and therefore not qualified to be nominated and/or elected into the Senate of the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at the 2019 General Elections. “A declaration that by the act or conduct of the 1st Defendant in stating under oath that he was/is not under a sentence of imprisonment or conviction for offence involving dishonesty and/or fraud whereas he been convicted of criminal offence of felony involving moral turpitude by violating Section 470 of the California Penal Code  under the authority of subsection (a) Rule 951, of the California Rules of Court in the United States of America in Case No: 94:C:14401, the 1st Defendant is ipso facto disqualified for election into the Senate of the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria at the 2019 General Elections as well as ineligible to contest for, be nominated and/or seek an election into the principal position of the Deputy President of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as a result thereof. “A declaration that the 2nd Defendant has the mandatory statutory and prosecutorial obligation to undertake criminal proceedings for the prosecution of the 1st Defendant for offences of perjury and/or giving of false information following his conviction for criminal offence of felony involving moral turpitude by violating Section 470 of the California Penal Code under the authority of subsection (a) Rule 951, of the California Rules of Court in the United States of America in Case No: 94:C:14401. An order of injunction restraining the 1st Defendant, by himself, agents, servants, privies or howsoever described from further parading or in any other manner whatsoever holding out himself as being qualified to contest for election into the Senate of the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and from exercising any power or function pertaining to the office of the Deputy President of the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “An order of mandatory injunction directing the 3rd Defendant, by itself, agents, servants, privies or howsoever described to cancel and/or withdraw the Certificate of Return issued to the 1st Defendant forthwith. “An order of mandatory injunction directing and compelling the 2nd Defendant, by itself, agents, servants, privies or howsoever described to prosecute the 1st Defendant for offences of perjury and/or false information following his conviction for criminal offence of felony involving moral turpitude by violating Section 470 of the California Penal Code under the authority of subsection (a) Rule 951, of the California Rules of Court in the United States of America in Case No: 94:C:14401.”