Speaker of the House of Representatives,  Femi Gbajabiamila , and his deputy, Ahmed Idris Wase, has eulogised the president of the senate,  Dr. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, on the occasion of his 61st birthday anniversary. Gbajabiamila said Lawan, who has been in the national assembly since 1999 serving first in the house and later in the senate, is one Nigerian that has actively contributed to the development of the country’s legislature. In a congratulatory message personally signed by him in Abuja on Saturday, the speaker recalled the valuable contributions of the senate president while he served as a member of the house and later as a non-presiding officer in the senate. He said Lawan has been a worthy ally in the onerous task of “building the Nigeria of our dream,” particularly since his emergence as the president of the 9th senate. “President of the senate, distinguished Senator (Dr) Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, is a man of honour. I have known him for close to two decades now, and in all the years we have been together, he has exhibited a high level of patriotism. “Senator Lawan has a passion for good governance, and at every opportunity, he has proven himself to be one of the best legislators around. No wonder he was unequivocally chosen by his colleagues to be the president of the 9th senate. “I know that together, we will provide good leadership for the 9th national assembly, which will take Nigeria to enviable heights in the near future. “On this day of his 61st birthday, I wish him Allah’s continuous protection and blessings. I also wish him many more years in good health,” the speaker said. Lawan, who became the president of the 9th senate on June 11, 2019, the same day Gbajabiamila was elected as speaker, was born on January 12, 1959. In the same vein,  the deputy speaker described  Ahmad Lawan, as a patriotic lawmaker, whose love for the nation is unquestionable. Wase gave this description in a statement signed by his chief press secretary, Umar Muhammad Puma. He said Lawan is one of the best senate president the country has ever produced as his tenure, though just six months old has witnessed landmark achievements in the parliament. “The senate president, distinguished Senator Ahmad Lawan is a lawmaker per excellence whose wealth of experience has impacted positively on the 9th national assembly. He is indeed one of the best senate presidents since 1999. “As the highest ranking lawmaker in the national assembly, having been in the house of representatives between 1999 and 2003 and senate, from 2003 to date, he has exuded uncanny patriotism in the pursuit of national interest, unity of purpose and the drive in making laws that would stand the test of time.’’ The deputy speaker however,  wished  Lawan good health, wisdom and God’s protection as he marks his 61st birthday adding that, “ his ascension to the position of senate president at this time in the history of the nation was a divine plan of God to use his leadership skills to partner with the executive for accelerated development of Nigeria. “Since his election as senate president, the distinguished Senator Ahmad Lawan has brought stability to the parliament due to his mature and adept leadership style.”