As the removal of Chief Emeka Ihedioha as Imo State governor by the Supreme Court continues to evoke consternation across Nigeria, it has been observed that the apex court failed to do fool-proof mathematical computation of the results of votes cast at the election, but relied only on the data supplied by his rival, Sen. Hope Uzodinma, to declare the latter the duly-elected governor of Imo State. Our correspondent, who obtained a copy of the certified-true-copy of the record of the appeal filed at the Supreme Court by Uzodinma and the All Progressives Congress (APC), which was issued by Nwana Ejike, registrar of the Court of Appeal, Owerri, from an earlier record compiled by Ibrahim Garba, secretary of the Imo State Election Petition Tribunal, observed that there were obvious mathematical and factual inconsistencies which the apex court waved aside. LEADERSHIP recalls that at the Tribunal, Uzodinma had, from pages 9 to 27 of his petition, drawn a table of votes allocation which he claimed were the figures obtained from the duplicate copies of Forms EC8A handed over to his party agents at the 388 polling units, the results of which were excluded in the overall result of the election. From the table he compiled from the 388 polling units, there were 252,452 registered voters who gave the APC 213,695 votes, and 1,903 to Ihedioha, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The table did not indicate the total number of accredited voters, nor the number of invalid votes, if any, and the votes allocated to the remaining 68 candidates that contested the election, aside from Uzodinma and Ihedioha. However, an analysis of the duplicate Forms EC8A tendered by PW54, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Rabiu Hussein, there were no fewer than six polling units where more votes were recorded above the registered voters. For instance, on figure number 69 which showed votes cast at Eziama/Okpala (Umualum Village Square, Eziama), the total registered voters was put at 492, whereas the table showed that the APC scored 819 votes and PDP seven votes, providing 334 more votes than the registered voters, even without including the votes polled by the other candidates at the election. Also, on page 22 of the petition referencing polling unit 282, the number of registered voters was put at 591, whereas the tabulation showed that APC polled 586 votes and PDP 9 votes, with a total of 4 votes more than the registered voters, minus the votes scored by the 68 other candidates. Similarly, at the same page 22 of the record, polling unit 285 (Obudi/Aro, Central Assembly Square, Unusable 11) with 449 registered voters, APC was credited with 780 votes and PDP with 4 votes – a total of 335 votes above the actual total registered voters at the unit, plus that not all registered voters do accreditation,  and not even all accredited voters actually cast their ballot. And of course, there is the issue of voided votes. In addition, figures obtained from page 79 of the record of appeal under item 384,the  APC scored 526 votes, while PDP was credited with 2 votes. The total votes cast totalled 526, which is two votes above the total number of registered voters in the area. Unsurprisingly, both the Election Petition Tribunal and the Appeal Court dismissed the petition for lacking in merit But in a unanimous judgment delivered on 14th January and the 45-page judgment read by Justice Kudirat Motonmori Olatokunmbo Kekere-Ekun, the Supreme Court upturned the two lower courts’ decisions and declared Sen. Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as duly-elected governor of Imo State. The court said that votes from the disputed 388 polling units were wrongly excluded from the scores ascribed to Sen. Uzodinma, which was then added. By relying on the faulty tabulation made by Uzodinma, the Supreme Court arrived at a figure of 950,952 votes, which is more than the 823,743 votes cast in the election, leading to 127,209 excess votes as affirmed by the Supreme Court. It was also noticed that the Supreme Court avoided mentioning figures or votes cast in the judgment obtained by our correspondent, yet decided on disputed figures. In the second order made in the judgment, Justice Kekere-Ekun simply declared: “It is hereby ordered that the appellant’s votes from the 388 polling units unlawfully excluded from the appellants’ score shall be added to the figure declared by the 3rd respondent (INEC)” and orders that he be immediately sworn in.