A group under the auspices of Plateau Youths G17 Peace and Progressive Forum have staged a peaceful procession to demand the urgent release of Plateau youths who are languishing in Boko Haram custody in the North East. The youths which cuts across the 17 Local Government Areas (LGA’s) of the state and Southern Kaduna described the execution of a 200-level student of University of Maiduguri, Ropvil Daciya, who hailed from Plateau as an attack on Christians in Plateau. John Baling, spokesman of the G17 urged federal government to facilitate the release of Bashiru Abdulhamid, a health worker and Miss Lilian Gyang, a 100-Level student of University of Maiduguri that are wallowing in Boko Haram captivity. “President Muhammadu Buhari must take responsibility for every act of negligence on the part of those appointed to provide leadership and direction to the nation’s security forces and should therefore sanction non-performance by the military high Command as their failure to guarantee the safety of citizens can no longer be rewarded with lengthy or prolonged stay in office”. “The country is brought to its knees by a free ranging band of terrorist. We join all other well-meaning and patriotic Nigerians to call on Mr. President to immediately overhaul the nation’s security apparatus by sacking this present crop of non-performing service chiefs”. “We call on government at the state and federal levels to act now and act decisively in doing everything possible to secure the release of Bashir and Lilian as well as all other abducted citizens from different parts of the country.” The youths demanded that federal government should take urgent steps in securing all federal roads and communities in the country particularly those within the North East. “As citizens, we are registering our discontent, concerns and grievances to the Plateau State and federal government respectively and request that comprehensive measures should urgently be put in place to secure all Plateau State citizens that are schooling in Maiduguri”. “Government should consider redeploying the students to sister polytechnics, universities and colleges of education in and around Plateau State.” The youths noted that State and federal government should not take the threats issued by Boko Haram on Christians from Plateau State for granted and proactive measures should be put in place to avoid any further escalation and brutal killings of citizens on any part of the country.” Also, the members representing Jos South/Jos East and Mangu-Bokkos Federal Constituencies of Plateau State in the House of Representatives, Hon. Dachung Musa Bagos and Hon. Solomon Maren, who joined the youths on the procession urged federal government to collaborate with security agencies for the release of those still in captivity and guarantee safety of corps members, students and people in North East.