Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors Forum and Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal, yesterday declared that PDP governors are in support of Hon Emeka Ihedioha’s decision to approach the Supreme Court for a review of its verdict on the Imo State which removed him from office. Tambuwal who stated this while speaking with newsmen at the PDP national secretariat, stated that they are very sure that by the time the Supreme Court really takes a second look at the matter, there may be some change in its position. Ihedioha last week initiated moves to approach the Supreme Court to seek a review over its verdict which removed him as governor and installed Hope Uzodinma, the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, governor of the state. But reacting to a question over the issue, Tambuwal said, “Of course, I can confirm to you that Rt. Hon Emeka Ihedioha is re-approaching the Supreme Court for a review of the last judgement on Imo election and we are all ready to support him and back him as a party and as a Forum. “We are very sure that by the time the Supreme Court really takes a second look at the matter, there may be some change in its position. “So we are praying hard we are working hard to get what has not been properly delivered in terms of justice in that matter and that it is addressed.” Speaking also on the security situation in the North, he said the PDP wont play politics with security of the country. “Well I can assure you that all of us in the PDP will continue to work on the issue of insecurity. We don’t play politics with security, there is no party when you come to talk about security, it is every bodies concern, all of us are really involved in it. “We will be supportive of security agencies in our respective states in ensuring that we achieve everlasting peace and stability in our respective states and the entire federation. “So we will continue in that regard and we will continue to corporate with the federal government to come up with new ideas, new approach especially when you talk about deploying technology and bringing more capable  hands to ensure that we reverse the trend,” he added.