Following the move to increase the salary of political class, the leadership of Trade Union Congress (TUC) has condemned the move. TUC in statement made available to journalists the President, Comrade Quadri Olaleye stated that the association read with consternation the plan by the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission to review the remuneration of political office holders at a time the local and foreign debt is overwhelming and the country grappling with a lot of economic issues. According to him, this is a conspiracy that must not be allowed to stand because of the dire consequences it will further have on the economy, people and our collective image. ‘’Does it mean the Federal Government increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) to raise money to pay the politicians? Some countries in Africa now have a unicameral legislature because their former system was eating deep into the national treasury. Why can’t we think along that line, after all, we have a National Assembly that you could hardly see all the members seated at every session. “It is the same thing at the state level, yet their absence has never disturbed any session. Imagine a Councillors with Ordinary Level result earns higher than a University Professors? It is only in Nigeria that ex-governors who served two terms will retire to the senate yet earn pension from the state. It is only in Nigeria that ex-governors that are jailed for corruption collect salaries and other allowances. This is preposterous and it makes mockery of our system.” The union argued that the country cannot be saddled with such burden at a time report had it that the Federal Government has borrowed $29. 9b it applied for hiking the nation’s total debt profile to about $84b. ‘’ Even the World Bank has warned about the danger and consequences of our debt yet it appears no one cares if the country goes further down in shame. The question is, why tax or borrow just to pay politicians and service cronies when over 21 percent of our able bodied youths are unemployed? We are worried that the insecurity situation arising from unemployment does not bother them?’’