The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) has called on contractors handling projects for the ministry to ensure they deliver value for money on all infrastructure contracts. Permanent secretary, in the Ministry, Dr Abdulkadir Mua’zu who gave this charge yesterday at an interactive meeting with 2019 Department of Rural Development contractors, said it is disturbing that despite the billions of naira expended on projects each year, the quality of projects delivered has been nothing to write home about. According to the perm sec, the level of poor quality of projects execution experienced in previous works, goods and consultancy contracts emanating from the use of substandard materials, unqualified personnel and compromised specification is simply appalling. He said it was in view of this that the ministry organised the meeting to sensitise the contractors on the need to adhere strictly to set standards, quality of work delivery and to abide by the rules of the game. In his words: “Contractors nowadays no longer pay strict adherence to quality and standard of project delivery, terms and conditions of contracts, timely submission of all the necessary and required documents according to the contracts specifications and employment of the services of qualified and experienced personnel for proper contract execution.” Mua’zu said it is only when contracts are delivered according to specifications that the people can enjoy the dividends of democracy. While inviting the contractors to be open during the interactive meeting, Mua’zu informed them that they should express themselves freely as that will help the ministry to know where it is also getting it wrong and make amends. “My position is that no contractor should be given a contract if government cannot pay,” he said. “But if you are given a job, do it well, if you do it well, we will pay. If there are issues, please let us know. If people harass you before payment, let us know, we will deal with whoever it is. “Note that most of the funds that are used for these contracts are borrowed and would be paid by our children and grandchildren. Please let us deliver value.”