Last year, the House of Representatives called for the abolition of ‘acceptance fee’ paid by candidates offered admission into Nigerian tertiary institutions. During the debate on the motion he initiated, Imo lawmaker, Emeka Chinedu, pointed out that the high non-refundable acceptance fee charged students contributed in limiting their access to tertiary education. Universities with high acceptance fees include University of Benin which collects N80,000 from those seeking to study science courses and N60,000 from others in the 2019/2020 session; Imo State University, N60,000-N70,000; Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike, N50,500; Ado Bayero University,  Kano, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, N47,000; N43,500;  Federal University of Technology,  Owerri, N42,000; University of Abuja, N42, 000, and University of Ibadan, N35,000. Those whose acceptance fees are on the lower scale include Federal University Dutsinma and Federal University Lokoja with N10,000 apiece. However, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi and Federal University Kashere in Gombe charge no acceptance fees at all. Alongside these outrageous acceptance fees, these universities still charge other inexplicable fees under various subheadings such as registration fee, admission processing fee, ICT levy, faculty /departmental fees, development levy, late registration fee and so on, including municipal fee, whatever that means. As a result, candidates who paid the N80,000 acceptance fee at the University of Benin are also required to cough out another N73,400 as registration fee for those studying science-based courses and N69,900 for those in other disciplines. Students of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, pay N90,000 as registration fees on top of N47,000 acceptance fee, plus N25,000 faculty and department levy. At Imo State University, after paying N60,000-N70,000 as acceptance fee, parents are also to pay N73,400 registration fee for their wards studying science courses and N69,900 for other courses. At the University of Calabar, students said they were required to pay between N35, 500 and N42, 750 depending on their course of study, as registration fee, in addition to paying admission processing fee as well as acceptance fee, among others. But what is the meaning of acceptance fee? The differing explanations given by university officials point to the fact that acceptance fee is just another means by university management to pile more financial burden on parents. Some officials say it is financial commitment meant to elicit confirmation from prospective candidates that they have accepted the admission offered them and are willing to proceed with registration and other entrance procedures. But why should candidates be forced to pay such exorbitant figures just to ‘accept’ to take up the same university admission which they had desired and gone through all the necessary and gruelling processes to get? That makes the second explanation more plausible – that the fee is meant to beef up the institutions’ revenue profile, some kind of internally generated revenue, to help them meet obligations not catered for by budgetary allocations from government. What is worrying is that, while parents are already groaning under this payment, some universities have recently hiked the levy to the chagrin of parents. Michael Okpara University and University of Abuja recently jacked up their acceptance fees by 300 and 150 per cent. What this means is that whenever university authorities feel like it, they can just charge students under any heading, not minding the harm it causes to the efforts of many youths to get an education. We wish to state that acceptance fee is one burden too many for parents seeking to educate their children in Nigerian public universities. The fees are piling huge financial burden on parents, some of whom are public servants who have up to three or four children at the university at a time. The laws establishing the country’s federal universities stipulate that they are tuition-free for Nigerians; however, foreign students are required to pay tuition fees among other charges. The intendment must have been to make university education accessible to most Nigerians. A casual look at the remuneration of public servants would suggest that most civil servants, even those at the senior cadre, will find it extremely tough to pay for their children’s education in public institutions; private universities are even worse due to their outrageous fees. As a newspaper, we align with the House of Representatives which unanimously passed a motion calling for the abolition of acceptance fees. The House also mandated the House Committee on Tertiary Education and Services to investigate the admission practices of tertiary institutions in the country as they relate to the charge of acceptance fees in order to remove all obstacles to accessing tertiary education in the country. They should go the extra mile to probe into all the fees charged students of public universities with a view to abolishing extraneous charges. They should also allocate more funds to the education sector, especially to the university system, during the annual appropriation cycle in order to avoid universities overcharging students in order to make ends meet. The universities should also think of more creative ways of raise funds, rather than through such inexplicable and untenable charges.