Moody’s Investors Service said the minimum requirement of 65 per cent Loan to Deposit Ratio (LDR) would be a credit negative for Nigerian banks who have to increase their loan books by over N690 billion as they race to meet the target by March this year. Speaking during an interview on CNBC Africa, Banking Analyst at Moody’s, Peter Mushangwe, said Nigerian banks will potentially make riskier loans to meet the LDR target by March. He noted that Moody’ is of the view that the LDR requirement of 65 per cent is credit negative for banks because it will force them to make potential risk in a challenging environment. “It will also increase banks cost of funding and we believe that the risks will outweigh any potential benefits that the banks may earn from growing their loan books,” he said. “Nigerian operating environment remains difficult because of the challenging economic environment. We expect GDP growth of just about two per cent in the next few years so this will drain banks assets quality going forward.” Noting that the impact on NPLs will not be immediate, he said it is estimated that the banks will have to increase their loans by about N690 billion which is about five per cent of loans from October. “This is a substantial fall-in of untested loans in a short period of time. Given the difficult economic environment, the collectability of loans repayment in the future say in 18 months will likely come under pressure particularly if the economic conditions do not improve meaningfully. “This will of course slow down the assets quality improvement which we witnessed in 2019. With NPL ratio improving to just 6.7 in September 2019 from 11.7 at year end 2018. In the long term this is what we expect to play out but in the short term the NPL ratio may actually benefit from an enlarged denominator. But as indicated problem typically develop over a period of multiple quarters. “The cost of deposit will also be negatively impacted, I will expect the 50 per cent CRR penalty that will be imposed on deposit equal to the lending shortfall to put upward pressure on banks cost of funding. Firstly the CRR 50 per cent penalty will increase the banks effective cash requirement to higher than the official 22.5 per cent. “We estimate that the effective CRR in the system is between 30 and 35 per cent. A higher CRR increases the effective rate that banks place on deposits. Secondly some banks deposits are sterilised and this will likely increase competition for deposits and again this will put upward pressure on interest rates that banks pay on their deposits. 