The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has announced the shortlisting of a total of 162,399 for aptitude for employment into the Service. 828,333 people applied for the Customs job. The shortlisted figure is far below what the agency said it was going to take in the per-recruitment exercise. Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Gamers Ali had in April of 2019 announced that 3,200 officers and men would be recruited to fill existing vacancies. Spokesman of the Nigeria Customs, Joseph Attach failed to give reason for the cut in the planned rate of new recruitment for the positions. The NCS in a statement that was issued on Monday said the shortlisted folks have been contacted with details of the test that will be conducted on a date it failed to announce in the press release. “After a painstaking short-listing process, a total of 162,399 have been short-listed out of 828,333 candidates that applied,” Mr. Joseph said in the statement that was made available to journalists this Monday. “In-line with our earlier stated guideline, those shortlisted are being notified via their e-mail addresses and telephone numbers. “Consequently, all those notified will do their aptitude tests at a date and centre indicated in their respective notification slips, they are expected to print from their e-mail account.” The statement claimed that internet fraudsters have been attempting to hack and discredit the recruitment process. The statement quoted Mr. Ali of assuring his determination to preside over a recruitment process that will be credible, transparent and smooth from the beginning to the end. It restated that the NCS recruitment process requires no monetary payment, hence any such request from any quarter should be regarded as fraudulent and ignored. “All short-listed candidates coming to the centres are to come along with the notification slips and identity card. They are to be in their best behaviors and comply with all instructions during the aptitude tests as doing the contrary could lead to instant disqualification,” Attah stated.