Leaders and supporters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are on edge as the Supreme Court today decides the fate of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State and his Sokoto State counterpart Aminu Tambuwal. The apex court judgement will lay to rest the appeal filed by the PDP governorship candidate, Abba Kabir-Yusuf against the victory of Ganduje and that of Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto against Tambuwal’s election. The apprehension is fuelled by last week’s sack of Emeka Ihedioha as governor of Imo State by the apex court which replaced him with Hope Uzodinma, the APC candidate in the March 9, 2019 governorship race. The apex court had last Tuesday fixed this morning to give judgement in the two appeals. A seven-man panel led by the chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, fixed ruling for the two cases after the parties had adopted their brief of arguments. In the Sokoto governorship case where Aliyu Sokoto is challenged the election of Tambuwal, the governorship election petitions tribunal and the Court of Appeal had dismissed Aliyu’s petition and the appeal. He took his appeal to the Supreme Court, which he asked to dismiss Tambuwal’s victory and declare him the winner of that election. In Kano State, Kabir-Yusuf challenged the victory of Ganduje as the three-man panel led by Justice Halima Shamaki had upheld Ganduje as the duly elected of the state. Since the Supreme Court’s removal of Ihedioha, tension had mounted in the Kano and Sokoto with their supporters holding prayer sessions to get favourable judgement.  PDP Protests In States Over Imo, Storms Abuja Today Meanwhile, thousands of aggrieved PDP supporters yesterday trooped to the streets of Owerri, the Imo State capital to protest the removal of Ihedioha from office by the Supreme Court. The apex court had last Tuesday, January 14, 2020 removed as the governor of the state and declared Uzodinma as the winner of the governorship race in the state. The PDP had warned that there would be simultaneous protests by its members in all the states of the federation to protest the judgment and the alleged ploy by APC to use the Supreme Court to sack governors elected under its platform. However, the Imo protest involved indigenes and other Nigerians, who wore black attires to display the disgust with the judgment, which they described as strange. The protesters also included former appointees of Ihedioha, religious and community leaders, and students, who sang sorrowful songs to express their bitterness. They also bore placards with different inscriptions such as ”Reverse this injustice now, Tanko must go, and Ihedioha won landslide.” The protest, which was generally peaceful, however, led to shutting down of Owerri for hours. Security operatives were on ground with over 15 truck load of policemen to accompany the protesters to prevent any breakdown of law and order. Former chief of staff of the Government House, Chief Chris Okewulonu, told newsmen that Imo people and the world by extension were still in shock at the sudden removal of Ihedioha, after he won with majority of the vote cast in the election. He said: ”We were all in shock when on the 14th of January, 2020, the Supreme Court reversed the judgement and awarded victory to the APC candidate. The judgement was not in consonant with the arguments in court and did not reflect the election that took place in Imo State on March 9 last year. We are all Imo people and participated in the election and noticed that Ihedioha clearly won the election.” According to him, the apex court did not devote time to study the facts, claiming that ”we discovered that initially the Supreme Court did not devote much time to hear the matter. We deduced that there was some funny movements. Our fears were confirmed when on the day of judgement, the Supreme Court went on break and resumed about 4pm and delivered a judgment which was highly compromised.” Okewulonu, therefore, called on the Supreme Court to reverse the judgment, saying that ”that it happened in the where apex court reversed itself. They should quickly reconvene and do justice to the matter. There are a number of instances where the Supreme Court realized that it made mistakes and reconvened to do justice to the matter. The most important thing is the interest of the people of the state.” One of the protesters who gave her name as Mrs Okere said that she and her group joined the demonstration because the judgment was a rape on the people and their collective desires. In compliance with directive of the PDP national secretariat, members of the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the party, yesterday, embarked on a peaceful protest against the Supreme Court Judgment’s removal of Ihedioha. The party faithful from the 329 wards in the state arrived at the PDP state secretariat located at 113 Edet Akpan Avenue, Uyo, where they kicked of the protest. The party’s state publicity secretary, Ini Ememobong and the chairman, Obong Paul Ekpo, accompanied by members of the State Working Committee (SWC) and other stakeholders spearheaded the rally.. In his address, Ekpo said that democracy should be strengthened and its institutions in Nigeria must not be compromised. He said: “That is the message we are passing as a sister state to Imo State. The judgement of the Supreme Court on the governorship election in Imo State stands condemned. “I will take the message of Akwa Ibom people to the national leadership of the PDP. Akwa Ibom State shares in the pain of Imo State,” Ekpo said. Similar protests were held in other states, especially those controlled by the PDP. The party plans to take the demonstration to Abuja, the nation’s capital today.  Accept Supreme Court Verdict, Uzodinma Tells Ihedioha Amidst the protest, Governor Uzodinma has called on Ihedioha to accept the judgment of the Supreme Court in good faith and stop politicising the issue. Uzodinma made the appeal through his chief press secretary, Oguwike Nwachukwu. He said that the PDP should not be selective but should always accept court judgements, not only when it favoured them. The governor said that the protest in Owerri was borne out of fear over the remaining cases before the Supreme Court, declaring that the court cannot reverse itself. He said: ”The protest is not against Governor Hope Uzodinma. It is borne out of fear for the remaining cases at the apex court. They are scared of losing more states. Imo people have lauded the emergence of the new governor, meaning we have moved on as a state and a people.” Nwachukwu said that already the PDP presidential candidate in the last year’s election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, had called on Ihedioha to accept the verdict and move on. He further said that Ihedioha in a statement had announced his decision to abide by the verdict of the apex court and queried the rationale behind the protest.  Bauchi Politicians Spend Sleepless Nights In Worship Centres In Bauchi State,politicians and other stakeholders are spending sleepless nights in worship centres  as they await the Supreme Court verdict on the governorship election today. In the past one week, supporters and members of the PDP and the APC have been expressing optimism on the outcome of the election dispute. The level of anxiety and optimism by both sides is being reflected on daily basis in political programmes aired by radio stations across the state. Alhaji Uba Nana, the state chairman of the APC told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that his party had embarked on a prayer session ahead of the Supreme Court verdict. Nana, who reserved all comments till after the judgement, said that the party was hoping for a successful outcome at the apex court. “We are reserving our comments until after the verdict on Monday; we have nothing much to say but I can tell you that we are very prayerful now. We are in prayers and hoping for a successful outcome at the Supreme Court,” Nana said. The publicity secretary of the state PDP, Alhaji Yayanuwa Zainabari, said that his party had absolute trust in the Supreme Court and believed that justice would not only be done, but would be seen to have been done. He said: “As it is now, the judiciary is the only hope of upholding the mandate given to Governor Bala Mohammad by the people of Bauchi State. “We have the trust that the court would do justice in its judgement; we have no fear at all and just as we won the election without rigging, by God’s grace, we will have course to celebrate,” he said. A member of one of the parties, who pleaded for anonymous, told NAN that in an event of their losing at the apex court, he and others had decided to leave Bauchi. “The tension is so palpable and expectations for success are very high; we cannot withstand losing out because the embarrassment will be enormous; we will rather leave in an event of failure at the Supreme Court,” he vowed. Meanwhile, some politicians in the state had resorted to spending their nights in the mosque, praying to God to grant their parties victory at the apex court. A prominent politician in Bauchi, who confirmed the development to NAN on condition of anonymity, said that because of the dicey situation at hand, himself and others were not willing to take chances. “Some of us resolved to leave the comfort of our bedrooms and turn to God for salvation. We stay overnight in the mosque praying because, as Muslims, we know that All Mighty Allah often grants requests pleaded for during late night,” he revealed. Governor Bala Mohammed had told newsmen shortly after his victory at the Appeal Court in Jos, Plateau State that he could not sleep a day to the Jos verdict. The governor is now in the United Kingdom on medical check-up, according to an earlier statement issued by his media aide, Muktar Gidado. However, DSP Kamal Abubakar, the state’s police command public relations officer, has said that the command was on top of the situation as it had taken adequate measures to prevent the breakdown of law and order after the verdict. He said that security men in all strategic locations within the state had been placed on the alert, adding that the command had also invited stakeholders of both parties for a dialogue.  PDP Blasts APC Govs, Says They Are Products Of Manipulation Also yesterday, the PDP national secretariat said that the reason APC governors were standing alone in defence of the judgment of the Supreme Court on Imo governorship election was because many of them were products of huge electoral manipulations. The opposition party said that the APC governors’ attempt at cheap blackmail would never stop the PDP and millions of Nigerians from the demand for the review and reversal of the judgment in which the Supreme Court manufactured and donated fictitious votes to name a 4th position candidate the winner of the Imo election. The party’s national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, made the assertion in a statement when he reacted to the APC governors’ commendation of the Supreme Court judgement on Imo State. He said: ”It is rather not surprising to many that the APC governors could allow themselves to be enlisted to haul insults at the PDP with a view to blur and distort this grave miscarriage of justice because many of them are products and beneficiaries of electoral manipulations. ”The APC governors’ part in this script appears very glaring. Of course, who else will the flies support except a person with open smelly sore? This is also why APC governors are encouraging their party to engage in underhand measures and supporting injustice instead of following democratic processes. ”In comparing the Imo State judgment to that of Zamfara and Rivers States governorship elections, the APC governors forgot that Nigerians are abreast of the facts. The APC governors deliberately veiled the fact that they lost Zamfara and Rivers as a result of their internal wrangling over their failure to conduct a credible primary, which voided their votes and left the party with the second highest number of votes as the winner. ”This is different from the judgment on Imo where fictitious votes were manufactured by the Supreme Court and donated to the APC to lift it from the fourth position and declared winner. ”In making their plea for the rejected judgment, the APC governors should explain to Nigerians how the Supreme Court, in its bid to award votes to APC, ended up declaring a total valid vote of 950,952 votes above the INEC’s official 823,743 total number of accredited voters for the election,” he said.