For the first three months of this year, the federal government will subsidise for all consumers the hike in electricity tariff announced recently by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). And after an initial rebuttal of media reports of the increase in tariff, NERC has admitted that it carried out a minor review which it is mandated by law to do periodically, after taking into cognisance the dynamics of all the macroeconomic indices. The commission, however, said that the tariff hike captured in the review would not be with immediate effect. NERC chairman, Prof. James Momoh, stated this yesterday when he responded to questions from newsmen during a press conference held at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja. The briefing had focused on the forthcoming 11th edition of the biennial International Conference on Energy, Power Systems Operations and Planning (ICEPSOP), an initiative of the Howard University, United States of America (USA) with sponsorship from the National Science Foundation (NSF) also of the US, which will be hosted by NERC in Abuja. Momoh said: “We are not saying that the new tariff regime should take effect for customers to pay immediately. In the next couple of months, we will be going from place to place to engage stakeholders in our consultations, the outcome of which will determine whether there will be increase or not in the tariffs. According to him, there is no directive or order from the commission that customers are to pay any increased electricity tariff for now. The NERC boss said that the commission has plans to embark on a robust consultation with stakeholders across the country between now and March end before taking a final decision on the widely reported electricity tariff increase. NERC had disclosed in its December publication on its website of the 2019 Minor Review of the Multi- Year Tariff Order (MYTO) 2015 and the Minimum Remittance Order (MRO) for 2020 that it had approved the minor review due for December 2019 with effect from 1st January, 2020, but customers will not pay the new rates until April 2020. In the publication, the commission stated that “the federal government’s updated Power Sector Recovery Programme (PSPRP) does not envisage an immediate increase in end-users tariffs until 1st April, 2020 and a transition to full cost reflectivity by the end of 2021.” To bridge the funding gap since customers will not pay the new tariff till April, NERC in the publication dated December 31, 2019 and signed by Momoh and the commissioner for Legal, Licencing and Compliance, Dafe Akpeneye, that “in the interim, the federal government is committed to funding the revenue gap between the cost reflective tariff and the actual tariff NERC allows customers to pay.” On metering, Momoh said that the commission will do everything within its powers to ensure that all distribution companies (DisCos) meter their customers in no distant time through the Meter Assets Providers (MAPs) scheme, adding that DisCos who default will have themselves to blame as the commission was preparing to unveil a new regulation called “Capping” which fix maximum tariff for the various cadres of customers soon. Momoh said that the hosting of the forthcoming four-day conference, slated for 28th January, 2020 attracted bids from other African countries, but Nigeria, which hosted the maiden edition in 1992 in Lagos, was chosen. The theme of the forthcoming conference is: “Empowering Micro-grid with Smart-grid attribute to development.” At the event, experts from the US and Africa would converge in Nigeria to share knowledge on how to tackle the energy challenges faced by the continent. “It is an opportunity for us to discuss the issues that cause setback for countries across the African continent as regards the issues of electricity networking, stability, reliability, affordability among others that affect Nigeria, and to find solutions via critical thinking,” Momoh said. Meanwhile, the Association of Electricity Distributors (ANED) has confirmed that there will be no tariff increase for their customers till April 2020. ANED spokesman, Chief Sunday Oduntan, in a statement he issued on the tariff hike order issued to the DisCos recently by NERC, appealed to customers not to panic as they will not be made to pay any increased rate between January and March, this year Oduntan said that NERC had just reviewed the MYTO 2015 and had published an order on tariffs and Minimum Remittance for January to June, 2020, adding that the review anticipates changes in the currency exchange rates between the United States’ dollar and the naira, changes in the rate of Inflation and gas prices. He added that “the tariffs shall remain the same as they presently are (i.e. 2015 levels) until April 1, 2020 when there will be a slight increment to cater for tariff shortfalls which shall be gradually passed on to the consumer until this is fully completed by the end of 2021. “In view of the foregoing, we state emphatically that there shall be no change or increase in the existing electricity tariff until April 1, 2020 when the new adjusted tariffs shall begin to gradually reflect the dynamism of our macro-economy,” he explained. Since NERC announced the tariff hike, Nigerians have condemned it, describing it as ill-timed and unrealistic. They charged the federal government to halt the move or be ready to subsidise electricity bills for them.