The Rivers State government and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) have been locked in a battle of wits over investigations into finances of the oil rich state. ANAYO ONUKWUGHA writes. Few days ago, the Rivers State government and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) renewed their verbal war over the perpetual injunction obtained in 2007 by the state government restraining the anti-graft  agency from investigating it’s finances. The administration of former Governor Peter Otunanya Odili, had in 2007 gotten a perpetual injunction restraining the EFCC, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) and other anti-graft agencies from investigating the account of the state government. To kick-start the fresh verbal war was the acting chairman of EFCC, Ibrahim Mustapha Magu, during his official visit to the commission’s zonal office in Port Harcourt. Addressing newsmen during the visit, Magu stated that the judgement of the Federal High Court, stopping the commission from investigating Rivers State governors will not stand. He said: “Nothing is going to stop us, even the issue of the court order allegedly obtained by Dr Peter Odili and co to stop the EFCC from investigation and prosecution has been overtaken by event even though the matter is still at the supreme we on it. “I am telling you that, that judgement cannot stand, it will only take sometime it cannot hold and we are going to conclude the investigation. There are so many investigations we are doing, we will take it before the court, let the court refuse to prosecute their case. “I am sure the matter has suffered for about 13 years now. We are going to test it, the matter is in the Supreme Court, we will follow it up. “That decision that is pending in the Supreme Court does not actually, cannot hold water again. There are subsequent judgements that have discarded it. Clearly, there are other judgements that came up and said nobody, not even the judge, not even the Judiciary, not even the court can stop us from investigating and prosecuting,” the anti-graft boss stated. Efforts by the EFCC to investigate the finances of the Rivers State government during the administration of former Governor Rotimi Amaechi, met stiff resistance as the state government insisted that the anti-graft agency must vacate the injunction of the Federal High Court first. Also, under the present administration of Nyesom Wike, the EFCC had made several attempts to investigate the finances of the state government, including declaring four top government officials wanted in September 2018. The four officials, namely Fubara Siminayi; Harrisonba Bessi Princewill; Lekia V. Bukpor and Dagogo Rodderick Abere, were declared wanted over alleged cases of criminal conspiracy, money laundering, misappropriation of public funds and abuse of office to the tune of N117 billion. A letter signed by its head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, reads in part: “The public is hereby notified that the persons whose photographs appear in this alert are wanted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. “Fubara Siminayi, Harrisonba Bessi Princewill, Lekia V. Bukpor and Dagogo Rodderick Abere, officials of the Rivers State Government, are wanted in a case of criminal conspiracy, money laundering, misappropriation of public funds and abuse of office to the tune of N117 billion (One hundred and seventeen billion Naira). “The suspects, in their capacity as signatories to the Rivers State Government account, are alleged to have acted as proxies to several government officials and conspired, fraudulently withdrew and diverted the sum between 2015 and 2018. “Fubara, Director of Finance of the Rivers State Government, is 43 years old and dark in complexion. His last known address is No. 12 Endless Street, Elitor Woji Town, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. “Harrisonba, a cashier, is 58 years old and dark in complexion. Her last known address is No. 34 Post Office Road, Woji, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. “Lekia is 61 years old and dark in complexion. His last known address is Ministry of Finance, Block C, 1st Floor, Rivers State Secretariat Complex, Port Harcourt. ” ”Dagogo is 58 years old and dark in complexion. His last known address is Ministry of Finance, Block C, 1st Floor, Rivers State Secretariat Complex, Port Harcourt. The suspects hail from Rivers State.” In October 2018, the Rivers State government approached a State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, which ordered the EFCC to pay the sum of N600million as exemplary damages to two state government officials for declaring them wanted without justification. The two officials, the state accountant general, Frederick Dagogo-Abere, and a former permanent secretary, Ministry of Local Government, Lekia Bukpo, were among those accused by the anti-graft agency of withdrawing N117billion from state government coffers. The judge, Justice George Omereji, in his ruling, declared that the anti-graft agency violated the fundamental rights of the officials by investigating the Rivers State Government account. He stated that the action was in disobedience of a subsisting court order restraining the commission from investigating the state government’s account. Justice Omereji said he was embarrassed by the actions of the EFCC, adding that the commission failed to appeal the judgments against it, but resorted to self-help, by inviting the state officials. He said that the commission should first vacate the subsisting order made by Justice Ibrahim Buba of the Federal High Court before taking any action on accounts of the state government. The judge also described the letter of invitation of the EFCC to the state government officials as malicious, maintaining that only the Rivers State House of Assembly had the right to investigate the financial activities of the state government. The court ordered the anti-graft agency to pay N300million each of Federick Abere and Lekia Biokpo as exemplary damages. Few days after the High Court ruling, a Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt restrained the EFCC from arresting or detaining contractors, lawyers, professionals and service providers working with Rivers State. The court also restrained the EFCC and the attorney-general of the federation from inviting and detaining officials of the government for alleged investigation. Ruling on a suit filed by the attorney-general of Rivers State against EFCC and the attorney-general of the federation, the Presiding Judge, Justice Hilary Oshomah stopped both institutions from interfering with the accounts of the state pending determination of the substantive  suit. Oshomah said: “An order of interlocutory injunction restraining 1st and 2nd Defendants/Respondents (EFCC/AGF) from inviting or further inviting, arresting and or detaining contractors (engaged by the Rivers State government to carry out projects), professionals (including lawyers) or service providers to the Rivers State government who have been paid by  the State Government, for the purpose of investigating, probing and or interfering in any manner whatsoever with the management of the Rivers State consolidated fund. “An order of interlocutory injunction restraining 1st and 2nd Defendants from giving any effect or further effect to the letter dated August 7, 2018, wherein EFCC invited some officials of the Rivers State government on August 20  or any date for that matter”. Oshomah also stopped the EFCC and AGF or their agents, servants and privies from retrieving/demanding the Bank Verification Number (BVN) of any officials of the plaintiffs, contractors, lawyers or vendors, who have received payment for the purpose of probing or interfering with the accounts of the state pending determination of the substantive suit. The court further restrained the EFCC and AGF from directing  Zenith Bank and Access Bank to furnish them with the bank account details, record books and/or any document for the purpose of probing, investigating or interfering with accounts of Rivers State until determination of the substantive suit. The court held that the preliminary objection dated September 3, 2018, filed by the EFCC against the suit lacked merit. According to the court, the Motion on Notice by the Rivers attorney-general dated September 24, 2018, was meritorious  in its entirety. Responding to the latest comments by the EFCC acting chairman, the Rivers State government reiterated that the anti-graft agency has no power to investigate the financial transactions of the state. The commissioner for Information and Communications, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt, said EFCC can only investigate the government if it vacates the Federal High Court judgment that declared that it cannot investigate the financial transactions of the government. Nsirim said: “Magu cannot claim that that judgement cannot stand, except he wants Nigerians to believe that he has started issuing instructions to the Supreme Court. “It is unfortunate that in a democracy someone holding a public office would want to muzzle the Court.” On the allegation that Rivers State is the second capital of money laundering in Nigeria after Lagos, the Information Commissioner wondered how the EFCC arrived at that conclusion. He said: “To justify this allegation, the EFCC should make public the names of people they have arrested and prosecuted in Rivers State over money laundering. If this is not done, Magu’s statement would just be seen as mere playing to the gallery to enjoy cheap publicity.” Nsirim stated that the Rivers State Government will support EFCC to fight corruption within the ambit of the law, but will reject any attempt to subvert the rule of law in the state. He advised the Acting Chairman of the EFCC to be patient and desist from the illegality of arrogating to himself the  judicial powers of courts. Information Commissioner said: “The EFCC should desist from self help and unnecessary political propaganda,  as it will yield no results.”