Staff of the National Youth Service Corps ( NYSC ) Borno State have been charged to make the operations of the scheme visible in the state through integrating and mobilising Corps Members to key in to developmental program of their host community. The call was made by the newly appointed State Coordinator Nura Umar in his maiden meeting with members of staff, at the NYSC Secretariat, federal government Secretariat complex, Maiduguri. The Coordinator who is the 24th Chief executive officer of the scheme in the state informed the staff that for NYSC to be relevant in its operations, its presence must be felt by the host communities and which could only be achieved through Corps activities such as Community Development Service and Corps Members participation in government and societal activities. “We can’t operate in isolation, it is our duty to engage Corps Members to partake in activities that will improve the socio – economic life of the state; and it is only through such engagements that the presence of the scheme can be registered, while lack of activities makes corps Members inactive and truant “. On attitude to work, Alh. Nura harps on commitment, dedication and loyalty to the scheme, as according to him such traits should not be compromised, as they are necessary ingredients in moving any organization forward. He then warned members of staff to refrain from conniving with Corps Members to abandon their places of primary assignment , as such act discredit and destroy not only their image but of the scheme in general. ” Corps Discipline should be our priority , Staff are to refrain from covering Corps Members illegally to abandoned their duty Post, rather it is our duty to tutor them to always do what is right”. The State coordinator commended them for their resilient in seeing that the operations of the scheme have not suffered despite the peculiar situation in the state. He then solicited for their cooperation and support towards achieving and enhancing the mandate assigned to his office, and also assured them that he will operate an inclusive administration where every member of staff will be carried along and positive criticism accepted. On their various submission, some Members of staff that have reacted to the State Coordinator’s remarks, congratulates him on his newn appointment and enjoined him to improve loyalty and team work among staff.