Governorship primaries and election will hold in Edo State this year. While the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is enmeshed in internal crisis, does the main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have what it takes to win the  governorship race? PATRICK OCHOGA writes. B attle for the soul of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State has been tough.  The tussle between the APC national chairman who was former governor of the state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his successor in office,  Governor Godwin Obaseki, appears to have, so far,  defiled all political interventions by stakeholders at resolving the crisis. Some pundits already speculate that the crisis in the ruling party may not abate even after it’s primary election and a candidate emerges. The main opposition party in the state, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is hoping to cash in on the crisis rocking the APC ahead of the polls. But does PDP,  a former ruling party in the state, have what it takes to defeat the APC even in its divided state. After losing the 2016 governorship elections, the PDP slumped into political hibernation, albeit temporarily. It’s candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu  had lost the governorship election to the incumbent Governor Obaseki. Ize-Iyamu, prior to the 2016 election fell out with then governor, Oshiomhole, after it was clear that he won’t get the APC governorship ticket. He defected to the PDP where he contested the governorship election against Obaseki. APC won the election. Although the PDP tries to critic the ruling APC in the state, the opposition party under the watch of the state chairman, Dan Orbih, being hopeful that the crisis rocking the APC is a good omen for the PDP headquarters of the polls, started galvanizing  members across the 192 wards in the 18 local government areas of the state. But the move suffered a political setback when one of its main rallying figures and strategist, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, shockingly dumped the PDP for the APC. The Ize-Iyamu’s defection shook the PDP as thousands of his supporters moved with him into the APC. It was gathered that he joined the party to contest for the APC governorship ticket at the party’s forthcoming  primary election. Obstacle PDP Must Overcome The leadership of the PDP is presently at a cross-roads over which political zone the party’s governorship ticket should go to. While some of the party’s leaders are of the view that the ticket should be zoned to Edo Central senatorial district others are rooting for Edo South which controls majority of the voting population in the state. Aspirants eyeing the PDP ticket so far are, Barrister Kenneth Imansuagbon, (Edo Central) Hon Ogbeide Ihama, (Edo South), Gideon Ikhine, (Edo Central), Hon Ifaluyi Isibor, (Edo South). The party in one of its meeting was said to have agreed and thrown the governorship ticket open. Insiders say the move is to give room for a popular and acceptable candidate to emerge irrespective of political zoning. However, crisis emerged when it was gathered that the party had reneged on it plans to abide by its earlier decision, thereby fueling suspicion of plans by the leadership to impose a candidate on the party. Tension however heightened when it was learnt that the chairmanship position ahead of the party’s congress was said to have been zoned to Edo central thereby justifying why the governorship ticket should be zoned to Edo South, a move that limits the chances of Imansuagbon and Ikhine. Sensing a move by the PDP to heed to its earlier decision and technically shut out aspirants from the zone the opportunity to fly the party’s flag, some youths of the party last week threatened to hold parallel congresses and primaries if the processes were not transparent. They specifically warned the outgoing state executives led by Chief Dan Orbih against any plot to impose party chairman on the party. Coordinator of the PDP youth under the umbrella of PDP Youths for Justice, Alhaji Musa Kadiri, also accused Chief Orbih of positioning Senator Ugbesia to take over from him as the state party chairman. Alhaji Kadiri, had called on the party leader, Chief Lucky Igbinedion, to intervene to ensure that the earlier agreement of no zoning principle is maintained. Kadiri stated that if Chief Orbih is allowed to have his way to install Ugbesia, ‘aspirants like Kenneth Imasuangbon, Gideon Ikhine who sacrificed a lot for the party will be schemed out of the race. Ugbesia and Imasuangbon hail from the same local government.’ Kadiri stated:  “We are saddened at the reports of happenings within the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party as the party prepares for its congresses from January 15, 2020. “The crisis bedeviling the All Progressives Congress in Edo State coupled with the poor performances of Governor Godwin Obaseki has given the party a good chance to win the governorship election but the manner of the outgoing Chairman, Chief Dan Orbih is putting the PDP at risk. “The argument being put forward by some Edo PDP leaders are that aspirants in Edo Central cannot win governorship election. This is a fallacy to rig some aspirants out of the race. “We are by this briefing putting Edo PDP leaders on notice to avert pending crisis. Uche Secondus should urgently intervene to prevent parallel congresses in Edo. All the aspirants need a level playing ground for the party’s primaries. Edo South deserve the Chairmanship position as it has never held the position since 1999.” But Chief Orbih who reacted through the state publicity secretary of the party, Mr. Chris Nehikhare, said the Edo PDP has no support group with such name. His words, “They are faceless organisation and being sponsored by enemies of the party. I can tell you that in the past three of four days, party chairmen from Edo North and Edo South have gone to pledge support for Ugbesia.” As part of move to douse rising tension and anger among stakeholders and aspirants in the party, leadership of the party had quickly convened an emergency meeting where the issue of the governorship was said to have dominated discussions. The meeting which held at the Benin City residence of the state party chairman, Chief Dan Orbih, had in attendance 10 leaders from each of the senatorial district. Governorship aspirants such as Kenneth Imasuangbon, Engr Gideon Ikhine, Ifaluyi Isibor, Hon Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama were also in attendance. It was gathered that Edo PDP leader, Chief Lucky Igbinedion, had made a move to ensure the party picked the chairmanship position from Owan axis. But the move was kicked against by some leaders who argued that the outgoing chairman hails from Edo North. Sources at the meeting said some leaders in attendance had argued strongly on the need for the party to zone its ticket to Edo central. The argument, according to sources, was shut down as majority of the party faithful insisted that zoning the ticket to Edo South remains the best option for the party. Some PDP chieftains in anger stormed out of the meeting in disappointment  and vowed to work against the party should they fail to provide a free and fair platform for all aspirants to contest the primaries freely. But the state chairman of the party Dan Orbih told newsmen shortly after the meeting that gathering was to review strategy on how to reclaim the state from the grip of the APC and assured that the party would conduct credible congresses that will throw up new leadership for the party. According to him, “We reinstated our resolve to win back Edo State. We expressed our disappointment with what is going on in the state. We no longer have 24 members in the Edo State House of Assembly. What we have are only 10 members. “I believe PDP will reclaim the 14 seats in the State Assembly and that will put us in the majority of the Assembly. We have talked on a lot of issues and at the end of the meeting all leaders and members were satisfied we have put in place a comprehensive plan to win back Edo State. “In a political party, people have interest but all I must say is that we will conduct Congress that will throw up a new leadership of the party. We will have an Exco that we will be proud of and continue where I will stop. All our leaders are happy.” Even as the party is optimistic in reclaiming the state, the party is also exploring constitutional and legal means when it wrote the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC), through the doctrine of necessity declare the first runner up, (PDP candidates) in the state house of assembly winner, arguing that the 14 APC lawmakers had failed to subscribe to oath of membership an allegiance with regards to their constituency. The party also noted that the appropriate thing the commission should do in the circumstance is to withdraw the affected members’ certificate of return having failed/neglected to seat in the House they were elected. It also added “That sequel to the declaration of the affected Constituencies vacant by the Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, the commission should not in the interest of justice and equity, conduct any fresh elections into the affected constituencies as the affected members-elect did not subscribed to the Oath of membership/allegiance and abdicated their responsibilities. “That the state resources should not be wasted in conducting fresh Elections where there are 1st runners up in the concluded elections. “That certificate of return should be issued to the 1st runner up in their various Constituencies, since the members-elect who abdicated their position did not subscribe to the Oath of Membership/Allegiance before their Constituencies were declared vacant by the Speaker in the interest of Justice and Equity. “That the Doctrine of Necessity should be invoked to issue certificate of return to the 1st runner up in the election in order to save their constituencies from undue suffering and neglect having performed their civic responsibility of voting only to be denied the dividend of democracy” the party argued. As much as PDP hopes to leverage on the internal crisis of APC, its own budding internal crisis is poised to cause a major setback ahead of the primaries.