The raging crisis in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) took a disturbing dimension yesterday as its National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting held in Abuja was shunned by governors elected on its platform and other stakeholders. Following the Supreme Court judgment, which sacked Emeka Ihedioha as governor of Imo State, the party leadership had summoned an emergency NEC meeting to review the issue and take a stand on it. But, the meeting was scantily attended by key officials and leaders of the party, especially state governors, who play enormous roles in its affairs. Among the governors who failed to show up at the parley, which was tagged the “87th NEC meeting”, were Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), David Umahi (Ebonyi),  Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Ben Ayade (Cross River}, Samuel Ortom (Benue), Darius Ishaku (Taraba), and Seyi Makinde of Oyo State. Other stakeholders who were also absent at the meeting included former Senate President, David Mark, the immediate past Senate President, Bukola Saraki, former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara. Others were former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, former minister of foreign affairs, Tom Ikimi, former PDP deputy national chairman, Bode George, and former governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose. No explanation was given for their absence at the meeting. However, governors Umaru Fintiri of Adamawa State, Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto ), and Bello Mattawalle of Zamfara State as well as Ihedioha attended the parley. In his address, former vice president and PDP presidential candidate in the 2019 poll, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, decried Nigeria’s current democratic experience. He charged the citizens to revisit the struggle that brought about the current democracy that “the All Progressives Congress (APC) governing party is threatening.” Atiku said that “our party governed very well from 1999 up to 2015. As true democrats, we conceded power to the opposition in the hope that it will further entrench democracy, development and unity. But, alas, Nigerians have been proved wrong by the governing APC.” While calling on Nigerians to resist the ongoing threat to democracy, Atiku said that “it has become very necessary for us to mobilise Nigerians to resists the threat to our democracy, unity and development. “Therefore, I will like to propose that a strong committee be set up to review the last elections and recommend to the party the needed reforms and address the challenges in the last election. “But what cannot wait is that we should not take what has been happening in our democratic process from the role of INEC, security agencies, and the judiciary for granted. “If we take all these roles for granted, that will be the end of our hard-earned struggle, including our founding members, who are today not alive. What can we say we have done to their struggles as they lay in their graves? “Therefore, as long as we are alive, it is our responsibility to reincarnate the struggle they led to what brought about the democracy of today that the APC governing party is threatening,” he said. The PDP Board of Trustees (BoT) chairman, Senator Walid Jibrin, who decried the verdict of the apex court on the Imo State governorship poll, said that it was the “saddest moment of our lives not just for PDP.” Referring to a traditional Igbo cap he wore to the meeting, he said: “We are ready for the war. Putting the cap on the left, which means war; it shows that we are at war.” He added that “I have not cried for a long time but crying won’t solve our problems. Let’s come together and do the best thing we can do.” “Nigeria is getting to an end,” he said, adding that “most of my friends have told me that they are leaving Nigeria because of the way the country is going.” Earlier, the PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said that the democratic gains of the nation had been squandered by the APC in only 56 months in power. Secondus, who insisted that the PDP was robbed of Imo, said that “the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari’s hatchet job of undermining our democracy through the judiciary which began with the midnight breaking into the homes of judges and justices in 2016 and the unilateral removal of the former chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), Walter Onnoghen, in January 2019 on the eve of general elections, were beginning to materialise clearly. He said: “Anxiety has engulfed our country because it’s now evident that all the huge sacrifices and contributions of our founding fathers to ensure the endurance of democracy in our land are being thrown to the dustbin. “All the efforts of our great party to deepen and grow our democracy for 16 years that resulted in our losing power and handing over in a seamless transition to the opposition are being blatantly squandered in APC’s 56 months reign,” Secondus said. However, in its communique after the meeting, the party said that the country had witnessed the destruction of democratic values, ethos, principles and the consistent breach of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). The PDP assured Nigerians that it would protect and defend democracy and its institutions in the country and rejected the “destructions of our democratic institution and values especially the independence of the legislature, the politicisation of the judiciary and the compromising of our security and electoral institutions.” It noted what it called the gross abuse of the rule of law, the muzzling of the civil society and advocates of free speech as well as the ordinary Nigerians. The PDP condemned the utter desecration of judicial tenets and values which “climaxed in the national embarrassment of the Supreme Court’s manufacturing of votes and donating same to the APC and its candidate, Hope Uzodimma, thereby robbing the people of Imo State of the mandate freely given to Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as their governor. “The PDP observes that this calculated injustice perpetuated by the Supreme Court has proven that the judiciary under Justice Tanko Muhammad is no longer the last hope of the common man in Nigeria. “The Supreme Court by its judicial somersault has eroded the faith and confidence, which Nigerians have in participatory election thereby showcasing that there will be no need for election in the future. “The PDP stands with the people of Imo State and Hon. Emeka Ihedioha in all steps being taken to reverse this injustice and reclaim the governorship mandate stolen through the Supreme Court. “The PDP assures Nigerians that, our party, through all available constitutional and legitimate means, including civil disobedience, will insist that this government must respect the rule of law and desist from influencing the judiciary, INEC and security agencies. “The PDP will not allow the judiciary, security agencies and other institutions of governance to become departments of the APC,” the party said. 20 Imo Assembly Members Plan Defection To APC Meanwhile, the Imo State House of Assembly is set to witness massive defection as over 20 of its members have concluded arrangement to join the APC. This is sequel to the emergence of Uzodimma of APC as the governor of the state.  The Assembly is at present dominated by PDP members. This jump of ship is necessitated by the current political equation predicated on the removal of Ihedioha as the governor of the state. Also, some PDP stakeholders have concluded plans to defect to APC as a result of the removal of Ihedioha. Uzodimma would certainly want to work with a speaker of APC extraction as the present occupant of the office, Hon. Collins Chiji, is of the PDP, having joined the party from the All Progressives Grand Alliance.(APGA).