Managing Director, UTL Trust Management Services Limited, Mrs. Olufunke Aiyepola speaks on the need for a more friendly tax ecosystem, to ease the process of assets transfer and utilisation of trust solutions in this interview with OLUSHOLA BELLO. What are you doing to support and ease access to financial services? When people talk about financial services, they often refer to banking and investment activities. However, financial services include estate planning which is the ultimate phase in a financial planning cycle. We have blazed the trail by introducing our triple award-winning Willpower Platform which is the first dedicated will-writing platform in Nigeria. Willpower, as an estate planning solution, has been provided to ensure the completion of the financial planning cycle. It empowers adults to secure the future of their assets, family and dependents seamlessly from the comfort or privacy of the home or business place, adults can create the appropriate estate planning vehicle that meets their requirements. Quite a number of people do not see the need for wills. What do you see as the reason and how are you handling the challenge? The apathy to will writing is a function of the cultural dispositions and myths that surround estate planning, especially in Nigeria. The reality is that death is inevitable. From our experience so far, Nigerians, especially those in paid employment, are beginning to see the importance of Will writing. To encourage the adoption of Will writing in Nigeria, we have embarked on a nationwide campaign via radio jingles, short movies in English, pidgin, Yoruba and Igbo which have gone viral on YouTube, Twitter, Instagram and Facebook, newspaper adverts and general advocacy aside from several other activations. The campaign is aimed at effecting a change of perspective with regards to estate planning. At what point should anybody start thinking about writing a will? Ordinarily, any adult who is employed or engaged in a business should write a will. Also, there are some young adults who are privileged to inherit or be gifted with sizeable investments. It is pertinent that this category of persons also plan their estates. Employers should step up their welfare packages by including estate planning in their onboarding-cum-welfare processes. As soon as a person is employed, the process should commence, given the combined value of the contributory pension and life insurance proceeds. We have observed that a lot of people consider the joint contributions of Employer and staff into the RSA as meagre. However, they need to realise that the group life insurance covers a minimum of three times the total annual emolument of an employee.  For instance, if a person’s annual total emolument is about N10 million, the person’s portion of the group life insurance proceeds in the year that the person dies in service will be a minimum sum of N30 million. This is in addition to the balance of the retirement savings account that had been contributed by that individual and the employer. When gratuity and other benefits are added, it amounts to a considerable sum. A lot of people are not aware of the insurance proceeds that are added to the retirement savings account balance, so, it is important that they begin to take cognizance of this. Estate planning also applies to our brothers and sisters that are trading in hundreds of millions and with profits in double digits millions that are yet to plan their estates, which includes the continuity of their businesses. They often do not appreciate that in the event of death, people who have not contributed to their efforts would be the beneficiaries of the assets that they have acquired. So, if you have a house, a plot/plots of land, insurance benefits, stocks and holdings, interests in partnerships, business interests and even monies lent to others, all of these form part of your estate and should be properly planned for. We encourage all adults employed or engaged in business to write a will. It is important because death can come knocking on anybody’s door at any time. How important is the trusteeship function in the chain of financial and non-financial transactions? Globally, financial markets thrive on trust. It is well established, that investors will not put their funds in any market where trust is in doubt. Trust services have enhanced the flow of funds in the financial markets, whether for corporates borrowing from banks for expansionary projects or governments borrowing from the public to fund fiscal plans. Statutorily, the trustee function is a requirement for Public Issues. The trustee role is that of an independent third party who protects the interests of the diverse parties. The ancillary roles would include: ensuring that transaction arrangements are properly documented according to the intentions of the parties, covenants are enforced, and obligations honoured as and at when due. As regards non-financial transactions, the trustees’ role is akin to that of financial transactions because usually a non-financial transaction would have financial implications. Depending on the transaction, the arrangement could involve several lenders and borrowers; investors and issuers, or settlors and beneficiaries. Besides the popular and statutory requirement of trustees in bonds and collective investment schemes, what other functions and services do you provide? UTL in her 53 years of existence has been offering superior trusteeship services to both local and foreign clients. Aside from our role as trustees to bonds and collective investment schemes, we also provide the following services as: Security Trustees, holding security interests over assets pledged as collateral for multiple lenders or creditors in bank syndicated/club lending; Trustees to various employee welfare benefits such as share trusts, profit sharing schemes and superannuation funds amongst others; Trustees/Executors to Trusts and Wills. We administer several estates in Nigeria and the Diaspora and are trustees to many trust arrangements such as Education Trusts, Living Trusts, Family Welfare Trusts as well as other purpose specific Trusts. UTL has also been appointed severally by courts in different states in Nigeria to administer disputed estates. Our trusteeship services to several foundations include scholarships from secondary to tertiary education in Nigeria. We conduct qualifying examinations, interviews and placements of students across the federation. Aside from being licenced to provide trust services, we are also duly licenced by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as funds and portfolio managers. Taking a medium-term outlook, what are your plans and projections for the company? Consistent with our vision and mission statements, to remain the trustee company to trust and to provide unique trust services to our clients rendered with integrity on the platforms of expertise and technology”, we intend to create an environment where corporate and natural persons utilise trust solutions for their everyday affairs. What are those incentives that you think will enhance adoption of trusteeship? There is need for the Trustees Act to be passed into law, which will include provisions for charity trusts and cure the anomalies of the Trustee Investment Act, amongst others. Also, a more trust friendly tax ecosystem that would reduce stamp duties for the transfer of assets to encourage increased utilisation of trust solutions, an allowance for nominal stamping in security trusteeship transactions would ease the burden of borrowing costs for corporate entities and the re- inclusion of trust arrangements in the Pension Reform Act 2004. There is this notion that corporate trustees render services alone to corporate entities, government and high net worth investors, what can you say about this? Since its inception, UTL Trustees has provided services to all categories of persons. Our product offerings across our trusts and our fund/portfolio functions are designed to cater for all strata of society with a thorough understanding of the peculiarity and value proportion of each segment. For instance, at N50,000, our Will writing service “WillPower” is quite affordable.