An indigenous organisation in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) under the auspices of Original Inhabitants Youth Empowerment Organisation (AOIYEO) has given Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) scholarship to over 2000 indigents students accross the six area councils of Abuja to pursue their higher education in various tertiary institutions. Commandant Isaac David, President of AOIYEO), while distributing a cash of N6000 each to the students yesterday in Gwagwalada area council, said that the organisation decided to come to the aide of the students, because many parents find it difficult to sponsor their wards to higher institution as a result of the economic crunch. David said that no child in a society must be left uneducated, because education is the live wire of development in any society, saying that educating the youths should not be left for the government or parents, that it should be a collective responsibility from privileged Nigerians. “Education is key to greatness, that is why we came up with this scholarship programme to empower underprivileged youths that have desires to further their education, so as to support government’s effort. We should always fold our hands and wait for the government to do things for us, we should think of ways to support the government. “The essence of the scholarship is to enable students who desire tertiary education to pursue their dreams under a very comfortable atmosphere, and not to be deprived of their educational desires because of paucity of funds. “The reason we are having the challenges of insecurity is because the essence of education has been defeated. If we decided to the bull by the horn and say that we must ensure that every youth in our society is educated, I tell you the truth that insecurity will be a thing of the past. “The best thing any good hearted leader must do, is to empower those at the grassroots. That is why we decided to pick this ones out to pay fro their JAMB exams. After the JAMB exams, we will select the best students amongst them to sponsor them through higher education,” he said. He called on other organisations, corporate organisation and well meaning individuals to emulate the gesture and bring succour to hardworking and underprivileged candidates wishing to advance their educational career.