Political stakeholders and academics on Wednesday converged on Lagos and stressed the need to restructure the Nigeria nation to give room for unity, fairness and equity, saying failure to restructure the country may make the country go into extinction. They spoke at a workshop organised by the Institute of African and Diaspora Studies, University of Lagos on the topic “Restructuring the Nigerian State.” Speakers at the workshop held in Lagos. In his keynote address, the former governor of Anambra State, Dr. Emeka Ezeife noted that without urgent, serious political reengineering or restructuring the country will go into extinction. He explained that no group of Nigerians, large or small can happily walk away from Nigeria, properly restructured with justice and fairness prevailing. Also speaking, the Publicity Secretary of the Pan Yoruba Socio Political Organization, Afenifere Mr Yinka Odumakin said it pained him in the heart that of all the beautiful recommendations on how to move Nigeria forward that the 2014 National Conference came up with none was implemented by the government in power. He explained that issue of restructuring can’t be swept under the carpet because it is germane if the country is to move forward and issues raised would give room for equity, justice and fair play. He cited issue  giving some states higher allocation because they have more local government areas than the others just as he said many of those local government areas are just land mass, without people living there In the submission of Dr Franca Attoh, who spoke on sociology of restructuring,  she said many politicians have advocated for restructuring of the country were unable to walk their talk, rather they use restructuring as a topic to woo voters to their side and when they got elected into office they forget about the need to restructure the country. She however noted that if issue of restructuring is not addressed the up -coming generation would not forgive the present generation. 