The State Employment and Expenditure For Results (SEEFOR) Project in Bayelsa State has constructed 406 roads and empowered 17, 665 residents across the eight Local Government Areas of the State since its inception in June, 2013. According to SEEFOR, it has also funded the procurement of equipment and renovated critical infrastructure to enhance learning through a School Improvement Plan (SIP) through grants to Technical, Vocational Education and Agricultural Training (TVEAT) which led to an increase school attendance rate of the State. Speaking on Wednesday during a media tour of completed and ongoing projects, the SEEFOR Project Coordinator in the State, Mr. Ayens Adogu, explained that through its strategy of engaging youths in the area of public works, road maintenance and sanitation, it has constructed over 70km of roads across the State. Adogu said that the SEEFOR is also working on modalities to ensure that it’s partners, World Bank and European Union, adjust the salary structure of benefiaries of the program conforms with the new N30, 000 minimum wage policy of the Federal Government. Also ensuring the sustainability of the road and infrastructures constructed by the SEEFOR, Adogu said at the end of the project the relevant ministries of the state government would be engaged on how to ensure the projects are maintained. Also speaking, the National Project Coordinator of SEEFOR, Dr. Greg Onu, commended the Bayelsa State office for exceeding the target of the project in youth employment and public access to socio-economic services. He said that with a target of 137 concrete roads targeted at schools, health facilities and markets, the Bayelsa SEEFOR constructed 406 concrete roads which tripled the expectation of partners of the project. For ensuring transparency and accountability, Dr. Onu appealed to the World Bank and European Union to extend the SEEFOR Programme in the State beyond September 2019, the terminal date for the Programme. According to him, given the huge success of the Seefor Programme in the State, there is a need for the World Bank to either extend it or create another window of similar collaboration with the State government, with a view to continuing the developmental agenda of the World Bank in the State.
Some of the beneficiaries, Abraham Tobin and Peter Victor said the SEEFOR project has helped them off the streets and have provided them funds to meet their daily needs. Most of the beneficiaries who are in their early twenties revealed that through the program, they have been able to set up their mini businesses, and they therefore called on the European Union and World bank to keep improving lives through the SEEFOR projects. Also speaking, the chairman of the Nigerian Union of Journalists, Bayelsa State Council, Comrade Samuel Numonengi who join the project tour, lauded the practical effort of SEEFOR in keeping youths of the State from crime. “>…to God be the glory!”