To enable the armed forces and other security agencies tackle the debilitating security challenges facing the country, the national security adviser (NSA), Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd), has called for more collaboration from Nigerians with the military, the police and other para-military organisations. Monguno made the appeal yesterday after the first National Security Council (NSC) for the year 2020 summoned by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, Abuja He dismissed speculations in some quarters that the meeting discussed the fate of the country’s service chiefs, who the National Assembly asked the president to sack on Wednesday for alleged poor performance. The parley was presided by Buhari with VicePresident Yemi Osinbajo, the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, and the security chiefs in attendance. The meeting came amidst anger in the land over fresh attacks and killings by bandits and insurgents in various parts of the country. Some angry Nigerians, including senators and members of the House of Representatives in Wednesday demanded the removal of the service chiefs. But Monguno told State House correspondents after the security meeting that the council did not discuss the fate of the service chiefs. Monguno said: “The issue of the National Assembly resolution did not come up at the meeting. The quarterly meeting appraised the security situation across the country with a view to finding lasting solutions to the problem. “The meeting basically made an appraisal of the current security situation in the country and took a look at the possibilities, the opportunities available to government in addressing most of the recent challenges. “There were discussions and at the end of the day, the most important thing that we came up with is the need for collaboration, both between governmental agencies and the larger Nigerian society because of the type of the insurgencies we are faced with, the complexities, the multiplicity of all kinds of issues. “There is a need for both parties – governmental agencies on one hand and the larger society – to collaborate more vigorously. There is a need for us to deal with these problems in a comprehensive manner. “Therefore, council has decided to take a closer look at issues that will help us not just at the federal level or at the state level, but right down to the local government level. But this is going to be done after due consultations with the relevant stakeholders,’’ he said. Asked to give a general assessment of the nation’s security situation and judge whether it is stable or critical, Monguno said: “The security situation is like a graph; sometimes it goes up, sometimes it comes down and that is why we have to assess it periodically. It will never remain at a permanent level till we bring the whole situation to an end. Sometimes it could escalate, other times, it would go down. “So there is no perfect answer to that. If I tell you that it has improved and as we walk out of this place and something might happen. There might be an explosion somewhere. These are things that are not predictable; these are things that you cannot actually determine. That is the nature of this type of conflict we are facing,” he stated. When urged to give more insight to what manner of collaboration the government had in mind, the NSA replied: “The issue of collaboration is not something that I can disclose right now. We just concluded the meeting and we have to look at the issues before coming out with whatever decision. For collaboration, I want to think that everybody understands the need for a whole government approach in collaborating with the whole of society approach to achieve a lot. This situation requires everybody in the country to work together to deal with these challenges. So, where there are gaps we need to close them. That is what I mean by collaboration.” On whether his earlier opinion that the Almajiri system of education in the northern parts of the country be jettisoned is being considered, Monguno said: “The Almajiri thing is not a situation that the national security adviser on his own may deal with. I identified it as a challenge, and I said it was one of the fundamentals, the root causes of these overlapping problems and needs to be addressed. Addressing it will require not just the federal and states but right down to the local government. Something is being done about that right now.” Monguno added that the security challenges in the country were multidimensional including internal, external, defence, diplomatic, and even economic. The NSA, however, assured Nigerians that the government was aware of the enormity of the task and was prepared to confront it. The meeting was also attended by the minister of defence, Bashir Salihi Magashi and the minister of interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. Others were the chief of defence staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin, the chief of army staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, the chief of naval staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas, the chief of air staff, Air Marshall Sadique Abubakar, the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, and the director-general of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Rafa’i Abubakar.  PMB’s Comments On Insecurity Misinterpreted – Presidency Meanwhile, the presidency has condemned what it described as the “mischievous slant” given by both the traditional and social media to the comments of President Buhari on the security challenges in some parts of the country. Presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, said that when Buhari hosted eminent and respected citizens of Niger State at the State House, Abuja, on Monday, he had said: “I was taken aback by what is happening in the North West and other parts of the country. During our campaigns, we knew about the Boko Haram. What is coming now is surprising. It is not ethnicity or religion; rather it is one evil plan against the country. “We have to be harder on them. One of the responsibilities of government is to provide security. If we don’t secure the country, we will not be able to manage the economy properly,” Buhari stated. But Adesina lamented that the reportage of the above statement was slanted to mean that President Buhari said that he was unaware of the security challenges in some parts of the country. He said: “Far from it, except to the mischievous mind. The president is fully aware and fully in charge of all that is going on. The statement by the president was clear enough, and these are the salient points: “In 2015, we knew there was Boko Haram insurgency, particularly in the Northeast, and we mentioned it in our campaigns. There are clear economic and cultural factors behind the clashes that sadly rocked many of our communities; be they the Fulani-Tiv or Fulani-Berom conflict, the Tiv versus Jukun and so on. By now, these conflicts are fairly under control. “By 2019, banditry had surfaced in the Northwest. It was surprising, as the area is almost homogeneous, made up of Hausa-Fulanis. The combatants are largely Muslims. This is what the president said he was surprised about. “The point he made was that what is happening in the country is not about ethnicity or religion, it is plainly an evil plan against the nation. “It is disingenuous that the earlier and latter parts of the statement were downplayed, and the middle part misinterpreted to mean that President Buhari was unaware or surprised by the security situation in the country. “The traditional media and commentators on social media are encouraged to keep fidelity to the truth, and not concoct narratives to suit some sinister motives. It is all about our country and deliberately misrepresenting the president hurts not just the country, but the mischief makers themselves, ultimately,” he added.  We Will Continue To Focus On Policies That Bring Prosperity – PMB Meanwhile, President Buhari has reiterated the commitment of his administration to provide a safe and secure nation with policies and programmes that would bring prosperity to the people. He gave the assurance yesterday when he received the 2019 National Productivity Order of Merit awardees at the presidential villa, Abuja. Buhari said that Nigeria would reach its full potential if i’s citizens put their differences aside and work together in the spirit of cooperation. He said: “As a government, we shall continue to focus on providing a safe and secure nation with policies and programmes that will bring prosperity to the masses. I am confident that this goal is achievable if we put our differences aside and work together in the spirit of cooperation. “I am informed that the National Productivity Centre will, on an annual basis, organise fora for past awardees to come together and exchange ideas on how to encourage selfless service and commitment on our lives. “The task of nation building is an enormous one. Our citizens must endeavour to become more productive. It is only through greatly increased productivity that we can create a big and prosperous economy. The awardees here present are role models for all of us to emulate,” he stated.  Call For Service Chiefs Sack, Says Osun Monarch Also yesterday, the Olowu of Kuta, Osun State, Oba Adekunle Oyelude Makama, advised the National Assembly and those calling for the removal of the service chiefs to have a rethink. The monarch, in a statement issued by his media office, said that the country’s security situation calls “for holistic appraisal instead of quick fix which we have embarked on to tackle the Insurgency.” Oba Makama said that the call seemed to be hasty and a transferred aggression to the service chiefs who have sacrificed a lot to defend the territorial integrity and the internal security of the country. He maintained that though the security of the country needs to be overhauled for optimum performance, the people should know that the military alone is not to be blamed. The monarch said; “The Senate and House of Representatives motions that the service chiefs should resign or be sacked is not the best way to appreciate their efforts. “The danger inherent in such motions is that it will not only demoralise the officers and men who would feel let down by such decision, those coming to take over from them may be reluctant since it is the same military considering the monumental impact the present military leadership has made towards professionalism in the army. “I think when dealing with the issue of security, we should be circumspect so as not to jeopardise the success we have achieved bearing in mind that fighting insurgents is not a conventional warfare. “Again, what’s the budget for defence this year? How will the military fighting insurgents, armed banditry, kidnapping and other several operations within the country cope with such meagrebudget? “What’s the role of the DSS, NSCDC, Police, Immigration, Customs in a situation like this?” are they equipped to complement the military gains in the war fronts,” he asked. The Olowu said that it was crystal clear that the nation’s military is overstretched and to support the military in fighting the insurgents vis-a-vis political options should be a collective responsibility. He also counselled that once the military clears an area and rid it of Boko Haram elements, the onus is on the police and the NSCDC and other security agents to occupy and secure it. He is also of the opinion that the Sambisa Forest ought to have been developed and used for extended mechanised farming once the military clears it instead of leaving it fallow for the insurgents to return and reoccupy. “I think we need to do a critical appraisal of the insurgents with the view to proffering lasting solutions that will be in the interest of all and sundry. Like the Borno State governor remarked two days ago that many of the elected public officials do not want to hear the truth, I think we need to tell ourselves the plain truth, instead of resorting to fire brigade approach of treating the symptoms, instead of holistic treatment of the issues,” he added.