The Kogi State government yesterday  disclosed that it is working hard to unlock strong suspicions of external sponsorship of terror against the people of the state. The state government added that the masterminds of the attack want to “swim into 2023 in the blood of Nigerians”. Accordingly, it warned that “stern measures” will be taken to “neutralize those behind the attack on defenseless citizens of the state”. Unknown gunmen suspected to be bandits had in the early hours of Friday killed no fewer than 23 people in Tawari community, burning buildings, including houses, clinic, worship centres and the palace of the king of the community. Speaking with journalists in Lokoja yesterday, the special adviser to the governor on Information and Communication Strategy, Evangelist Kingsley Fanwo, said the Tawari attack has further exposed the fact that some powerful individuals in the country are “striving to play politics with blood by discrediting the much credited security architecture in Kogi State”. Assuring the people that those behind the attack will be “apprehended and made to face the music”, Fanwo said. He added, “There are certain individuals who thought we did not know the roles they played in the build up and even during the November 16 Governorship election in the state when they worked against the party because their second eye was already on the 2023 Presidential election. “The governor of Kogi State was recently re-elected to pilot the affairs of the State, the mandate which reaffirmed the confidence of the people in the governor. One of the biggest positives that worked in the governor’s favour was his success at securing the state. “Governor Yahaya Bello is committed to serving the people in justification of the overwhelming endorsement by the electorate. His focus is Kogi State and the well-being of the people. Those who don’t know what will happen in January 2020 are already looking at 2023. “We call on the security agencies to dig deeper than normal to unravel the masterminds of the Tawari attack and their sponsors. The Government of Kogi State will do everything constitutional to protect her citizens. Our people should keep working with security agencies by giving information timely to prevent crimes. “On the part of Government, efforts will be reset and refocused towards maintaining peace and order in the state,” he said. Fanwo also reassured the people of Tawari and its environs that government is “staunchly in solidarity with them to keep them consoled and safe from further attack”, saying efforts are in top gear to step up “the tempo of surveillance and patrol across the state.” He said, “there is a need to step up surveillance across the state and the security committee will soon be meeting to open up more conversations in that regard. We are also looking at injecting more technology into our security architecture to combat the new strategies of the enemies of Kogi State”. He thanked President Muhammadu Buhari and the security chiefs for their reaction to the “unfortunate incident sparked by unseen hands who do not want peace in Kogi State”, saying the government and the people of the state will continue to work together to defeat criminals and their sponsors. In same vein, the Kogi State Deputy Governor, Chief David Edward Onoja yesterday visited the Tawari communities attacked last Friday. Addressing residents of the affected communities in Tawari, Onoja described the development as unfortunate, assuring them of the commitment of the government to ensure tight security for the area. He said, “On behalf of the Government of Kogi State, led by our Governor, His Excellency, Chief Alhaji Yahaya Bello, we are here to see things for ourselves. It is unfortunate. It is a demonic act,  but government will take steps to assist you and other affected communities. It is a pity. We have gone round all the affected communities and we have seen the level of damage. “We shall provide security to ensure that this is controlled and that it does not happen again. I am here to commiserate with the victims of the attack. We have seen and appreciated  the extent of the damage. We have seen that the communities have been hit so badly. People have lost lives and property worth millions of naira. We shall try to give palliatives to the victims in order to bring the community back to life.” He promised that the affected communities will be reconstructed and adding that they will be given rehabilitation packages. He said settlements will be replanned and reconstructed, including worship centers. Onoja who called on the federal and state emergency management agencies to intervene also pleaded with organisations and individuals to render assistance to the victims of the attack. On his part, the administrator of Kogi Local Government, Hon Muhammed Tanko Musa, commended the government of Kogi State for its timely intervention. He reiterated the people’s confidence in the administration of Governor Bello.