With over 277,537 teachers lacking in the basic education sub-sector in Nigeria, there is urgent need to address the situation, HENRY TYOHEMBA writes. Available data on the size and quality of teachers across the nation revealed a huge deficiency in the basic education sector, both in public and private schools. This situation, according to experts, threatens becoming the delivery of quality education as learners achievement could be differentiated by teachers’ quality, going by the fact that qualified teachers significantly and positively contribute to effective teaching and learning. It also implies that in recruiting teachers, consideration should not only be given to the quantity in terms of the number of teachers but also on whether the teachers are qualified to teach that particular level of education so as to ensure quality lesson delivery. A recent report of the 2018 National Personnel Audit (NPA), conducted by the Universal basic Education Commission revealed that Nigeria is running short of over 277,537 teachers in the basic education sub-sector. The report also stated that there is a deficit of 135,319 teachers at the Early Childhood Care Development Education, 139,772 in primary schools and 2,446 in Junior Secondary Schools nationwide. It said there are 27.8 million learners currently enrolled in primary schools, 22,384,755 in public primary schools and 5,504,632 in private schools. Stakeholders are concerned that if the country would have to attain the desired growth and development, investment in teachers will play a significant role. In an interview with LEADERSHIP, winner of the 2019 Maltina Teacher of the Year Award, Mr Collin Ezim spoke on the challenges of teacher quality and quantity also attributed it to lack of passion to the few existing ones in the profession. “If we have passionate teachers we can push teaching and learning to a point that it will attract good classrooms, big salary and change the narrative. We need teachers who have good self-esteem for themselves but the fact that we don’t talk about money, the government should step up their game. “If you go to serious minded countries like Singapore, Finland, UK and some of the others, you’ll see that teachers are earning very high and money is very important in teaching because a teacher should be stable financially. Teachers have responsibilities to cater for, so teachers need money but beyond money too, we need passionate teachers.” The registrar, Teachers Registration  Council of Nigeria (TRCN), Josiah Ajiboye had earlier stated that Nigeria needs as much as 250,000 teachers annually to be able to address teachers’ deficit in the primary and post-primary schools. The registrar who spoke in an event in Abuja said, “Some teachers are leaving the profession; some are retiring and are not being replaced.  We need about 250,000 teachers annually because we have a of teachers. The insurgency in the Northeast has made the situation critical.” Meanwhile, the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) had recommended that to overcome the problem of teacher deficit and other challenges, there was the need to ensure adequate staffing with sufficient capacity. Executive secretary of the Commission, Dr Hamid Bobboyi, also said gender parity was essential to the executing the mandate of the SUBEBS and LGEAS through proper deployment and capacity development of staff. He said, “Conscious efforts should be made in recruitment to ensure gender parity in distribution of employees. Also continuous employment as positions become vacant is recommended so as to ensure that there are personnel to fill vacancies as they become vacant. In this way, pyramidal distribution of employees can be sustained. “Adequate qualified teachers should be provided in schools so that appropriate teaching and learning can be given to leaners. The pedagogical skills of the teachers must be changed to catch up with the evolving changes. So, teachers who have no requisite qualification should not find themselves in the classrooms and if discovered along the way, they should be made to undergo rigorous training in pedagogical skills or should be shown a way out because one cannot give out what helshe does not possess. “Also, teachers must vary leaning experences that captivated learners’ interest for effective leaning because students taught by qualified teachers are more likely to achieve higher test scores than those taught by unqualified teachers. The Commission further stressed that more qualified male teachers should be recruited into the basic education institution so that they can help boost the morale of the male learners academically and inspire them to aspire to be involved in the teaching profession so that it would not be as if the teaching profession is only for female gender while unprofessional teachers teaching in the schools at all levels should be made to undergo professional programmes in teacher education and register with TRCN. “This will help them to be acquainted with the requirements of the teaching profession and become school teachers and not just teachers. Professional teachers have the appropriate knowledge of subject matter content, skills and strategies in pedagogical delivery, classroom management, and assessment of students’ learning, reinforcement strategies and effective teacher-student interactions that foster positive learning.” The Commission also expressed concern as the number of male and female teachers varies greatly with much more female teachers teaching in the basic education levels both in the public and private schools. “Gender distinctions, gender bias and gender issues remain very paramount in achievement-related behaviour of pupils in schools. “Therefore, provision should be made to balance the situation so that both male and female pupils will have the same advantage in terms of the gender-related behaviour of the teachers,” UBEC stated.