Senator Yakubu Oseni represents Kogi Central in the Senate and in this interview with RUTH CHOJI, the economist turned lawmaker speaks on the 2020 Budget and the recently passed Finance Bill, among other topical issues. Budget implementation is a big problem in Nigeria. Is there any measure put in place by the National Assembly to ensure that 2020 budget is implemented to the letter? Implementation will not be a problem now because budgeting has two legs in this dispensation. The legs are the expenditure and revenue. What they normally appropriated is expenditure, they don’t put attention on revenue and without it the budget cannot be implemented. If you look at the current session of the Assembly, you will see that we are looking at both. In the past, there was no defined budget circle. This led to poor implementation. As you can see now, things are taking shape. Another thing is that, the Federal Government has also look at other sources of revenue. All these are efforts to ensure that the budget is fully implemented. But are you not bothered that funds set aside for debt servicing is more than that of capital projects? These debts have already been incurred, so you need to service them. The earlier the better, so that you can have full autonomy. You cannot boast about something that is not yours. For you to be a complete sovereign state, you must be out of debt. If we need to be debt-free in order to be truly independent, why does the Federal Government go for more loans? The debt servicing fund will also cover subsequent loans payment in future budgets and the one they are sourcing for will still be part of it. Unfortunately, our previous loans were mismanaged. We are now saying that any loan that will be collected now will be for capital projects. It will be used for development. Procurement challenge is seen as a bane of budgeting in Nigeria. Is the Senate going to do something about it? I am a member of that Committee on Procurement and we are amending the law on procurement. It has gone through first, second and third readings. We have even conducted a public hearing on amendment Bill where all stakeholders made necessary contributions. By the time it will come out and be passed into law, our procurement process will be the best. There are fears by some Nigerians that the recently passed Finance Bill which was assented to by Mr President few days ago might lead to further hardships and inflation. What is your take on this? In the past, the emphasis is always on budget but now we are looking at areas of generating more revenues. So the Bill will not lead to hardship, rather it will block leakages in the system. It is the bourgeoisies that will be effected not the masses. Of course any change might bring a bit of discomfort but it will on the long run benefit majority of Nigerians. This is just the small price we pay for good things that will come to us. Like the border closure, some people don’t understand why government took that decision, because it is not everything that they reveal to the people. Nigerians know that the Federal Government is supposed to provide security of lives and properties, but they don’t care how the government will achieve it. I am also surprised with people’s reactions when Mr. President said other Africans can come and invest here. We all know he has the best interest of the nation at heart. We have been taking our investments to them, now he is inviting them to come and invest here, with the assurance that they will make immigration processes easy for them. What is wrong with that statement? He is not saying criminals should come but serious-minded people who want to invest. Of course they will be scrutinised. He is going to relax bureaucratic bottlenecks, so that investors can be attracted. But is Nigeria secured enough for us to relax our rules for foreigners to come into the country? Of course we are secure. If we can open our doors for others to come in, then the nation is secured. If they don’t come, it means the country is not safe. As a representative of the people, are you in support of the N37bn earmarked for the renovation of National Assembly complex? As at the time they built that complex, what was the rate of the Naira to Dollar? These funds will not go to anybody’s pocket. Nigerians should go and find out the cost of building materials now. Besides, that complex houses Senators and House of Representatives members, aside the personnel that work there. My question is why do Nigerians pick fault in anything that has to do with National Assembly and ignore the executive arm of government? Look at the issue of our cars, the people criticising us are the same people that will come to our houses asking for money for their children’s school fees, naming ceremonies and the rest. They don’t care what we go through. They don’t look at the executive when by hierarchy the lawmakers are higher than ministers. If they want to buy utility vehicles for senators, people make noise while a minister has a convoy of vehicles in his entourage. Nobody talks about it. Yet you talk about someone that was elected by a zone to represent them. I don’t understand why people focus on National Assembly. What is N37bn to renovate a complex that people are talking about?