As the Supreme Court puts an end to litigations over the governorship election in Delta State, the need for inclusive governance takes center stage, INNEH BARTH, writes The Supreme Court  a fortnight ago upheld the election of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State. The Apex Court verdict brought an end to the  long litigation between Okowa and the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Great Ogboru. Ogboru and his party, APC, had challenged the declaration of Okowa and PDP, by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as winners of the governorship election held on March 9, 2019 alleging electoral irregularities and over voting. Ogboru who won only two local government areas had petitioned the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal in Asaba, the Delta State capital and sought among other reliefs, a declaration that the total votes for him should be 215,938 while that of the 1st respondent (Okowa) and 2nd respondent (PDP) should be 155,192 votes. According to INEC, Okowa scored a total of 925,274 votes to beat his closest rival, Ogboru who garnered 215,938 votes. Total registered votes was 2,831,205, accredited votes stood at 1,188,784, while rejected votes amounts to 24,147. Valid votes was 1,154,188 just as total votes cast was 1,178,335. PDP won all the local councils, except Ughelli North and Ethiope East LGAs where results proved a keen contest. Nevertheless, Ogboru, in his prayers at the court, asked that the certificate of return issued to the 1st and 2nd respondents be declared null and void. He sought to be returned governor having scored the highest number of lawful votes cast. The APC candidate also demanded that the 3rd respondent (INEC) issue him with the certificate of return as duly elected Governor of Delta State. He tendered 5,375,672 documents to the Justice Suleiman Belgore led Delta State Elections Petition Tribunal Panel. The documents tendered includes polling units voter register for the 3894 polling units, including that of registration areas and wards. Also tendered were forms EC8A, EC8B, EC8C, EC8D, and EC8E used for the March 9 Delta State gubernatorial election from polling unit, ward, local government area and state levels. He also tendered polling units voter register numbering about 320 documents for Aniocha South, Ndokwa East,Bomadi and Burutu L.G.A’s. The tribunal dismissed Ogboru’s petition.  Chairman of the tribunal, Justice Sulaiman Belgore who delivered the judgment in Asaba, dismissed all the grounds of the petition saying that the petitioners did not prove their case beyond reasonable doubts as required by law. In a scathing verdict, he said, “The petition was badly drafted, devoid of details and insufficient data. The case of the petitioner remains unproven”. Furthermore, Belgore declared that due to insufficient data given by the counsel of the petitioner, it is incorrect to contest that the first respondent, Okowa did not have a majority of lawful votes in the 2019 Governorship. “Of 896 polling units in which over voting was alleged to have been recorded, the petitioner only brought five party agents as witnesses as other 15 witnesses were ward or collation agents,” he noted. Dissatisfied with the judgment of the tribunal, Ogboru again approached the Appeal Court in Abuja with a 37 grounds of appeal filed by his counsel, Nicholson Ichekor. He asked the appellate court to set aside the entire judgment of the tribunal on the grounds that it erred in law when it dismissed their appeal for lacking in merit. The court in Abuja also dismissed the Ogboru appeal for lacking in merit. In unanimous decision by a panel of five justices, the court affirmed the decisions of the tribunal which upheld the victory of Okowa as governor of the state. The panel also held that the appellant was unable to mention at least one accredited voters who did not vote in the election, nor was he able to call at least an agent of the political party who on the point of law is the most qualified person to testify in a case of over-voting. The court, however, dismissed the entire appeal for lacking in merit and affirmed the decisions of the tribunal which upheld the victory of Ifeanyi Okowa in the March 2019 governorship election. No cost was however awarded against the appellant. Ogboru was undeterred. He approached the apex court to test the efficacy of the judgments of the two lower courts. Alas, the Supreme Court equally upheld the election of Okowa, saying that the appeal was a waste of the precious time of the apex court. The court in its ruling dismissed the application of Ogboru after listening to the submission of the applicant and respondents. In a judgment delivered by Justice Centus Nweze, the court held that the appellant, Ogboru failed to prove allegations of over-voting. He said that the appeal is a waste of the precious time of the apex court, adding that the decisions of the apex court on the position of card readers were too numerous to begin to mention or for the appellants to claim ignorant of. With the legal dispute over, the need for inclusive governance is expected to take center stage in the state. Pundits aver that political actors, especially in the ruling party, are expected to refocus their attention to fulfilling their campaign promises. The APC, in Delta State seems to have moved on as well even though it vows to keep holding the ruling party in the state to account on quality governance. Although the APC said it is shocked by the judgement of the Supreme Court, it added that the judgement is final, noting their belief that the learned Justices of the Supreme Court are not infallible. Publicity secretary, APC in Delta State, said Barr. Ogheneluemu Sylvester Imonina, while congratulating Okowa, however said, “we want to state unequivocally that APC, Delta State as a responsible and responsive Party will continue to point out the ills of the PDP led government of Delta State whenever the need arises. “The governor should know that he is a governor for all Deltans, not a particular section of the State or few persons. The needful should be done at all times in the area of employment and execution of quality and masses’ oriented projects. “As for all APC faithful in Delta State and Deltans, we urge you not to lose hope in our quest for a better Delta State. This is the time to come together and make sure that all our shortcomings are corrected for our good and the good of all Deltans.” Okowa who attributed his victory at the Supreme Court to God’s favour, said it was God’s arrangement that ensured he emerged victorious at the poll against all odds. He noted that since 1999 when Nigeria return to democratic governance, God has made it possible to ensure that a governor from Delta Central emerged and ruled the state for two term and another governor emerged from Delta south who also ruled for two term and now is the turn of a governor from Delta North. He said the arrangement was perfected by God to ensure that there is peace in the state, adding that time has come for governance. He urged the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Great Ogboru to think more of the state and join hands with his government in building a strong Delta state. “I want to appeal to all politician to stop the campaign for 2023 elections because there is still time. Now that the litigations are over it is time for governance. I call on my opponent to join hands with me to develop our dear state, because if God permits he can still be the governor of the State.” Reacting to the judgment in an interview with LEADERSHIP, the deputy speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Christopher Ochor Ochor, described the verdict of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, affirming Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as the winner of the 2019 gubernatorial election, as a victory for a stronger, better and healthier Delta State. Ochor said that the verdict of the court had only affirmed the decision of the people on election day, which was the victory of the PDP and that of the then candidate of the party, Okowa. “This Judgement is affirming the votes of Deltans on the 9rd of March 2019. And what this Judgement further means is for stronger, better and a healthier Delta.” The deputy speaker congratulated the entire structure of the party in the state, and at the national level, calling on all Deltans to join hands with the Okowa led government to move the state forward and to achieve the dream of a stronger Delta, as the victory is for Deltans. “This victory is for the development of the state, irrespective of our differences in politics and culture, we have to pull our resources and join hands with the government of Senator Ifeanyi Okowa as the driver to move ahead. “I congratulate our great party, the Peoples Democratic Party, I congratulate our amiable governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, and most of all, the people and friends of our state,” he said. Now that the focus has shifted to ensuring development in the state, there will be need to ensure that such developments are not just inclusive but sustainable, a political analyst, Ibekwe Erondu stated. Erondu told LEADERSHIP that the tendency for second term governors to abandon governance for the politics who succeeds them in office should also be checked. “Over the years, we have seen and heard the narrative of how governors who performed well in their first term end up being distracted to the extent that they often perform below par in their second term. I hope the governor will not fall into this category of governors,” he added. Political activist and legal practitioner, Kennedy Obiozor, however holds that the task of ensuring that the governor does not derail lies in the ability of the opposition party to gulanise the people of the state to hold the administration accountable. “It is not enough to expect that the governor should do the right things with regards to development of the state. The opposition needs to be proactive in the way it holds the government in power to account. But so doing they will energize the populace to be conscious of their rights both as citizens and as owners of the mandate the governor currently holds,” he added.