Last week, the news broke over the unbundling of  Mass Communication programme in universities into seven separate degree programmes by the National University Commission(NUC). The commission had revealed that the development was expected to take effect from 2020 admissions into Nigerian universities. The news was received with mixed feelings by many, most especially stakeholders in the field. The issue even became confusing when an online report stated that the NUC, had phased out Mass Communication Degree in Nigeria institutions, with the explanation that there will be no more Mass Communication as a degree programme in universities in Nigeria. However, the Director of Corporate Affairs of the Commission, Ibrahim Yakassai, had come up to explain that Mass Communication was unbundled and not phased out. Yakassai stated that Mass Communication will still be a course for universities but any university who wanted to offer specialised courses can do so in Public Relations, Advertising, cinematography, broadcasting, film and multimedia studies, development communications studies, information and media studies as degree courses. “We have unbundled means we have broken it into seven-degree programmes for universities wishing to adopt it, but, those who wish to retain mass communication as it is, are also allowed to retain it. “This is in line with trends all over the world. We will retain the Mass Communication for those universities that have not yet developed the full competencies in the areas,” he said. Last year, around February, the news of the ‘unbundling’ filtered the airwaves. A document containing a new curricula for communication studies in Nigerian universities, which sought to unbundle mass communication and create seven-degree awarding departments to be domiciled under a School/College of Communication in its place, was said to have been presented to the Executive Secretary of the NUC, Abubakar Rasheed, in Abuja. While receiving the document, the Executive Secretary of the NUC, Abubakar Rasheed was reported to have said that a review of the Mass Communication curriculum was long overdue and promised to expedite action in the process of finalising and adopting the curricula. LEADERSHIP had immediately sought the opinion of stakeholders on the issue. While some had believed that the move will expose students to the new trend and new media, others thought that the move was not necessary. Reacting, the Chairman, NIPR, Ogun State and a Senior Lecturer, Department of Mass Communication, Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Lekan Togunwa, had welcomed the proposal adding that it will help enhance competence in one’s area of specialization as it is the new deal across the world. Togunwa had then however stressed that the gaps were still there and as such NUC needed to test the waters and do a pilot study before introducing the proposed unbundling immediately. “As a Mass Communication scholar I know that even though you study mass communication eventually you will need to specialize in one area or field that will eventually define your path but it is also accompanied with having knowledge of other areas. “So while focusing on a specific field will no doubt have its advantages, the disadvantages can’t be ignored because this would mean the student may not be exposed to other aspects of mass communication. They can be a master of one but their competence must be sharpened across other disciplines,” he said. Another Mass Communication Lecturer, MAPOLY, Dotun Oladipupo had said “A whole lot of concept are emerging in the communication world today especially with the reality of new technology. This new curriculum seeks to cover the new thinking and new trend of mass communication that have been available to only people who have been practicing, attend seminars and conferences, which will now be exposed to our students. “It is affirming what has already been with us, only that they weren’t in the curriculum formally. And with Nigeria still evolving in technology it would serve as a guidepost for resource persons in communication including scholars, professors to be conscious that we have to input all aspect of communication into many processes.” Also reacting to the issue, Senior Lecturer in the Department of Journalism, Lagos State University School of Communication (LASUSOC), Tunde Akanni PhD, said that the idea was welcoming because it must have been a manifestation of active research and proactiveness on the part of the leadership of communication scholarship in Nigeria. “Indeed it is in line with the trend around the world and it is worth noting that the industry to be fed with mass communication graduates isn’t static either,” he said. Similarly, a Lecturer, LASUSOC, Olasunkanmi Arowolo, said the proposal to a large extent will address key areas of broad mass communication discipline and encourage specialization of individuals. Some students were also in support of the issue when LEADERSHIP sought their opinion last year. A graduate of Mass Communication, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, (UNN), Chikezie Okeke said that the move was a right one as students will now have the opportunity to specialize in the branches of Mass Communication they deem it fit. “It will help the student a great deal. Usually, we just study all and do not even master any. I think it is better to just pick the one you want to specialize in and be perfect in it,” she had said. However, another graduate, in the field, Emmanuel Nwadi added that with the streamlining of the courses, the students are left with just few choices when they graduate. “When i got admission into the university to read Mass Communication, I just wanted to be a presenter in a television station. In my school, we were taught all the fields of Mass Communications. So when I came out after graduation, I went straight to Television houses looking for a job but didn’t see any. I later got a job in a Newspaper house. That was how my dream to become a presenter in a TV station was dashed. I enjoy writing now. I don’t really regret choosing this but my argument  was that if all the fields were not taught to me, I would have been  stuck,” he said. A journalist, who sought anonymity also shared the same idea with Nwadi. For him, Mass Communication is supposed to be all-encompassing which can make room for modern communication and as such its introduction will not favour job seekers. “Nigeria is a complex society where what works in other developed countries doesn’t work here. If one is opportuned to get a job in a broadcast media, will it now mean that because the person majored in maybe print, he won’t be able to get the job?” He asked. A 300 level student, taking Public Relations and Advertising (PRAD), LASUSOC, Mariam Ileyemi expressing her disapproval said there is no need unbundling the course as it could restrict the chances of employment. “Mass Communication as a discipline is unique. I for one I major in PRAD but borrow courses in other mass communication fields. At the end of the day, I will graduate as a Bachelor of Science (B.Sc) in Mass Communication, that is, I can apply for any media firm, as long as I have what it takes. “But new curriculum or not, there is no job in this country. The most important thing is for the Nigerian government to improve in the area of facilities for practicals and research and provide more employment opportunities for communication graduates,” she said. As the ‘unbundling’ story resurfaced this year, reactions remain the same. Some in support while others not. Fielding answers to questions from journalists in Bauchi at the weekend, the National President of NUJ Chris Isiguzo confirmed that the NUJ was fully in support of the unbundling adding that the union was an initiator of the exercise by NUC. He revealed that it was what was obtained in developed countries and that Nigeria needed to catch up with the trend. “We are a party to the unbundling exercise. In fact, we initiated the idea. This is what is obtainable in developed countries, so we’re trying to catch up. We need a situation where professionals will graduate and will have good knowledge of what they went to school to study in school. Mass Communication is a compound course to master in 4 years,” he said. Isiguzo further stated that the NUJ, Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON), Nigerian Institute Public Relations (NIPR), Radio, Television, Theater and Arts Workers Union (RATTAWU) were all in support of the idea. Also speaking, a Freelance Journalist and a blogger, Emmanuel Koleosho stated that the unbundling of the department was well overdue. “ Several higher institutions all over the world have since moved pass this stage. For example, in University of Lagos( UNILAG), in your senior year, you’re actually required to major on a particular section of the Mass Communication department as opposed to what is obtainable in the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), which was a scratching of the surface in its entirety. Koleosho who stated that education as a whole was evolving, believes that the unbundling will help bring out graduates who are up to date with modern realities and the latest information about their field. “Let’s push sentiments aside. And if you’re wondering what impact it would have on our certificates; I mean for those of us with degree in Mass Communication? – I think none. It would still be on record that we studied Mass Communications, like for me, in the prestigious Jackson School of Journalism, UNN as a course when it was yet to be unbundled. “If anything, it’s a reserved privilege. People who graduated from Obafemi Awolowo University when it was officially known as University of Ife are no less graduates than those who graduate under the school’s current name. Posterity will always make room for history to take its rightful place and glory,” he said. Speaking further on the issue, a lecturer in the Mass Communcation department, Benue State University, Makurdi, Hile-Iorpagher Msoo, explained that many people might not understand what the unbundling implies. “It simply means that Mass Communication is too broad to be offered as a single degree ( not single honour) due to its many branches we call sequences such as broadcasting or broadcast/ film sequence , print sequence or journalism, public relations and advertising, development communication etc. This is narrowing down from general to specific,” she explained. According to her, Mass Communication is indeed in the words of the late communication General, Prof. Ikechukwu Nwosu, “one course, many professions” and the unbundling was a welcomed development. However, the Head of Mass Communication department, UNN, Dr Edith Ohaja who was peeved over the confusion in the news about the issue stated that instead of the unbundling, the best thing was for schools to develop their area of strength in programmes that they chose. The HOD is of the opinion that the federal government should concentrate on funding the schools to provide equipment, infrastructure and manpower that will help bring about better grounded graduates that will do the nation proud. “Our problem has been equipment and manpower to build the required technical competence in students within their four-year programme. Splitting the programme without addressing these deficiencies will get us nowhere. Abroad, schools run different programmes. Some offer Mass Communication while others offer different arms of it in separate department. It is not how wide or narrow departments are that matter but how well instruction is carried out,” she said. However, all said and done, stakeholders in the profession agree that something drastic needed to be done in order to help bring about graduates who are experts in their chosen career. “I am disappointed in the level of Mass Communication  graduates being churned out every year. I have seen intern students who come to the newsroom and behave abnormally. Some of them know nothing and one begin to wonder want exactly they have been learning in school. Something really needs to be done. Unbundling of the course might be a start,” Adaeze Chigozie, an Editor of a daily paper in Abuja concluded.