Senator Ibrahim Mohammed Bomoi, the son of Emir of Potiskum, Alhaji Umaru Bubaram, and other well-meaning of citizens of Yobe State have condemned the gunmen attack on the emir, killing three of his aides along Kaduna- Zaria highway. In his reaction, Senator Ibrahim, representing Yobe South at the National Assembly, condoled with the family of those killed in the attack and urged the emir to continue his selfless contributions to the building of his immediate domain and the nation in general. He also condemned the attack describing it as mindless, said the attack also amounted to disrespect for the traditional institution, which the referred monarch represents. “It is unimaginable that emir of Pataskum, who is fully in support of the return of peace to the Northeastregion that stands troubled because of the numerous crises facing the region will be the target of the attackers,” he said. Similarly, narrating what happened in a chat with our correspondent via telephone, the son of the emir, Brister Abubakar Umaru Babaram, said the incident happened around Fandatio village, not far from Maraban Jos around 2:09am on while on tour of traditional institutions across the North as part of preparations for the official commissioning of Potiskum Central Mosque scheduled for January 18, 2020. He described the incident as a sacrilegious assault on the respected traditional institution, adding, “we are deeply saddened by the wave of attacks and urged those behind the dastardly acts to have a rethink.” However, a former special adviser on media and strategy to Former Governor of Yobe state Senator Bukar Abba, Ibrahim Mohammed Jirgi, has urged the security agencies to ensure that those behind the attack on the Emir and other Nigerians are brought to book. He described the attack as “a violent assault on our respected traditional institution’’, he also urged the Emir not to give up in his selfless contributions to the state and the nation in general. Jirgi, urged security agencies to rise to the challenge by fishing out the perpetrators, even as he appealed to well-meaning individuals with information on the hideouts of perpetrators of crime in the country to make such available to the security agencies. In his own part, the member representing Potiskum/Nangere federal consistency in the House of Representatives, Alhaji Ibrahim Umar, commiserated with the families of those who lost their lives in the attack as well as others that have been killed in series of such attacks in the country. LEADERSHIP weekend learnt that, the emir survived, but his three guards were killed when gunmen attacked the Potiskum emir on his way to Abuja from Potiskum Local Government Area of Yobe State.