Nothing breaks the heart than seeing kids roaming the streets, soaked in dirt, scraggy body and almost emaciated with bowl in hand and begging for what to eat. These aren’t children displaced by war but kids forced out, separated from the bosom of their mothers and sent in search of Arabic education. Yes, we are talking about the choking reality of the almajiri system in northern Nigeria where kids are painfully separated from their parents and sent far away into the field of uncertainty. As a parent, nothing makes the heart sore than this excruciating reality. The irony of this reality is that the parents of these abandoned kids pray five times daily. How do you face God when you have thrown away the gift given to you by the same God? What really is the fault of these kids you begot only to be thrown to the street? The Arabic voyage you sent them for, I have never seen any almajiri kid winning any Arabic contest anywhere. If learning Arabic under the biting cold, hot weather and drenching rain is a virtue, how come kids of rich Muslims aren’t seen on the street learning Arabic? This is insanity of the highest order, parents pushing their children away from their bosom. Why beget a child that you won’t have around you? To get the narrative more explicit, I will attempt to paint in gory template the excruciating journey of the almajiri child from childhood to adulthood – a narrative I have always used year in year out to sustain the clarion call. In effortless ceremony, a man got hitched to his wife and swiftly, a family setting begun. In no time, Allah blesses them with a boy and joy raided the air. Just as the boy clocks three years, he is escorted by his father into the city to learn the Quran. Yes, a three-year-old is forcefully pulled away from his mother to God knows where! The father returns home to the embrace of his wife in ‘kulle.’ Putus -another baby is on the way as the first one is left forgotten. The mallam in his wisdom has been blessed by Allah and using his economic dexterity, he sends the poor child into the street to ask for arms. In the harshest of the street, the three-year-old boy learns survival instincts. He battles ruggedly against unexpected elements. In no time, he becomes a champion of the street. Unfortunately, he is cut off from the affinity of family bonds, he has no relations to share feelings with as this lad is left for the street to mould into her dictates. He becomes vicious, angry and paranoid. To subdue his anger against his mallam, he is told never to question his conditions as it is Allah’s will for him. He is told to hate those who don’t belong to his religion and with unmitigated fury, he brews in anger against the people in the society. With age catching up with him, the street becomes uninhabitable for him. No one gives alms to an able-bodied man. He resorts to crime-from picking pockets to petty stealing and eventually to violent crimes. He is completely a nuisance to the society. The lucky ones amongst his peers are recruited into political thuggery and others brainwashed into religious fundamentalism. As the circle of the almajiri life continues, he is arrested for any of the crimes above and made to serve jail terms. After years in confinement, he comes out more bitter, frustrated and hopeless. With no task to do, he takes to selling water and riding Okada. Again, he continues his romance with the streets. Like a walking corpse, he moves around with fist of furry and stained mind of hate. He is quick to start a fight because he has nothing to lose. Because you are too sophisticated to him, you treat him with disdain and quick to pour verbal venom on him. In the blink of an eye, he draws out his pocket knife and presses it to your fine body. While you writhe in pain, he flees into the street because that is where he belongs. You learn a lesson never to engage the almajiri. As he becomes suppressed, eventually by age, he becomes weak in the hustles of the streets and resorts finally to begging as curtain of life draws on him. As he battles to bid farewell to his unfair life, he looks back at the offspring of his groin -the next almajiris of his legacy. Tearfully musing Continues next week.