Organisers of the annual Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) said President Muhammadu Buhari will be on ground to declare the 2020 edition scheduled to hold in Abuja from February 9 – 13, open. According to a statement signed by the Nigeria Petroleum Summit project director & chief executive, Brevity Anderson, James Shindi, the minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, gave the assurance in a special podcast monitored on the official Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources social media handles. The minister, who also declared his readiness to host the global oil community in Abuja, said, “I look forward to personally receiving you in Abuja for the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) on behalf of the Federal Government and the people of Nigeria.” “NIPS, the official oil and gas meeting of the federal government, has over the years evolved into a must attend industry vent for all industry stakeholders.’’ He also said the focus of the upcoming NIPS 2020 edition will be on “widening the integration circle, emerging technologies and cross pollination of ideas as we build on the success of previous editions”. Sylva said that with full backing of the federal government, NIPS 2020 will guarantee the attendance of top decision makers and industry leaders from all over the world. Already, confirmed guests include H.E Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo, Secretary-General, Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); H.E Younghoon David Kim, Chairman, World Energy Council; H.E Mahaman Laouan Gaya, Secretary-General, African Petroleum Producers’ Organisation (APPO); H.E Dr. Sun Xiansheng, Secretary-General, International Energy Forum (IEF) amongst other reputable international stakeholders. Also confirmed to attend are Tony Attah, managing director, Nigeria LNG Limited; Osagie Okunbor, managing director, SPDC/Chairman, Shell Companies in Nigeria; Michael Sangster-Managing Director & Chief Executive, Total E&P Nigeria Limited (TEPNG); Paul McGrath, Chairman OPTS/Managing Director, Exxonmobil; Simbi K. Wabote, Executive Secretary Nigeria Content Development & Monotoring Board (NCDMB); Mele Kolo Kyari, Group Managing Director, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). NIPS is a federal government of Nigeria official petroleum industry event with the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources and all its parastatals including the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Nigeria Content Development & Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) are joint hosts.