A Calabar based cleric and General Overseer of Christian Central Chapel international CCCI Bishop Dr. Emmah Isong has predicted that former Vice President/ Presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, would reconcile with his former political foes so as to properly position himself for the 2023 polls. Isong made the prediction while reading out the 2020 prediction at cross over night held at CCCI (Faith Mansion ) world headquarters Calabar to usher in year 2020,stressing that he foresees very turbulent times that await former Governor of River State now Transport Minister, Rotimi Ameachi. The cleric stated that former Vice president Atiku Abubakar is going to make reconciliation with his political enemies to position himself properly in politics again. “Get ready for shocker reconciliations”, Stressing that there would be strange political realignment,and collaborations of old time political enemies in 2020.” Isong maintained. Those of you that use to die for politicians, you will notice that the person you were dying for has made peace with his enemies. Then you will know that politics is a game. And that a high level they don’t take it the way you do. The cleric who also doubles as the National Publicity Secretary of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), also predicted a shake up that will erupt in the department of state security service DSS following arrests of Nigerians, a development the gospel preacher predicted may lead to shake up in the service. On anti-corruption issue, the cleric said, a there would be big discovery of years of leakage linked to the banking sector by the CBN that would have changed the lives of Nigerians over over the years have been uncovered and plunged back to the economy. Isong predicted that a certain criminal/mafia gang perpetrating atrocities in the country shall meet its waterloo and urged young people to desist forthwith from street fight or be prepare to face the consequence that awaits anyone that gets himself involved in street or public fight. “Stay away from public fight, because there is going to be serious clamped down on breach of public peace and many may be entrapped”. Isong warned. On government sectors that shall experience a boom, the cleric predicted that the Nigeria Wharfs and Seaports and maritime businesses would once again experience a boom. “In 2020, there shall be a welcoming and overwhelming government policies on Nigeria wharfs and seaports and sea travels, and maritime businesses will boom again”. The cleric predicted that there would be a lot of public out cry over monetary loses particularly among Nigerians who invest unregistered business ventures that the owners were not easily fish out whenever such businesses face a hitch. “those of you that hear about investment and run. Please you can keep your money with your wife instead of running to invest in business areas whose future you know not”. Isong maintained.