Kenvic Global Foundation (KGF), a humanitarian and girl-child education advocacy NGO, on Thursday launched a campaign against teenage pregnancy in Secondary Schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) . The campaign tagged, “Reproductive Health Talk/Anti-teenage Pregnancy Campaign 2020”, took place at the Junior Secondary School, Narai, Karu. The foundation also donated educational materials, including notebooks, to the students, and as well distributed sanitary pads to female students of the school. Volunteer public health experts and counselors of KGF had interactive sessions with the students, where they were given opportunities to ask questions on reproductive health. Ms Anulika Njemanze, Lead Coordinator of the Foundation, said the initiative was to imbibe moral discipline in the students to enable them shun teenage vices and safeguard their future. According to her, the foundation, among other initiatives, empowers and provides medical and educational assistance to young women, especially the vulnerable ones. She noted that since many teenage girls were not well enlightened on how their body worked, they remained ignorant and even fall prey to sexual molestation and other tendencies that endanger their lives. “Teenage pregnancy is increasing these days, so the Kenvic Global Foundation has decided to create a platform for a culture that encourages discussions and makes adequate education for our teens. “Their building process involves everyone, because it goes beyond the classroom, especially on sensitive things about their reproductory system and their future. “So we are beginning this year with this campaign to selected secondary schools in the FCT, especially those in the rural areas,”she said She noted that the foundation decided to provide the sanitary pads as respite to the female students, since their peculiar nature makes their upkeep financially- involving than their male counterparts. Head -Boy of the school, 14-year-old Yunus Abdulraheem, expressed gratitude on behalf of the students, and urged his mates to apply the moral lessons they were taught by the foundation. “I am very happy to be a part of this seminar on reproductive health and anti-teenage pregnancy, because what we learnt will guide us in our educational journey. “We have been told that sexual immorality, cultism and other bad behaviours will hinder our bright future.” Also, 14-year-old Head-girl of the school, Miss Favour Obioma, said: “ We have been told to be careful with the opposite sex so that we will not fall into premarital sex and destroy our future. “I want to say thank you to this foundation, and urge other ones to emulate them,” she said.