In this report, SUNDAY ISUWA writes on how widows and orphans started the New Year in tiny Sambam village of Kaduna State Life generally is said to be about helping and affecting the downtrodden positively and in a Kaduna community, the donation received at the end of 2019 and the beginning of 2020 by a foundation is a perfect example. It was not just a New Year for the widows and orphans in Sambam community, Jaba Local Government Area of Kaduna State, an area lying about 200 kilometres north of Nigeria’s capital, Abuja. While many Nigerians were celebrating the Christmas and the New Year in various forms, it was a life-changing opportunity for the less privileged in Sambam as the Caleb Danladi Foundation set up a computer centre in the area and donated other items to the people. The life-changing donation, many believe, is a direct way of tackling poverty and illiteracy in the community. While the computer centre was donated to the community for the training of the youths in modern form of education, beds, mattresses, wrappers, bags, uniforms and cash were also handed over to Byabhyih Shezhi Dadu Orphanage Home, an establishment giving hope to children that were abandoned or who lost their loved ones. Many held that the donation by Caleb Danladi Foundation was noble which would also change the fortune of the youths and the less privileged in the area for the better. While donating the items to Byabhyih Shezhi Orphanage Home, the founder of the organisation, Capt Caleb Danladi, said that the decision to distribute the items was aimed at eradicating poverty and reduce the rate of crime in Southern Kaduna. “Why the Foundation is focusing toward widows is that they’re the most vulnerable set of people in the society,” Danladi said, adding that those sets of people are deprived of their spouses properties when they lost them. “And you realise they can’t be able to send their children to school,” Danladi said of the widows insisting the foundation is on a mission of renewing the hope of the less privileged. “The foundation is trying to reawaken and renew their hope to achieve their dreams in life when they thought their dreams are already shattered,” Danladi said of the windows and the orphans. “The foundation is trying to assist those who cannot pay their schools fees and give hope to the hopeless to ensure they have a better future. “If you look at the crime rate in the society today, you would found out that children of the widows are mostly the ones perpetrating it simply because they don’t have access to basic education,” Danladi said. He explained that the foundation is making efforts at ensuring that orphans do not only have access to basic education but to also have knowledge about life to enable them remain focused, resilient and determined to achieve their dreams. Caleb who is a marine expert observed that poverty rate in Southern Kaduna region is extremely high stressing that most of the widows are living in abject poverty. “I call on Southern Kaduna sons and daughters to return home and invest in the lives of the orphans and the widows so that we can have a better society,” Danladi said adding that in 2020, his foundation would select some women and train them in agriculture, sewing and other traits with starter packs provided. “We are also focusing on training our youth on computers so that they can be able to write JAMB effectively. We want them to go to school and make a meaningful life in the society,” he said. The philanthropist who said the foundation is fully funded from his personal earning, said he has no local neither international support. “I am just passionate about rendering humanitarian service to the downtrodden. This is coming from my personal salary. I remove part of my salary monthly to run the NGO,” Danladi added. The gesture by the foundation has triggered other NGOs and religious bodies in the area to volunteer in the training of the youths and the widows. Founder of Hope Builders, Rev Mathias Yashim, who was a guest speaker during the presentation of computer centre to the community,  said his NGO would partner Caleb Danladi Foundation to sensitise, train and empower some selected widows in the areas of sewing, fashion and agriculture in order to make them self-reliant. “We must begin to teach people how to make money through small businesses to reduce the rate of poverty and crime in our society,” Mathias said of the plans he had for the less privileged in the area. Also, the Founder of Byabhyih Shezhi orphanage home, Mrs Fatu Shamaki, who thanked Danladi for the support, described the gesture as a massive way of improving the welfare of the people and alleviate the suffering of the widows and orphans. According to her, she started the orphanage home with a token of N30,000 some years back adding that the support of like-minds had kept them moving. “We have a lot of orphans who are now in secondary schools and in the universities,” Fatu said of the orphanage home. A resident of Sambam community who is also a beneficiary of the Caleb Danladi Foundation, Mrs Alheri Kato, commended the philanthropist for returning home to alleviate their suffering. She said:  “Caleb is not the richest person in our community but he has done what many politicians can’t do. With the establishment of the Computer Centre, my son is going to be enroled and he is writing JAMB next year.” LEADERSHIP reports that in 2019, several communities including Kajuru IDP camp, Kagoma community, Afana community and Kwoi community all in the southern part of Kaduna benefitted from the scheme. For 2020, the foundation said it would focus on empowerment which will see it training more youths and widows. The computer centre, it was gathered, would train the youths on computer programming, web design and computer graphics which in the future, can become a Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) CBT centre. On infrastructure, it was gathered that the NGO is currently building a primary school in Kampani community, Kagarko LGA of the state which many believed will improve access to education in the village. 