BaxiBox, of the licenced agent banking platforms by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has unveiled a strategy with the aim of creating national awareness for its multiple financial services across the country for the unconnected. Speaking during the formal launch of the campaign yesterday in Lagos, the managing director of Capricorn Digital Limited, the company behind the financial platform BaxiBox, `Degbola Abudu said the launch of the campaign became necessary in order to avail Nigerians of the unique and innovative services available on the Baxi Platform. “We have created a one-stop-shop payment ecosystem aimed at providing everyday financial access and solutions to our agents and customers while creating core services that directly impact their daily lives. “At the heart of the company is innovation and technical excellence, which drives the business to strive to find new ways to create economic value for our agents and customers. We ensure quality, stability, and security across our platforms,” he said. Abudu stated that the adoption of a multi-channel distribution approach that includes devices such as BaxiBox, BaxiPos, and BaxiMpos, web (BaxiPay), Mobile App and API (Business-to-Business) services are tailored to meet the needs of a wide variety of stakeholders including agents, customers and corporate clients. He said Capricorn Digital Limited (CDL) is a Super-Agent licensed by CBN and is a member of the SANEF (Shared Agent Network Expansion Facility) program, a project powered by the CBN, Deposit Money Banks, Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement Systems, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, licenced Mobile Money Operators and Shared Agents with the primary objective of accelerating financial inclusion in Nigeria. The company, which is also a grantee of EFInA – a development organization that promotes financial inclusion in Nigeria funded by the UK Government’s Department for International Development (DFID) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation – has been in existence for over four years and has created a unique and stress free digital payments and distribution platform targeted at the mass market through the BaxiBox. “As a business, we are dedicated to consistently delivering value to our clients through the use of our technology which is a safe, secure and easy way to complete transactions. We aim at simplifying the buying experience for the end consumer, providing speed, convenience, and confidence for the users,” he said. Abudu noted that an important part of the company’s value proposition is the technology platform, which he said can aggregate and integrate into a wide range of digital products and services, and also serves as a means to empower the immediate community to access financial services (Financial Inclusion). “Our Mission is to bring a wide bouquet of digital products and services to grass root and mass market consumers through innovation, technology and a world class retail distribution network that is driven primarily by agents and merchants. “We have created a one-stop-shop payment ecosystem aimed at providing everyday financial access and solutions to our agents and customers while creating core services that directly impact their daily lives. “At the heart of the company is innovation and technical excellence, which drives the business to strive to find new ways to create economic value for our agents and customers”, added.