Founder of the Prince Ned Nwoko Foundation, Prince Ned Nwoko, has said that fumigation of the whole of the Nigerian space was a necessary step in eradicating the scourge of malaria from the country, promising to carry out the unprecedented task soonest. Nwoko made the disclosure on Sunday during at an interactive session with journalists at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport in Abuja shortly on his arrival from Antarctica, where he had gone on an expedition in finding lasting solutions to malaria in Nigeria and Africa. Nwoke said he chose to visit the continent of Antarctica, where he also hoisted the Nigerian national flag, in order to draw global attention to his malaria eradication campaign for Nigeria and Africa. LEADERSHIP reports that Antarctica is the southernmost continent and site of the South Pole, which is a virtually uninhabited and ice-covered landmass. “Before this journey, I had a press briefing last month to tell you about my mission to Antarctica. I have gone and come back and I tell you it was a successful trip. Antarctica is a continent that is about the same size as Africa. Antarctica is bigger than America and Canada put together. I was there, first, to create awareness for the eradication of malaria, which is a big problem in Nigeria and other parts of Africa. “While in Antarctica I had a meeting with some scientists because this project involves two solutions. The first one is to clean up Nigeria, we must clean up Nigeria. In other words, we must fumigate Nigeria. We must look at all the sanitations that has to be done to clean up Nigeria’’. “Then the second one which is the most important one is the research. A research that I believe should be conducted in about five universities across the continent for the single purpose of trying to discover a vaccine for malaria. There is no reason why we should not have a vaccine for malaria. We have vaccines for other ailments from polio to typhoid to the rest of them. So, malaria is the biggest killer and the time has come for all the stakeholders to join hands together to make sure that a solution is found, we can make it,” he said. Nwoko further revealed that the planned research across African universities to find a potent vaccine for malaria will be kick-started in February even as he added that he had already met the pilot that will carry out the fumigation of Nigeria during his Antarctica trip. “It’s a very serious project. You might think Nigeria is such a huge place that nobody can possibly think of fumigating the whole country but it will be done. They have done it in Malaysia, they have done in Florida and it will be done here in Nigeria,” the philanthropist assured.