The Plateau State Internal Revenue Service (PSIRS) yesterday announced that the state generated N16. 48 billion internal revenue during the 2019 fiscal year in spite of the harsh economic climate in the country. Acting chairman of PSIRS, Mr Dashe Arlat, who disclosed this in Jos at a news briefing on the activities of the service in 2019, said the amount represented 89 per cent of the State’s 2019 revenue target of N18 billion and 111.5 per cent of the service’s N12. 4 billion revenue targets. Arlat, who described the collection as “huge” and ‘encouraging’ commended PSIRS staff and some MDAs, whose collective efforts during the period under review brought about the great improvement. He said the 2019 IGR was a sharp departure from those of the past years, having surpassed its target by 111.5 percent. “What worked for us to achieve this feat was the expansion of zonal offices to 12 in the 17 local government areas of the state and expansion of our PAYE network,” he said. “We are pretty sure that if this tempo and speed is improved upon this year 2020, we shall surpass the state government’s target of N22 billion for the year. “To achieve this, we have strategised toward meeting our obligation of collecting taxes, fines and levies across both formal and informal sectors as well as all liabilities. “Already, a committee has been set up toward culminating and effectively putting into action all our strategies toward a result orientated fiscal year. ” The chairman said that part of the strategies was to improve on capturing tax payers from 400, 000 to one million as well harness the potential within the Ministry of Land and Survey. According to him, what is delaying the tapping of the viability in Land and Survey “is the right legislation which can give us the power to bite and bite hard and get good IGR there.” Arlat, who expressed his disappointment with the performance of the MDAs in 2019 having dropped from 2018’s N3. 46 billion to N2. 6 billion in 2019, said, “The MDAs must have a change of attitude toward revenue collection this year.” “What we expect from the Plateau public is commitment towards paying their taxes, fees and levies to the state so that the government will not fail them in its obligation to them in providing the desired social amenities.”