A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State and Convener of Unity House Foundation (UHF), Kingsley Wenenda Wali, has declared that there are no factions within the party in the state. The APC in the state has, since 2018, being divided into two major factions led by the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and former senator representing Rivers South-East senatorial district in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe. Recently, another faction, which prides itself the ‘Third Force’, emerged with two former members of the House of Representatives, Hon. Igo Aguma and Hon. Emmanuel Deeyah, as leaders. But, speaking in an interview with LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt, Wali, stated that what exist in the APC in the state are mere different tendencies that are jostling for power. He however expressed the hope that the crisis rocking the party in the state will be resolved at the end politically The APC chieftain said: “I don’t know about factions in the APC. I am aware of different tendencies, which is normal thing in any political party. “Don’t forget that party politics is all about struggle for power. Eventually, what you do with the power when you get it is what differentiates one tendency from the other. “So, I do not think that we have factions per say, but tendencies who are jostling for power within the APC family. You are aware than a known party is actually a cult; it is a free association of free citizens. Everybody is entitled to his own view or idea on how to achieve a particular purpose. “Now, in Rivers APC, what had happened is that a few people feel that their own way of achieving success is different from what some other people think. I think that is not enough to say that there are factions. “But, is there a crisis in APC? Yes! I will be deceiving myself if I say there is no crisis in APC. What happened is that these tendencies some of them have pushed it to the brim. I am sure that at the end of the day everything will be resolved politically.” 