Our celebrity profile of this week is none other than young sensational Nigerian music artist, beauty diva, song writer, singer, actor and performer Chidinma Ekile Hillary also known as Miss kedike. Chidinma enthralled Nigerians as a young contestant with a beguiling voice and charm at the third edition of the popular television reality MTN project fame in 2010. By sheer talent and determination, Chidinma won the competition and the hearts of fans worldwide till date, becoming the first female musician to peak at number 1 on the MTV Base official Naija Top Chart, bagging a Kora and reeling out soul music and beauty shoots. Early Life and Background Chidinma was born on the 2nd of May 1991 in Ketu, Lagos state, the sixth child of seven kids of her parents who hailed from Imo State Nigeria. Chidinma was born blind but regained her eyesight after 16 days. The talented songstress started singing at the young age of 6 and, at the age of 10, she wowed churchgoers with her voice. She attended primary and secondary school in Ketu before relocating with her family to Ikorodu. Chidinma was about to sit for her Post UME before auditioning for the MTN sponsored Project Fame competition. She was among 8,000 aspiring contestants who went for the auditions and was subsequently chosen alongside 17 others to advance to the Fame Academyy. Subsequently, she advanced to the Fame Academy round alongside 17 other contestants. For 10 weeks, Chidinma and the other contestants were coached by musical professionals: voice coaches, inspirational speakers, established musicians, and music business service providers. Moreover, contestants were taught choreography and several rehearsal drills. On 26 September 2010, Chidinma was announced as the winnerr of Project Fame season 3, wining a cash prize of N2.5 million, a Toyota RAV4 vehicle and a one-year recording deal .In May 2013, Chidinma signed an endorsement deal with MTN Nigeria Chidinma is currently studying sociology at the University of Lagos. She initially wanted to study mass communication. She declined her admission into the University of Lagos due to her advancement in the aforesaid competition. In an interview with YNaija, Chidinma said that she has always taken school seriously and her decision to enroll at Unilag was inevitable. She also said that music hasn’t always been on her agenda, but decided to give it a try after winning the MTN-sponsored Project Fame music competition Career And Achievements After working with Tobechukwu Ejiofor Melvin (ill Bliss) as her manager, she became the first female musician to peak at number 1 on the MTV Base official Naija Top Chart. In 2011, she released her self-titled debut studio album, “Jankolikolikoko”,emi ni baller “Chidinma” where she worked with producers like Tha Suspect, Teey Mix, Cobhams, Oscar, and Wiz boy, she eventually met Clarence Peters and got signed to his record label Capital Hill Record. The ambassador of MTN Nigeria contemporary afro pop singer, songwriter, performer and recording artiste since 2011 has worked with artistes like illbliss, Banky W, Tha Suspect, Wizkid, Flavor, Sound Sultan, Awilo, Toofan and more. She won her first award for the Best Female West African Act Category at the 2012 KORA Awards in Ivory Coast and the award plaque was presented to her by Didier Drogba.After winning the award, Chidinma said: “It was a huge honour to me. I’m grateful to God, my fans and people, who have been part of my success story. Winning KORA is a big achievement for me and I know it is the beginning of better things to come. She has cited Michael Jackson, Bob Marley, Alicia Keys, Whitney Houston, Mariah Carey, Fela Kuti, Omawumi, Onyeka Onwenu, Lagbaja and Darey Art Alade as her biggest musical influences. She has seen been nominated for numerous awards, wining Best Pop Extra Video Awards at the Nigerian Music Video Awards (NMVA) and the Student Choice Best RnB /Pop Artiste of the year at the Nigerian Oscar Award 2015. Artist To Actor. The kedike singer recently starred in her first movie, the bridge movie (2017) where she performed alongside Phyno and illbliss, she also performed (gone forever) in wives on strike which was produced by omoni oboli and also featured popular stars, The Bridge, which was released in cinemas nationwide on Friday the 9th of December, alongside Nigerian actor Demola Adedoyin. Produced by Lasun Ray and directed by Kunle Afolayan, the BoI-powered film tells the story of Stella (Chidinma Ekile), a young lady from a distinguished Igbo family, who falls in love with and secretly marries a Yoruba prince named Obadare (Demola Adedoyin) against her parent’s wish. The relationship becomes threatened by tribal prejudice and the consequences shake the very foundation and unity of both families, the star loves acting and hopes to feature in other movies. Philanthropy Chidinma’s non-profit foundation called MMA Foundation caters for people who are visually impaired and helps them achieve some of their goals. According to her.”Life is such a wonderful and colourful piece of art and it must feel like hell not to envision God’s creation. The MMA Charity Foundation is my little give back to the world.”The organization was named after her mom to thank her for never giving up on her in time of need. She has since done extensive work with her foundation in and outside Nigeria, most notably in Togo where she worked with SOS village. Personal Life/ Heartbreaks And Scandals. The sensational young singer has been linked to several alleged affairs, fortunately or unfortunately none of these relationships were ever confirmed. In 2013, Chidinma was alleged to have participated in a sex tape which was leaked onto the internet. She denied it was her, saying the female in the tape was just a look-alike. She has since said the experience was traumatic for her but thanked her family and friends for showing support and being there.Recently the singer was in eye of relationship drama with rumors of her alleged love affair with fellow music artist, Kiss Daniel gone sour just weeks before a rumoured marriage proposal between then was in the news.