The spate of recent measures announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to boost economic growth and encourage MSMEs, retail, mortgage and consumer lending has started yielding results, writes OLUSHOLA BELLO. With the directive by the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) of banks to channel 65 per cent of their lending to the real sector is impacting positively on access to credit. The CBN had in a letter to all Deposit Money Banks (DMBs), dated July, 03, 2019, mandated them to maintain a LDR of 60 per cent by September 30, 2019. The LDR is the portion of customers’ deposit that is given out as loans. The CBN further stated that failure to meet the regulatory requirement by the stated date would result in charge of an additional Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR) equal to 50 per cent of the lending shortfall of the target LDR. At the expiration of the September 30 deadline, the CBN debited the accounts of 12 DMBs to the tune of N499.18 billion for failing to comply with its directive. It then went ahead to announce that it had raised the LDR target upwards to 65 per cent and directed lenders to comply by December 31, 2019 or be charged an additional CRR equal to 50 per cent of the lending shortfall of the target LDR. In addition, to ensure that DMBs complied with the LDR policy, the CBN, last October, barred individuals and local firms from investing in both its primary and secondary Open Market Operations (OMO) auctions. This meant that only banks and foreign investors are allowed to participate at such auctions. The need for the banks to increase MSMEs lending cannot be overemphasized considering the role they play in driving the economy. MSMEs As The Engine Room Of The Economy Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) have been generally acknowledged as the backbone to the success of developed nations, gaining popularity through the success rates in such developed economies that invested in the sector. From unemployment reduction to its contribution to government revenue, the benefits of a well-developed MSME sector can never be over emphasized. Given their contributions, the federal government has continued to set out plans to develop the MSMEs sector to achieve economic growth. In high-income countries, MSMEs contribute well over 65 per cent of employment and about 48 per cent to the GDP, while in low-income countries; they contribute to about 30 per cent of employment and about 15 per cent of GDP. In Nigeria, despite the fact MSMEs has been identified as a tool for economic development and provision of employment, variety of challenges seems to have a negative impact that constraint MSMEs from playing the vital role of stimulating economic development. The challenges ranging from; lack of financial capabilities, management issues, inadequate infrastructure, sociocultural issues, government policy and unstable political system. The Impact Of LDR On MSMEs The CBN recently said that  “All DMBs are required to attain a minimum LDR of 65 percent by December 31, 2019, and this ratio shall be subject to quarterly review to encourage SMEs, retail, mortgage and consumer lending, these sectors shall be assigned a weight of 150 percent computing the LDR for this purpose.” In 2019, the central bank has retained the LDR at 65 percent after the expiration of the second deadline last month, saying it has noticed a remarkable increase in the size of gross credit by deposit money banks (DMBs) to customers. “Accordingly, the CBN has decided to retain the minimum 65 percent LDR in the interim. All DMBs are required to maintain this level and are further advised that average daily figures are to be applied to assess compliance going forward,” the apex bank said. However, it stressed that “DMBs are further encouraged to maintain strong risk management practices regarding their lending operations.” Governor of CBN, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, said the credit conditions in the banking system had since improved due to the policy. According to him, banks are now able to recover delinquent loans from customers’ accounts in other banks. Emefiele said the measures had placed Nigerian banks in a much better position towards supporting a stronger economic recovery. Banks Efforts The Banks have been making a lot of efforts in these regard to increase leading to the real sector going in line with the CBN policy. Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN) recently announced that of securing $200 million in funding via a partnership with sub-Saharan Africa financial services group, Atlas Mara Limited, in agreement with Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the U.S. government’s development finance institution. The agreement is consistent with Union Bank’s long-standing commitment to enabling enterprise and empowering women-owned businesses. Earlier this year, Union Bank launched Alpher, a dynamic proposition aimed at uplifting women across all segments of the Nigerian society through capacity building opportunities, networking platforms, scholarships and tailored financial services for women. Also, during the week, Guaranty Trust Bank announced a reduction in the interest rate for a set of credit facility it offers. The lender, in a notice to its customers, said it has reduced the interest rate for the loan obtained under its QuickCredit package to 1.33 percent monthly from the previous 1.75 percent. According to the financial institution reputed to support retail businesses, especially those in the Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector, the new interest rate was derived from 16 percent per annum. Stakeholders View The new lending policy for deposit money banks, the organized private sector (OPS) has said it was a move in the right direction. According to them, the focus of the policy on SMEs, Retail, Mortgage and consumer lending under the proposed lending regime is laudable and results are beginning to be seen and also, the policy has significantly moderated interest rates, which is good for the economy. Speaking the director-general of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf said that the Nigerian private sector has over the years grappled with issues of credit access, cost of credit and tenure of funds, saying that these challenges are more severe for MSMEs in the economy with huge financing gaps. “The economy has been characterized by profound crowding effect of the private sector in the financial markets owing to more attractive returns from credit to government through the instrumentalities of treasury bills and federal government bonds.  These developments created considerable distortions in the financial markets and considerably impeded domestic investment.  It created major financial intermediation issues as the banking system became largely disconnected from the investing public.  The real sector investors and the SMEs were the foremost victims of this distortion,” Yusuf said. According to him, the high and attractive returns on government debt instruments was a major worry because they have zero risk and the earnings are tax exempt.  Naturally, there was a gravitation of capital towards these investment windows, depriving the investment community of funds, posing major constraints to job creation and the advancement of the economy. He however said that “The LCCI sees this new lending policy as a timely policy intervention to normalize the credit markets, spur economic growth and broaden the interface between entrepreneurs and the banking system.  The banks are now obligated to be more tolerant of the entrepreneurs, improve their risk tolerance threshold and be more innovative in the creation of financial assets.” He noted that the new lending policy has impacted the economy in the following ways; the quality of financial intermediation has improved and this would impact the economy better as funding gaps in many sectors are addressed; reduction of the crowding out of the private sector in the credit market; improvement of economic inclusion as more SMEs and broader range of sectors have better access to credit; deepening of the money market; improvement in purchasing power as consumer credit increases. This would also impact positively on the economy because of the stimulating effect increased aggregate demand; moderation of interest rates as supply of credit increases; improvement in lending creativity and innovation by the banks and broader and more diversified sectoral coverage of lending. Also, the director-general of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Mr. Ayoola Olukanni, said the policy has seen more aggressive marketing of loan products by commercial banks. Olukanni said, “Feedback from our members who are manufacturers reflected the fact that funds are currently easier to access to fund their business.” Olukanni stated that NACCIMA has consistently advocated for access to single-digit-interest finance for the real sector since President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration assumed office, saying that this was a crucial factor to improving capacity utilisation in the industrial sector. “We see this as a deliberate policy to ensure that there is greater access to finance. It is our position that at the very first instance of the implementation of this policy, industrial sectors that are able to guarantee sufficient returns to justify the high cost of funds will start to expand,” Olukanni said. Addressing Possible Downside Risks In Loan Assets Of Bank The DG of LCCI said that “In order to address some of the possible downside risks in respect of loans asset quality arising from the new lending policy, we implore the CBN and the fiscal authorities to undertake the following, strengthening the Collateral Registry to enhance the profiling of borrowers in the banking system.  The character of the borrower has been identified as a major risk factor in the lending in the Nigerian economy.  Effective credit registry would be improve the quality of customer profiling and credit risk management.” He also noted that there should be development of SME rating agencies to support credit assessment an evaluation in the SME space; need to scale up corporate governance practices in the banking system to prevent insider abuse and compromise of credit assessment processes; strengthen credit guarantee framework to give comfort to the banks and promotion of the use of credit insurance; fiscal authorities should address enabling business environment issues, particularly infrastructure deficit and quality, in order to improve productivity and reduce credit risk; need to ensure better regulatory environment to reduce regulatory risk and uncertainty; ensure alignment of the new policy with extant monetary policy actions especially with regards to Cash Reserve Ratio and the Liquidity Ratio which are currently at 22.5 per cent and 30 per cent respectively. He added that “We contend that the combination of all of these would reduce the risk of Asset quality deterioration in the banking system.” In conclusion, The intention behind the LDR policy is laudable and justifiable given where we are as a nation. Industry stakeholders implored the CBN to work with the stakeholders in the economy to ensure impactful outcomes. 