***Vows To Protect Democracy In Nigeria. The People’s Democratic Party PDP Taraba state chapter Sunday rejected the recent supreme court ruling that sacked its candidate Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as the governor of Imo state and replaced him with Hope Uzodima as the governor of the state. In a press briefing at the state secretariat of the party in Jalingo Taraba state capital, the state chairman of the party Hon. Victor Bala Kona said the party having witnessed the destruction of democratic values, ethos and principles, consistent break of the 1999 constitutions could not hold her peace anymore but to rise for protection of the nation and the constitution. He said the Taraba state chapter of PDP have join her counterpart in the 36 states of the federation including the federal capital territory Abuja to reject the court ruling following the decision of the party during the 87th National Executive Committee (NEC) held on Friday January 17th 2020. “Today been the 19, 2020, we join our counterpart in the 36 states of the federation including the federal capital territory Abuja to reject the destruction of our democratic institutions and values especially in the Independence of the legislature, the politicization of the judiciary and the compromising of our electoral institutions. “We the PDP Taraba state chapter from the ward to local government to the state level, we hereby lend our unflinching support in condemning the utter desecration of judiciary tenets and values, culminating to courts manufacturing of votes and donating to APC gubernatorial candidate in Imo state as against the people’s mandate freely given to the winner of the 2019 election Hon. Emeka Ihedioha as their governor. Kona said the PDP in Taraba observed that the calculated injustice by the supreme court justice of Nigeria is no longer the last hope of a common man but rather the lost hope of the common man in Nigeria. “In spite of these calamities, the PDP will not be deterred but will remain focus with the generality of Nigerians in our irrevocable determination to take all steps necessary to prevent the reoccurrence of Imo injustics in Sokoto, Kano and Plateau states. “The PDP is more than ever ready to stop APC on its trail to use the supreme court to takeover states lawfully won by PDP. “Gentle men of the press, the supreme court decision on the removal of a duly elected governor of Imo state if left unchallenged, it will be the end of our hard earn strugle for democracy including our founding members most of whom are today not alive. “Before I conclude this protest speech, let me remind you that the issue at stake is not about Emeka Ihedioha, it is not about Imo state, it is about the future of of our dear nation and democracy, it is also about our future elections. “before I conclude this briefing, I humbly request you to do analysis from the Imo state governorship election as at March 11, 2019 when the result was declared.