Leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), has called for three-day fasting and prayers over the brutal murder of Adamawa state chairman of the association, Rev Lawan Andimi.
CAN in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja, signed by the director, Legal and Public Affairs, CAN, Evangelist Kwamkur Vondip, said the president of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, the entire CAN leadership, and the Nigerian Church are deeply saddened with the news of the death of Rev. Andimi who is also the District Church Council Secretary of the Ecclesiya Yan’uwa a Nigeia (EYN) Church in Michika, Adamawa State. CAN expressed sadness, noting that that Late Rev. Andimi while in captivity made a passionate appeal to the leadership of his church and the federal government to come to his rescue.
The statement said the church did everything within its reach to secure the safe release of this pastor gentleman but it was not possible because they didn’t have the military power to do so.
It also recalled that just last Sunday, a clergyman, Rev Denis Bagauri was murdered by unknown gunmen in his residence at Mayo Belwa of Adamawa State. The statement said the church views the unabated kidnappings, extortions and killings of Christians and innocent Nigerians as shameful to the government that each time boasts that it has conquered insurgency.
The association also called on Christians to be calm, and challenge the federal government led by President Buhari to be more proactive about efforts to get rid of the continuous siege on Nigeria and end the wanton killings and destructions of lives and property of Nigerians if the government is to be taken seriously. The statement reads in part: “Maintenance of security is the least responsibility of any government that knows its worth. We are once again calling on the President Buhari to purge himself of the allegations of nepotism and religious favouritism by reconstituting the leadership of security outfits. ‘’CAN deeply sympathises with the immediate family of Late Rev. Andimi, President and members of EYN Church, the government of Adamawa State and the entire Nigeria church. ‘’We urge the federal government to ensure the release of the prisoner of faith, Leah Sharibu and hundreds of victims who are in the Boko Haram and ISWAP captivity before it is too late.” It added that what is the essence of SIM card registration if the authorities cannot use it to track down these killers who rely on phones as a means of communication to do their criminalities.”