There is tension over the alleged unlawful sale of some government properties to friends and cronies of the principals of the two previous administrations in Kwara state between 2003 and 2019, ABDULLAHI OLESIN reports. There is mounting tension in Kwara State over the alleged sale of some housing units belonging to the state government by the  past administrations of former Governors Abubakar Bukoka Saraki and Abdulfatah Ahmed. The shocking revelation about the sales of government properties by previous administrations between 2003 and 2019 was made public by Senator Sulaiman Makanjuola’s committee on the state’s assets and properties. The committee in its report had alleged that no fewer than 197 housing units out of the 410 owned by the state were allegedly sold to politicians unlawfully by the previous governments. One of the major decisions of Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq upon assumption of office in May 29, 2019 was the setting up of a committee to probe the handling of public assets in the state since 1999. But, Governor AbdulRazaq raised the bar last Monday during a visit to President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa in Abuja. AbdulRazaq told the inquisitive state house correspondents how his predecessor, Alh Abdulfatah Ahmed allegedly sold off about 110 properties, including the deputy governor’s house to friends and cronies. However, there seems to be contradiction in the figures quoted by the governor and Senator Ajadi’s committee. While the committee put the total number of the state properties sold off at 197, the governor put his at 110. “On the house, what we met was that they have sold virtually about 110 government properties including the deputy governor’s residence, our deputy governor is staying in a rented accommodation, they just shared everything,” AbdulRazaq told state house correspondents. Though, the Senator Ajadi’s committee has not released the details about the properties in question, it’s assumed that the land on which demolished Ile Arugbo was built is part of them. Since the Ile Arugbo, the late Dr Abubakar Olusola Saraki’s charity home was demolished by agents of the state government on  January 2, 2019, the talks about the illegal acquisitions of some government’s properties have surfaced. In its report, the Senator Ajadi led committe noted that over 90 properties built with public funds were unlawfully appropriated by some officials of the past administrations. A copy of report submitted by the Ajadi-led committee obtained by LEADERSHIP showed how  168 government quarters, made up of three-bedroomed flats with boys’ quarters in the Government Reserved Area were sold to politicians at a rock-bottom price of N5m each while those without boys’ quarters were sold for N4m each. It was learnt that the 29 units of three-bedroom detached bungalow at the Kwara State Parliamentary Village, meant to house the members of the state House of Assembly, were sold at N2,303,540 each. The sum was said to be 50 per cent of the market value of the property while the Speaker’s lodge was given out at N4.206m representing 50 per cent of the market value. Another property was a five-bedroom bungalow at Catchment Road, GRA, Ilorin which served as the official residence of a director of Harmony Properties, a state-owned commercial venture. The property, which was valued at N33m, was sold to a director at N15m, less than 50 per cent of the market value of the property. The sale was said to have been without the approval of the board of the company. It was however gathered that although all the properties were sold at very cheap prices, the buyers did not pay for them. The report  read in part, “Though the property at Catchment Road in GRA was sold to a director of Harmony Properties Limited at N15m, the buyer only paid N1.5m and started demolishing the building. Since then, nothing else was paid.” On the quarters at the Parliamentary Village sold to members of the 7th state Assembly, the source noted that even though the approved sales value was ridiculous, the beneficiaries did not pay for the quarters. The report stated, “The sale was not transparent and it was counter-productive, therefore, government should adopt the recommendation in the first valuation report, which indicated the open market value. The beneficiaries should be given six months to pay the outstanding balance including the difference recommended. “And if the beneficiaries default after the six months, the sale of the property should be revoked and offered to interested buyers.” The source noted the report also recommended that the five-bedroom bungalow at Catchment Road, GRA, which was sold to a director at N15m, should be retrieved immediately from the director that bought it. The report said, “that all members of the board that approved the sale in contravention of section 282(2) of Company and Allied Matters Act be prosecuted for negligence.” According to the report, another property that irked the governor was the Amusement Park, a government recreation centre in Ilorin, the state capital, which was sold to a company for N100m. The committee recommended that the government should refund the money to the buyer and remodel it for its primary purpose “as it remains the only all encompassing recreation centre that the state can boast of.” The report also cited the Shonga Farm Holdings, which was initiated in 2004 by the administration of Dr Bukola Saraki as the governor of the state. The state was said to have brought in 13 Zimbabwean farmers, acquired 17,000 hectares of land compulsorily from 33 villages and spent “a lot of money on the farmers”, including provision of houses and take-off grants in foreign currency for them, among other welfare packages. The state was also said to have guaranteed loan of N650m for them with the Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative and Rural Development Bank. However, when the farm could not repay the loan, the sum of N1,184,369,818.48 was said to have been deducted from the state’s allocation to repay the loan. The report also cited Oke Oyi Poultry Farm, established by the state Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, but was mismanaged, leased and sold to a private establishment at a give-away price. The report noted further that the state’s landed property in choice areas of Lagos, Abuja, Kaduna and Ilorin had allegedly been shared by politicians and public office holders who served the state in the last two administrations. Also at a news conference he addressed last week in the wake of the demolition of Ile Arugbo, the chairman of the Committee on the Review of the Kwara state Government Properties from 1999 to 2019, Senator Ajadi said more properties and houses will soon be revoked and others demolished based on the committee’s  recommendations to the state government. He added that the late Dr Olusola Saraki’s house is one of those properties (Ile Arugbo) illegally acquired and recommended to the state government for acquisition. The chairman said that his committee submitted its report in July last year. Ajadi said his committee also recommended to government to acquire some properties and pay compensation to their owners where required. He described as false the claims that the government demolished a building belonging to the late politician Senator Olusola Saraki. He wondered how a place bordering a hospital could be used for political meetings where noise and commotion were rife. He added that the furore over the reclamation of the land was needless because the state government has only recovered a property that originally belonged to it but was unlawfully diverted for private use. Flanked by some members of the committee, Ajadi told newsmen in Ilorin, the state capital that many of the publications on the land were either erroneous or mischievous as there are no proofs anywhere that the land ever belonged to Asa Investment Limited. He added : “The issue of the land in question came under the terms of reference of this committee which considered several other properties of government and submitted its recommendations in July 2019. “As was the case with all the properties looked into by the committee, the committee’s recommendations were based on strictly available records from the archives of government. And based on the available records, the Committee did not see proof of any payments nor an approved Right of Occupancy even though there was a letter of allocation in principle. “In reaching its conclusions, the Committee noted foundation work with erected columns at varying areas of the larger segment of the land. The committee also noted that the land in question was also a part of a larger parcel of land, part of which had been developed into the Civil Service Clinic and Secretariat complex now housing the State Ministry of Finance, among others. “Finally, based on the existing convention that land acquired by Government in overriding public interest cannot be converted to private use, unless under extraneous circumstances which requires the express approval of the Governor of the State, the Committee did not see a case made for this land and neither was there any approval from the Governor of the state to convert it to private use. In view of the above reasons, therefore, the committee was compelled to recommend that the land be repossessed and put to the original use it was meant for. “Let me draw the attention of Nigerians to the use of “Ile Arugbo” to describe the land in question. Usage of that phrase leads to many people erroneously thinking of a structured building where old people were catered for. This is not so. What was on the ground up until the physical reclamation by the government was a garage-like structure (a shed) used by the older Saraki to keep people waiting to see him or to hold political meetings. “In addition, it is important to discuss the issue of ownership which should be central to the whole debate.  With emphasis, from all records available, there is no “Right of Occupancy” or “Certificate of Occupancy” available to the private firm to which the land was allocated in principle. There is  also no receipt of payments for the land. Where, therefore, is the right to a claim to this land? “Another issue of note is the absurdity of putting a political gathering place beside a (medical) clinic. A hospital is supposed to be a serene environment for medical welfare of patients; it is definitely not a political war centre where people make the loudest noise, fight, or find themselves enmeshed in commotion and fatal stampede etc which was the lot of that place. “I, therefore, on behalf of all of my committee members, some of whom are present here today, believe it was necessary and prudent to make this public clarification on an issue that has generated needless controversy.” But, in a swift response,former Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed refuted claims that his administration sold 110 government properties to friends and cronies. In a statement issued by his media aide, Dr Muyideen Akorede, in response to Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq’s reported claim that his predecessor sold 110 government properties to associates, Ahmed disputed the conflicting figures cited by the Governor and absolved his administration of any wrongdoing regarding the sale of government properties. Ahmed said his administration followed due process in selling some government quarters to civil servants, and members of the 7th Kwara State House of Assembly on owner-occupier basis following state Executive Council approval. The said approval, he said, also covered other properties disposed of by his administration with the proceeds paid into government coffers. The federal government’s monetisation policy, he further clarified,  which sought to shed the financial burden of maintaining government-owned properties, motivated his administration’s disposal of the affected assets. Ahmed also reiterated his position that contrary to Governor AbdulRazaq’s claim of misappropriation, the former administration cancelled a bank loan obtained to counterpart fund Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) 2013 grant when the repayment pressured dwindling federal allocation and therefore threatened pressing government obligations. Regarding salary payment, Ahmed maintained that his administration was up to date in the payment of state civil servants including senior secondary teachers under its remit before it left office. Unfortunately, he said, local government councils owed their workers and primary school teachers subsisting salary arrears on account of unstable federal allocation to that tier of government. The former governor pointed out that the AbdulRazaq administration’s adoption of the previous administration’s position that salaries and pensions gulped the bulk of Federal allocation to the state and local government councils had vindicated the former administration. Ahmed expressed relief that despite the vicious blackmail his administration was subjected to on account of the said arrears, the current government’s position had exonerated this. Also, some concerned youths have condemned what they described as an alleged plan by a certain interest group to sponsor a state-wide protest against the immediate past Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki and former Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed over alleged unlawful sale of government properties. The youths in a statement that has gone viral on the social media said: “We learnt that the state-wide protest, which is to be staged in few days time is targeted at inciting the public against the duo of Saraki and Ahmed and also to  tarnish their image. “The protest, we also learnt is to divert attention from the Ile Arugbo demolition saga that has become a national issue of sort and has caused unending backlash and bad publicity for the present government. “Our fear and concern is that this arrangee protest can cause public disturbance, crisis and large-scale violence within the state, as supporters of the State Government and that of Dr Bukola Saraki and former Governor Ahmed could clash during such protest. This is detrimental to the peace and harmony Kwara is reputed for. “If an individual is accused of selling government properties illegally, the reasonable and lawful thing to do, is to carry out investigation and charge the person to court for prosecution, and not organising any arrangee protest or subjecting that person to media trial. Two wrongs do not make a right. “ Meanwhile, a public affairs commentator, Prince Tunji Moronfoye has challenged the Senator Ajadi’s committee to make public names of those that acquired government’s properties illegally, instead of making veiled statements on the issue. He reasoned that the unveiling of the identities of the alleged buyers of the government properties will go a long way in reducing the tension that the issue had created