An indigenous oil firm, Belemaoil Producing Limited and its Joint Venture partners, have built and donated a five-bedroom duplex to an aged musician, Tamunoemi Gold in Rivers State. Gold is a surviving member of the legendary Jim Rex Lawson Music Band. The building located in Buguma City in Asari-Toru local government area of Rivers State, was constructed in collaboration with the Jack-Rich Tein Aid Foundation and the Belema Aid Foundation. Equipped with state-of-the-art modem musical instruments, the building would serve as Gold’s residence and a foundation for the training of young musicians in Kalabari Kingdom. The building was commissioned by the Amanyanabo of Kalabari Kingdom, King Theophilus Princewill, who was represented by his secretary, Alabo Prince Dateme. Speaking at the commissioning of the building yesterday in Buguma, president/founder of Belemaoil Producing Limited, Engr. Jack-Rich Tein, said that he is committed to the development of rural communities in the Niger Delta region. Tein, who was represented by the general manager, Geosolutions, Belemaoil, Mr. Sunday Akpaduado, wondered why communities in the Niger Delta are still living in squalor despite huge revenue that accrues from the region. He said: “Today is a very important day to all of us in Belemaoil. When I look at history, I believe that today is a very important day. You have been told about the history of this building. We are here to celebrate Kalabari culture; we are here to celebrate Kalabari Kingdom. “You will see more projects like this in our rural communities. We will be celebrating ourselves from community to community. We want to see projects in our communities where we make our money.” In his welcome address, managing director, Belemaoil Producing Limited, Mr. Pedro Diaz, said the project was conceived by Tein because of what he saw in Gold’s music. Diaz, who was represented by the manager, External Relations, Samuel Abel-Jumbo, said the building was aimed at giving a new lease of life to the aged musician as well as to create an avenue for the training of young Kalabari youths in music. He said: “We are here to commission a project that was started one year ago. The project was conceived by Engr. Jack-Rich Tein based on what he saw. He  saw Tamunoemi Gold perform on social media in honour of Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike. “The performance of Tamunoemi Gold touched him and he decided to do everything possible to give him a new lease of live. He also decided to set up a foundation for Gold to train young Kalabari youths in music. “Today, we are celebrating industry, today, we are celebrating artistry. We are celebrating our own. When Tamunoemi Gold leaves the stage tomorrow, our traditional music will not die.” Responding, the aged musician, Elder Tamunoemi Gold, said with the building and musical instruments, his life has been prolonged. Gold said: “God proved his mystery in my life by connecting me to you through the Internet, Facebook. With this, my life is prolonged and fruitful.”