A leading Turkish firm, Bosphorus Expo is partnering with the International Housing Show Abuja (IHSA) for a successful hosting of the 2020 World Industry Construction Forum. In a chat with LEADERSHIP, the organiser of IHSA, Barr Festus Adebayo said that over the years, that the World Industry construction forum has attracted participants from the USA, UK, France, Italy, Turkey, China, Nigeria, South Africa, Brazil and several other countries around the world. IHSA is the largest housing and construction expo in Africa. It’s a forum that brings together all real estate, mortgage, home interior, affordable housing, and construction stakeholders from public and private sector to discuss and display sector trends. He stated that the registration fee for each participant which is $350, will cover three nights in a 4-Star hotel inclusive of breakfast, shuttle from Ankara airport to hotel and forum area, participation fee, two days B2B meetings forum, inclusive of dinner and coffee break as well as industry zone tour and association meetings. The coming together of the two brands is to deliver a world class construction expo, expected to hold between 15th- 16th April, 2020 at the Hilton Garden Inn, Ankara, Turkey. Adebayo enjoined interested construction and real estate firms willing to exhibit their products and services should reach out to him for conducive arrangement. He assured that this year’s forum would provide a wider platform for construction industry players to network, strategise and share ideas on the latest technologies and ideas in the sector. To this end, he disclosed that the Turkish Embassy in Abuja is planning a business forum in Abuja this month, where they would meet many Nigerians that would be interested in the event. Bosphorus Expo is an International building construction event organiser on Africa, Middle East and Caucasus Zone. The 7-year old firm has organised 43 fairs, 14 purchasing committees, 19 commercial delegation programmes, over 100 private foreign delegations and over 10,000 bilateral business meetings.