Over 300 street kids (underage who roam the streets) on Sunday benefited from the children’ feeding programme organized by a women group operating in Nigeria under the aegis of Women on a Mission International (WOAM). Addressing the kids at the Zoe garden Marry Slessor Avenue, Calabar, shortly before commencing the sharing of food and other gift items worth million of naira to the kids, Chief Executive Officer CEO/ Chairperson of the interdenominational Group Mrs. Amaka Akinsola urged the kids not to see themselves as failure as hope was not yet lost. Akinsola advised them to be God fearing, steer cleer from violent act that was inimical to the development and advancement of the society. “I know some of you would think that life has come to an end just because you find you self in this condition. No, its not so, in life, anything can always happened. “God can decide to changed your circumstance especially if you keep your head level.
” I was read a story about a homeless man in the a certain country who latter became so wealthy in life. Don’t ever think that your own is finished.
“In life when you think that yours has come to an end, that’s when God begins his work in your life.
“You never can tell God may decide to use someone who is better than I am to change your circumstance, so long as you don’t constitute a threat to the society. She said that the initiative was born from the fact that the kids also needed that parental love especially during the Yuletide period where kids who have parents enjoyed so much celebration with their loved ones stressing that the kids in the street had no one to look up to. The CEO enumerated other areas that the interdenominational group had met the need of the less privileged to include, payment of school fees to a number of indigent pupils and students of Ediba secondary school, upsetting of hospital bills for many who were unable to meet up with medical bills at the university of Calabar Teaching Hospital UCTH and provision of succor to Uwanse orphan and aged home in Target street, Calabar. Earlier in her remarks at the dumb site, Lemma Junction Calabar where over 200 kids were spotted scavenging from the dumb site with a strong warning to our correspondent not to take any snap shot or risk his camera, the spokesperson for the women group (drawn from different religious faith) Mrs. Agnes Okom advocates for partnership with government at all levels including other public spirited individuals in the task ahead.
In his remarks, a 12 years old Master Ubong Ekpeyong who claimed to be an indigene of Akapabuyo LGA of the state thanked the group for extending a hand of fellowship to them stressing that he lost his mother four years ago adding that he left home to join his friend due to hostility to him by his father’s new wife. “I wish all days were like this, it is long I had this kind of meal. Aunty I want selpass, and paracetamol for headache” Ubong maintained.