The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has shown some level of seriousness in its effort to diversify the Nigerian economy through the development of the agricultural sector, unfortunately the sector is still held down by the same old problems. JOSEPH CHIBUEZE reports Stakeholders in the agricultural sector have been speaking on their expectations for the agricultural sector in Nigeria in 2020, especially against the background of the events of last year. They recall that the year brought about so many issues including policy thrusts that go to support the national aspiration of ensuring food sufficiency for the nation, as well as some that were controversial leading to national tragedies. These include the crop farmers and herders clashes and the proposed RUGA programme which was later suspended. While they are optimistic that some of the initiatives of the government that helped the sector to make some appreciable progress in 2019 such as the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), ban on the importation of some agro commodities and the shutting down of some of the nation’s land borders would be sustained and possibly improved upon, they also observed that if the nation fails to address fundamental issues of mechanisation, irrigation, seeds, extension service, insurance, research and development, access to funds among others, the nation may just not make any progress. Last year, Data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) shows that the sector grew by 3.17 percent, in the first quarter of the year, it also grew at a slower rate of 1.79 percent in second quarter and picked up marginally to 2.28 percent in the third quarter of 2019. Similarly, during the year, agricultural export for the period experienced strong growth from January to September 2019 but this was fast eroded as the agricultural imports for the period far outweigh exports. According to NBS, Nigeria imported N949.8 billion worth of agricultural goods in the period as against N180.7 billion of exports for the same period despite the ban placed on the importation of several agro commodities. So far, the government appears to be relenting on its focus on agriculture viewed from the point of budgetary allocation. For instance the budgetary allocation for the agriculture sector over the last few years shows that the allocation to agriculture, as a percentage of the overall annual budget to all sectors increased from 1.25 percent in 2016 to 1.82 percent in 2017 and 2.23 percent in 2018. However, the allocation to the sector as a percentage of the overall budget declined in 2019 by 1.56 percent and a further decline to 1.3 percent in the 2020 budget. But 2020 is no doubt going to be a year of radical changes in the nation’s agric sector, if the words of the minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mohammed Sabo Nanono is anything to go by. The minister while receiving members of the Agriculture Development Partners Working Group (ADPWG) in his office recently, said the ministry was going to effect some changes in the way it goes about its business if it hopes to achieve its target of making agriculture a business. The minister said there is going to be major changes in the way the ministry operates to take the opportunities that are coming up in the sector. According to him, “At the ministry level, we have to change our tactics. It is no more going to be business as usual. We have to be proactive and we have to remove ourselves from the normal civil service process of approved, not approved, move from one desk to the next. No, we have to be more business-like. “We are repositioning ourselves in that direction. There is going to be major changes in order for us to achieve our target. Without the changes, if we say we are going to follow the normal civil service bureaucracy that we are used to, we are not going to achieve anything.” While lamenting that Nigeria lacks organisation and focus in the agricultural sector, the minister however said that the present administration is trying to correct that and look at agriculture as a wholesome gain. “The problem with this country is not lack of resources,” he said. “I don’t think there is any country as blessed as we are, but where we have problem is that we are just not organised and focused. Whether we like it or not if we want to move forward, we have to reduce urban politics in our agricultural businesses.” That was the minister giving a hint to what Nigerians should expect going forward. Dr Hakeem Ajeigbe, Country Representative, International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), said 2020 is going to be bright for the agriculture sector in Nigeria. He however puts a caveat: that the nation must consolidate on some aspects of agriculture that will make her competitive. In his words, “Our challenge has always been that our agric sector is not as competitive as it should be compared to other countries.” He said one of the areas the nation needs to focus on is processing. According to him, “Processing is key because it increases productivity and creates market.” For him, this will give farmers the incentive to produce more. “If the farmers know there is market, they will invest more,” Dr Ajeigbe said. “So we need to encourage processing. Rice is doing well now because there is processing, but the infrastructural development for processing is weak. To address that, government needs to take a critical look at that. We need to look at the supporting infrastructures that will help agric to grow. “We are still importing all our machinery and equipment, thus while import of rice has dropped, that of machinery, equipment and agrochemicals has correspondingly gone up. It is even more worrisome that some of the chemicals we import are fake. Importation of agro-machinery and chemicals is on the rise, making the country to lose what it gains through the closure of borders.” He suggested that the “Government will do well to create incentives for local assembly plants for machinery and production plants for agrochemicals to reduce their prices and create more jobs. Another area I want the government to focus on is input subsidy that would make inputs get directly to farmers. We are not talking about subsidy for the sake of it, but to subsidise the process of making sure that it gets directly to the real farmers.” For Alhaji Kabir Ibrahim, president All Farmers Association of Nigeria, (AFAN), farmers need to see agriculture as a business and invest in areas where they have competencies. While government should put more efforts to ensure the security situation improves in the core north and also provide more infrastructure to help farmers especially in the area of processing. He said government should also understand that rice is not the only staple food in Nigeria. According to him, “There are other staple foods in different states, if you go to south east for instance, they should pay more attention to cassava, yam, sorghum and maize. In the south west they should also focus on cassava and yam. We don’t have to put all our attention on one crop while neglecting others. We should focus on crops where we have competitive advantage instead of pushing everybody to rice as though rice is the only thing we have in Nigeria.” Ibrahim also challenged the government to ensure farmers have more access to funding to help them acquire improved seeds and the equipment they need for farming. One of the major challenges facing the agric sector in Nigeria is the dearth of agric extension service agents. The minister of Agriculture, Sabo Nanono recently made a passionate appeal to development partners and even the private sector for support in the area of recruitment and training of more extension service agents for the country. According to the minister, “We have dire need of extension agents. The last time I checked, the number of extension agents we have in this country was just about 15,000 against a farming population of over 70 million. Just work out the ratio and you will see that it is extremely negligible. “What I realised is that beyond the effort that government is making, that area is not properly looked into. Some of the donor agencies are helping but the intensity of the intervention required in that sector is still lacking.” He said that some of the country’s export commodities are rejected not on the account of adulteration but for misapplication of fertiliser and other related chemicals. Dr Ajeigbe said “You cannot be talking of introduction of modern agronomic practices without an effective extension service programme. The extension agents are the ones to go into the rural areas to teach the farmers these new practices. Government really need to invest in that area.” Mr Peter Dama, president Rice Millers Association of Nigeria (RIMAN), said investment in infrastructure is the way to go. According to him, “Government must provide the needed infrastructures such as power and motorable roads to drive down production cost, effective and efficient rail transportation linking where the food are produced in the north and markets in the south as well as irrigation facilities to aid all-year farming.” Mr Dama, who owns Swomen Dama Rice Limited, a rice processing firm in Plateau State, says as one who wears the shoe, he knows where it pinches most. According to him, “We complain of the high cost of locally produced food items, but we never bothered to ask under what condition are these farmers and processors working? “As a rice miller, I provide my own power running generators, burning diesel. That is a huge cost on me. It is the same thing with others. We have not talked about bad roads, we have not talked about lack of adequate storage facilities which is a huge contributor to the huge post-harvest losses farmers incur every year. “In many areas we cannot do dry season farming because there is no irrigation facilities. I believe the government means well, of course they have done well in the area of Ease of Doing Business and policy formulation and encouraging people to go into agriculture, yes, but what about the infrastructure that will help them to reap the benefits of farming or even make it easy for them? This is the area I want government to focus in 2020.” Other contributors insist that the country must increase its mechanisation scale to meet the ever-increasing demand for food before the country can talk about earning foreign exchange through the sector. With all this in place, they stated that the country’s agricultural products will be competitive as a result, importation will be discouraged.