Mrs Oluremi Oyeyemi Adeojo nee Oyawa, is a UK-based Nigerian mental health nurse who has passion for philanthropy. She is the founder of Soworkiq Charity Foundation Early childhood I was born in Abeokuta. My parents are from Ekiti. My mother was a nurse. I had my primary school education at St. John’s Primary School in Ibadan and then moved to C.A.C Grammar School Efon- Alaaye for my secondary education. I attended Sight and Sound Institute where I did secretarial studies. In 1990 I travelled to the United Kingdom, I got married after which I attended Southbank College to do my A-levels then Southbank University where I studied diploma in mental health nursing before moving to East London University for my B.sc in Psychosocial studies. I’m a mother of three, two boys and a girl. I’m also grandmother.  Challenges It wasn’t easy but my way of overcoming challenges has always been to keep in mind that nothing is permanent, with the right frame of mind and my strong belief in God I have been able to overcome all those challenges. The bible says we should lay all before him. Giving my life to Christ made it very easy to overcome all my challenges. I always tell God to take total control of all the problems. He has been sustaining me up till this moment and it is written that many are the afflictions of the righteous but God delivers him from them all. That has been my case in all challenges.  Soworkiq Foundation Soworkiq Charity Foundation came into being in 2010. I travelled to Nigeria and during that time I was invited by a pastor to a mountain for a vigil. When I got there (Iyana Offa in Lagelu area), I saw a lot of very young children some as young as two/three years old. We all prayed throughout the night. In the morning these little children said they were going back to their village about five kilometers which was quite far. I asked whether their school was close by and I was told there was no school in that vicinity. This really moved me to make a decision. I asked if there was any land to buy so I could build a school and a church in the community, the pastor took me to the Baale who said there was an acre I could buy. When I returned to the UK I pawned all my gold brought all the money back to Nigeria and bought the land. Through that place I have been supporting the less privileged. So whenever I am in Nigeria I go there to evangelise. The people there have accepted me and I have been touching lives. Same thing here in London, there are a lot of children in gangs. Some of them get locked up, I try my best in counselling and praying for them and this is what brought about the prayer sessions for children that I run on Facebook, Tuesdays and Thursdays. Since I started these prayer sessions there has been a lot of testimonies. So under this foundation is the Charity fellowship where we provide online prayers 24/7 especially for our children. The Charity foundation is building a nursing home in Ibadan as well.  After completion this will go a long way in helping mentally challenged people, especially the elderly who have age related problems like dementia which a lot of people here believe to be madness. There are also those who are going through depression because of ignorance they are labelled mad or as possessed with witchcraft.   This foundation has also given some students scholarship. We also help the widows.  Philanthropy This is the desire I have to promote the welfare of others, especially by giving. I work as a nurse here in the UK and I will send the money to Nigeria to support others. Some, as scholarship, I have five children I’m supporting through school. There are also three others in a mental home that I am helping to sustain with monthly allowances. There are widows as well, all these people I support from my salary. Till date I haven’t gotten support from anyone except God and He has been proving himself as God. There is another property that I want to use for a nursing home where the elderly will be admitted. I also plan to build a rehabilitation Centre; all these things I just love doing. I took after my mum who is also a nurse, she was a matron before she retired. My love to help others is part of me and I will call it a gift from God. When people look at me and say you are just nice. I smile because I love helping others. I don’t like people suffering. Whatever I have I love to share. I also love donating to schools and churches.  Mentoring I have a lot of youths that I mentor, in fact they call me Iya ewe because I love the young ones. I go as far as visiting them, even those in incarceration to provide for as well as to counsel them. I don’t have any family member there but I still go to visit the prisons. I also have a club, Soworkiq Charity Football Team for the youths so that they can be involved in positive hobbies like football. I try to motivate and support them. As for my mentor she is Deaconess Elizabeth Oduntan. She has been my mentor from my university days, she is also a mental health nurse here in the U.K  Inspiration I am inspired to do good, to give people. The smiles and gratitude inspires me to do more.  Like today, on my way home I was accosted by a woman who told me she was hungry. I had just one pound in my purse and I decided to share it equally with her. A lot of people will say you weren’t in my budget when I was leaving my house but I can’t do that.  Legacy I want to be remembered as someone, who used all that God gave her to touch lives positively. Not only money oh but love, care and especially prayers.