Zamfara State governor, Muhammad Bello Matawalle, has said negotiation with bandits in the state started long before he assumed office. The governor gave the explanation against the backdrop of criticisms that trailed his decision to adopt the stick and carrot approach in dealing with bandits and other criminal elements in the state on assumption of office last year. Speaking exclusively with LEADERSHIP Sunday at the weekend, Matawalle said, while dialogue and negotiation with bandits preceded his administration, stating that his predecessor, former Governor Abdulaziz Yari, did not succeed because his administration was not sincere in dealing with the situation. He stated: “We started negotiating with them before I became the governor but they (immediate past administration) were not sincere then. Moreover, go and check the records in the United States and tell me one war that the US has won. They have to come back to the drawing table and sit down to find a solution, even as they negotiate with countries like Iraq, Libya and others. “You have to negotiate. They (the immediate past administration) too have tried it several times but because it was deceitful it did not work. It is just like you now, if you come to my house and say you want to see me and I give you time to come, you come and my security tells you that I am not around. The following day you meet me somewhere again and I ask you to come by 4pm; you come and still did not see me. Next time if I invite you, are you going to come? “You will think I am deceiving you. So, it is because they wish my government to fail and by God’s grace my government will not fail because we will not look at what they have done. We will not go into blame games but concentrate on the major issues that we have at hand. We are going to tackle the issue of insecurity in Zamfara head on”. Revealing further how he was able to contain insecurity in the state, the governor said, “We have to be sincere in dealing with this kind of people and as you see a Fulani man, he is very intelligent. If he talks to you and you give him wrong answers, and the next time you repeat the same thing, he will know that you are not serious and that you are deceiving him. So, you have to be sincere. “I’m open and sincere to them and whatever happens we tell them that their problem is our problem. So, what we are doing in Zamfara State is to give them all the listening ears anytime they want to get in touch with us”. Matawalle regretted that his predecesor left behind about N17billion VAT debt it did not remit to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), noting however that his administration was creating a lot of windows for support from external bodies, particularly foreign aids, to assist IDPs in Zamfara. “So, what do you expect me to do with a state that inherited a lot of these problems? I have to be running helter skelter to do something that can boost economy of the state because if I don’t do it, that is how I will end my tenure without achieving anything. So, I just closed my ears so that I cannot listen to what critics are saying. I have to move the state forward”, he stated. He added that with the kind of measures he has been able to put in place, including the establishment of RUGA settlements, there had been no issue of criminality in Zamfara in the past months. He continued: “We don’t have that type of insecurity situation in Zamfara State anymore. It is something that you need to bring everybody, show them their importance and bring them closer to you. This Fulanis we are talking about are human beings; they are entitled to all government activities because during electioneering they will go and give them voters cards to vote? Because we are in power, we just want to confine them in the bush.  “So, what we are doing now in order to get a permanent solution is to establish RUGA. This RUGA was there even during the colonial era. RUGA means rural grazing area; we had it. So, I established three RUGAs each in every senatorial district. The mission is simple; we want to bring all of them together, put some amenities in all the RUGAs like schools, grazing reserves, mini shops, mini stadiums, water networks, police station and their houses.  “I have just done that on my own in order to show them that we are serious about the dialogue and they have accepted that. Now we are almost at 80 percent completion in one of the senatorial zone. By the time we bring them together we have already cut them off from roaming about with their cows which will save a lot of land because by the time we have everything they don’t need to travel round the country and you can be able to contain the”.