Capital market operators are optimistic that the long awaited demutualisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), which is expected to buoy investors’ confidence and attract foreign investors, may become a reality in the year 2020, OLUSHOLA BELLO writes. The Nigerian capital market has continually remained a critical player in the nation’s economy. Analysts believe that for the market to be more investor-friendly, it has to be fully demultualised. Demutualisation is the process by which a customer-owned mutual organisation (mutual) or co-operative changes legal form to a joint stock company. It is sometimes called stocking or privatisation. With the process of demutualisation of the NSE approaching a climax and may become a reality in the year, market stakeholders are of the view that this is expected to bring the Nigerian capital market at par with other international jurisdictions, resulting in enhanced governance, transparency, and visibility while attracting strategic partners, investors and good quality issuers. According to them, demutualisation of the NSE is expected to buoy investor confidence and attract foreign investors, believing that a demutualised exchange is crucial towards boosting liquidity and growth of the economy. Stock exchange is an important institution of the economy. It plays dual role; on one hand it acts as a barometer of the economy and on the other hand it drives the economy, therefore efficiency of a stock exchange in broad term is the efficiency of the economy. Also, analysts said demutualisation is a process by which the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) will convert from a private organisation limited to a public limited liability company, which shares can be traded on an organised stock market.  Stock Market Embracing Demutualisation Some stock markets had demutualised, as well as build alliances or consolidate within and across borders, in order to enhance their attractiveness in the face of strong global competition. Until the early nineties, majority of the world’s stock exchanges were non-profit, member owned, mutual organisations with monopoly power. However, beginning in 1993 with the Stockholm Stock Exchange, leading stock exchanges including the Australian, London, NASDAQ and New York Stock Exchanges began to undergo demutualization. According to data from World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), the number of demutualized stock exchanges increased from 10 per cent in 1999 to 85 per cent in 2016. Of the 66 WFE members, less than 10 are currently mutual. However, there has been an uneven pace of exchange demutualisation observed between developed and emerging market jurisdictions. Within the first 10 years following the first demutualization in 1993, 21 exchanges in developed market jurisdictions successfully demutualized. In Africa specifically, out of the 27 exchanges who are members of ASEA, seven namely the Johannesburg, Nairobi, Mauritius, Seychelles, Rwandan, Casablanca stock exchanges and BRVM are demutualised with several others including the NSE in the process of demutualising or considering taking on this initiative.  NSE’ Demutualisation Process The NSE’s demutualisation process has been ongoing for some years now following its initiation by the NSE. In 2015, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued the Exposure Draft Rules on the demutualisation of exchanges in Nigeria. That same year, the NSE appointed financial advisers to advise it on a proposed demutualisation of the NSE. In 2018, Nigeria’s lower legislative house, the House of Representatives, passed a bill amending the laws establishing the NSE. This followed the signing of a similar bill by the Senate, all part of the processes leading to the demutualisation of the Nigerian bourse. Also, the Demutualisation Act, was signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. LEADERSHIP recalls that in January, 2019, the CEO of NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema gave an update on the process, saying that the bill had finally been signed into law by the President. Onyema noted that the exchange had made significant progress as regard its demutualisation, saying that “We have gone ahead, completed and submitted the documentation to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the no-objection. “When we get approval for the no-objection, we will have a meeting with members to get their final vote and when we get their final vote, we then resubmit a formal application to the SEC to complete the demutualisation process.” He however said that, “The approval of the demutualisation process will generate substantial motivation for the development of an agile Exchange, thereby consolidating its innovativeness and strengthening its leadership both at local and international levels while also adding value to its stakeholders. “As a demutualised entity that is profit-seeking, the NSE will be in a better stead to capitalise on new income opportunities, free from any limitations arising from conflicting member interests and existing laws and more importantly, be able to better support the economic growth of Nigeria.” SEC’s Effort As part of its efforts to transform the Nigerian capital market in accordance with global practice, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) said it is determined to demutualise the NSE. SEC said it is reviewing the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) demutualisation application. The acting director-general of SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk disclosed this at the third quarter post-Capital Market Committee (CMC) meeting news conference held in Lagos, recently. SEC explained that with demutualisation, the NSE should be exposed to robust corporate governance, enhanced efficiency and transparency associated with publicly quoted companies. “Demutualisation is important for market growth and development. It boots competitiveness, broadens investors’ access to the market, improves corporate governance and instills global best practice while promoting strategic partnership and alliances. These, in a nutshell, are the benefits of a demutualised securities exchange,” the Commission said. Stakeholders’ Views Speaking at the 10th annual general meeting (AGM)  of Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), recently, the chairman of the Association, Chief  Patrick Ezeagu stressed the need for  unity of purpose in pursuit of common professional goal as demutualisation and other emerging institutions in the capital market would provide more opportunities for securities dealers to earn multiple income. He said, “The process of demutualisation of the NSE is approaching a climax. We expect that we shall transform from being members to shareholders soon. It is important that we prepare ourselves for the change in status which comes with some responsibilities and new realities. “All our members representing us both at the Advisory Committee and the NSE Council have been working tirelessly to defend our collective interests in the demutualisation process.” The chief operating officer of Investdata Consulting Limited, Mr. Ambrose Omordion said that the NSE as a demutualised entity which is profit-oriented will be in a better position to capitalise on new income opportunities, free from any limitations arising from conflicting member interests, existing laws and more importantly, be able to better support the economic growth of Nigeria. Another shareholder activist, Adetokunbo Gbadebo, said the demutualisation of the Exchange will bring the Nigerian capital market at par with other international jurisdiction, resulting in enhanced governance, transparency and visibility while attracting strategic partners, investors and good quality issuers. A senior stockbroker with Calyxt Securities and Funds Limited, Mr. Tunde Oyediran stressed that the most important thing in the demutualisation process is that adequate preparation must be made to ensure that investors and, indeed, Nigerians benefit maximally from it. He said a deliberate effort should be made to fully restore investor confidence in the market, investors should be assured of transparency and the regulators’zero tolerance for exploiting insider knowledge and other forms of malfeasance. He added that for the idea of demutualisation to be successful, regulators must live up to their responsibility of putting in place checks and balances that could identify fraud before it happens. Market stakeholders however noted that demutualization appears to be the logical next step for African exchanges especially if they are to remain relevant in their role of powering Africa’s economic growth and development. In conclusion, NSE becoming a demutualised market will be in line with global best practice and ensure that the Nigerian market becomes more efficient and competitive as it will remove conflict of interest in decision making, which characterises mutual organisations.