The Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has pledged to re-invigorate and emplace the Nigeria Police legal section that ensures a pride of place for police lawyers. The IGP stated this at the conference of Nigeria police lawyers held at the force headquaters, Abuja. Addressing the gathering of lawyers in the force, numbering about 332, the IGP said “My idea is to have a Police force that embodies the values of fairness, justice and equity. This is informed by the reality that policing activities in a democratic society require accountability which is indeed demanded for by an increasingly enlightened and diverse citizenry. “In this regard, it remains the responsibility of police lawyers to guide investigators in the gathering, preservation and presentation of evidence as well as ensuring respect for the rights of persons who become the subject of police preventive and investigative procedures, be they suspects or witnesses of crime. “Much as actions have been taken to address the issues underlying civil actions and awards against the Police, there is the need to strengthen our Legal Department both in terms of structure, manpower and processes to position them in addressing this major challenge. “Given the institutional challenges the police as a key player in the criminal justice sector faces, reinvigorating the capacity of Police Lawyers by creating a unique platform where they can network and deepen their knowledge and skills has also become imperative, especially in the light of the passage of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act 2015. “In due appreciation of these realities, my plan is to re-invigorate and emplace a legal section that ensures a pride of place for Police lawyers, a Legal section that is the envy of every police lawyer, and a legal section where Police lawyers are eager and desirous to work. I therefore urge you to make the best of this opportunity by actively supporting us in attaining our plans and demonstrate the determination to act as change agents that will alter the professional fortune of the Nigeria Police Legal Section.” Speaking on the achievements of the police legal section, the IGP said “the Nigeria Police prides itself as one of the public institutions with the highest number of lawyers in the country. It is indeed, on record that some of these lawyers have successfully prosecuted landmark cases some of which have become references in legal practice in the country, while several others have deepened their knowledge of the law up to Doctorate level. Some of these bright legal assets of the Nigeria Police are here seated in our midst today.”