Hollandia Yoghurt, Nigeria’s leading drinking yoghurt beverage brand, has announced a partnership agreement with Miss Yemi Alade, a multiple award-winning artiste of international repute, as part of a new campaign to celebrate the brand’s 15 years of nourishing Nigerians and reinforcing its market leadership. The partnership aims to celebrate the values of consistency, hard work and talent which the brand and the artiste have in common. Hollandia Yoghurt is the leader of the yoghurt category, a position it attained through innovation and continuous passion for excellence. Similarly, Miss Yemi Alade has continuously innovated herself and has risen to the top of her music career with various award winning hits. Since it was introduced into the Nigerian market over 15 years ago, Hollandia Yoghurt has transformed the Yoghurt market landscape with its high quality products, packed under very hygienic conditions. To address varying consumer needs Hollandia Yoghurt has remained consistent in providing healthy, tasty, and nourishing yoghurt drink that contain proteins, minerals and vitamins that unlocks the energy in its consumers. A statement from Chi Limited, makers of Hollandia Yoghurt, say “Every day, Nigerians enjoy Hollandia Yoghurt because its nourishing goodness give them energy, serve as meal-replacement and keep them positively recharged to be at their best. “Whether on-the-go, at work, in school or at play, Nigerians trust the brand to nourish their body and keep them active. Therefore, it is no wonder that the brand has achieved the feat of becoming the most preferred and generic name for drinking yoghurt amongst consumers.” Speaking on the partnership, Yemi Alade said, “I am really excited about this partnership with Hollandia Yoghurt because the brand stands out differently from all other drinking yoghurt products. Like me, Hollandia Yoghurt displays an insatiable quest for increased creativity and innovation. I love the delicious taste and revitalizing energy of Hollandia Yoghurt.” On his part, marketing director of CHI Ltd, Mrs Toyin Nnodi, says, “In our quest to find a brand ambassador for the Hollandia Yoghurt brand, we have taken a strategic decision to appoint Miss Yemi Alade as our brand partner. “We are happy and excited about this new relationship and we are confident that this will be a mutually beneficial relationship for both parties.” Mr Deepanjan Roy, managing director of CHI Limited, said “Hollandia Yoghurt has provided satisfying nourishment for Nigerians for the last 15 years and would continue to demonstrate leadership in the drinking yoghurt category in the years ahead. We have set the pace for the drinking yoghurt category through the years, and through this partnership we look forward to working with Yemi Alade on a number of different projects to bring the beloved brand even closer to Nigerians”. Hollandia Yoghurt is made from high quality ingredients. It is available in two variants of Plain Sweetened and Strawberry, and comes in 1Litre, 500ml, 315ml, 180ml and 100ml pack sizes.