The United Kingdom government has pledged clean energy project investments in Nigeria and across Africa above N28.6 billion (£50 million) ahead of the UK-hosted UN Climate Summit (COP26) later this year. The investment commitment, held at the just concluded UK-Africa investment summit in London, saw clean energy projects across Africa and new links forged between UK and African companies, investors and policy makers to promote clean energy usage. The UK government will host the 26th annual UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of the Parties (COP) summit (“COP26”) in Glasgow, Scotland, in November 2020.  This annual conference is the forum for agreeing international action to tackle the threat of climate change. Minister of State for the Environment, Ms Sharon Ikeazor attended the UK-Africa Investment Summit and met the UK Secretary of State for Business, Energy, Innovation and Skills, the Rt Hon. Andrea Leadsom MP, to explore ways in which the UK and Nigeria can further strengthen collaboration on sustainable development, tackling climate change and on broader environmental issues. British High Commissioner Catriona Laing, said “The UK announced a range of partnerships with African countries that I hope will support Nigerian leadership in setting an ambitious National Determined Contribution (NDC) to global emissions reduction targets. “In particular, I hope that the £10 million (over ₦4.7 billion) UK Climate Finance Accelerator will help Nigeria secure greater investments in green energy, increasing the availability of sustainable power and creating new jobs.” She said, “The UK government is showing leadership, including through our legally-binding commitment to reach net zero emissions by 2050.  And I am delighted that Nigeria too is playing a leadership role, demonstrated through the strong participation at the UK-Africa Investment Summit by the Minister of State for the Environment Sharon Ikeazor and Nigerian national Damilola Ogunbiyi, who moderated the panel discussion on clean energy transition. Nigeria stands to benefit from the following announcements made on the occasion of the Summit: Commercial deals worth £7m (₦3.31billion) in the clean energy sector from Low Energy Designs (street lighting) and Trilliant (smart metering for Abuja DisCo). Also, a £38m (₦18.billion) boost to the Department for International Development’s Climate Compatible Growth Fund to support African governments to use UK expertise to expand their electricity networks and develop cleaner technologies. There is also a new £230k (about ₦109 million) DFID partnership with Lighting Africa to construct five solar testing labs across Africa, with the first to be launched in Nigeria and designed to help low-income consumers have access to high-quality solar products.