The senator representing Nasarawa west senatorial district at the National Assembly, Sen. Abdullahi Adamu, (APC), has urged Nigerians to shun ethnic and religious sentiments and embrace each other in order to move the country forward. Adamu, made the call yesterday in Dari village, Kokona local government area of Nasarawa State at a public presentation of a book titled, “The Grateful Heart’ written by John Mamman who was celebrating his 60th birthday. Adamu a two-term governor of state and the chairman of the occasion, said that the diversity of Nigerians is an assets that needed to be explored for the benefit of all. “If God wanted us to be the same tribe or religion, He could have created us to be so.
“If God the creator of heaven and earth and our maker in His wisdom made us to be different tribes and religion, why do we hate each other due to our differences. “If you hate anyone simply because such a person is not your tribe or religion, you are challenging God and not the person,” he added. He noted that both the Holy Bible and Holy Qur’an teaches love and not hate or killings on the basis of religious differences and wondered why the faithful of the two religions are acting to the contrary. He therefore congratulated the celebrant for clocking 60 and advised him to really thank God for keeping him alive and in good health. In separate interviews with newsmen, some friends, colleagues and associates of the celebrant, described him as a hard working and detribalised Nigerian.
Nicholas Aboki, Head of Civil Service in the state, said that the celebrant is known for hard work when he was still in active service and even now that he has retired. He said that the celebrant is also one of the great farmers in the state because of his belief in diversification of the economy in line with the vision of the government. On his part, Saidu Kurki, chairman of Kokona LGA, said that the celebrant is a father to everybody in the area. He explained that the area could have been more developed than it is now if they have up to five persons with the kind of virtue and attributes like the celebrant. In a remark, the celebrant who is Special Adviser to Governor Abdullahi Sule on LGA and Chieftaincy Affairs, said that he thanked God for all he has done and still doing in his life.