The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has said state governors who fail to commence implementation of the new minimum wage should be ready to take responsibility for the consequence of their action. The Congress however advises all state governments who have not complied with the implementation and immediate payment of the N30, 000.00 new National Minimum Wage to commence negotiations and implementation on or before 31st January, 2020, otherwise the State Government should be responsible for the consequences of their failure. It stated that state Councils have been directed to commence mobilisation of their members immediately. LEADERSHIP recall that the second labour centre in the country, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) had given a December 31,2019 deadline to the governors and had started mobilizing workers for what it described as a “showdown” with governors who fail to implement the new wage. The TUC in a communiqué at the end of the just concluded National Executive Council (NEC) said The communiqué signed by TUC president, Comrade Quadri A. Olaleye, and secretary general, Comrade Barrister Musa Lawal, also raised concern on the security challenge in the country. The Congress urged the Federal Government to intensify more practical efforts towards wiping out killings, kidnapping and insurgency to save the country from total collapse. The communiqué said NEC -in -session resolved to participate in a global rally against war slated for January 25, 2020; in view of the vulnerability of workers in war period. It reads partly, “NEC in session condemns all forms of casualization and slave labour in Nigeria. The Congress will in the year therefore engage any employer that violates the right of Nigerian Workers to unionize and have permanent employment. The Government is hereby advised to extend Local Content Policy as applied in the Oil sector to be applicable to other sectors of the economy. “NEC-in session appreciates the need to review the Nigeria Labour Laws to suit the present day realities in the world of work but warns against attempt from any quarter to remove labour issues from exclusive legislative list.”