As political tension in Edo State continues to heighten, the special adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Political Matters, Hon Osaigbovoe Iyoha, yesterday said the state government would no longer tolerate what he described as the continuous flouting of ban on political rally by the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The governor’s aide who made the position of the state government known at a press conference in Benin City, yesterday also vowed to stop Oshiomhole from holding any rally in the state. Comrade Oshiomhole had last weekend held a rally with a faction of the APC in Auchi, headquarters of Estako West local government, where some defectors were received. Hon Iyoha said the ban on political rallies has not been lifted but Oshiomhole flouted the order and violence was unleashed on some persons. Iyoha noted that Oshiomhole as governor would not tolerate anybody flouting his orders even by Chief John Oyegun who was then national chairman of the APC. He insisted that Oshiomhole remained suspended from the APC and all actions being taken by him were null and void. According to him, “Oshiomhole has become a lawless figure. He should desist from such activities. There is a current ban on political rallies as announced by the Edo State government and known by the police. The ban has not been lifted and he went ahead to gather brigands where they unleash violence in the state. “We will not allow that in Edo South. Nobody has monopoly of violence. When Oshiomhole was governor of Edo State, Chief Oyegun was national chairman of the APC. Never did anything like that happen. Oshiomhole should not now start forcing such pills down our throat when he did not allow such to happen when he was in government. We want to sound a note of warning to him. He did it in Edo North and succeeded he should not try it in Edo South.” However, a former commissioner for Information and Orientation, Hon Abdul Oroh, said the constitution was clear about freedom of association which include the right to hold rally. He said, “It is a fundamental right to hold rallies. They have failed previously to stop it. If there is any rally we want to hold, Oshiomhole will be there and we will be there. Freedom to express political belief is allowed. It is not within the control of the state government. “Obaseki cannot stop opposition to his re-election through violence. Obaseki should return to the path of peace and reconciliation. He should make peace with leaders of the party and respect other party members have the right to express their view. He should choose the path of democracy instead of tyranny. “They cannot say Oshiomhole has been suspended. We know how to suspend a member of the party. The constitution of the party is clear, they are abusing court processes. Oshiomhole has been presiding over affairs of the party.” 