The Governor of Ondo State and Chairman, South West Governors’ Forum, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, SAN has reaffirmed that the South-west security initiative, Amotekun, is neither a Regional Army nor an ethnic agenda aimed at obliterating and undermining national cohesion. Akeredolu, in a statement issued by
Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Donald Ojogo, also advised against divisive statements and utterances that are capable of compromising the genuine intentions of the South west governors. The governor reiterated his earlier position that Amotekun was initiated to compliment the efforts of the conventional internal security agencies that appear to have been hampered by the absence of local intelligence gathering architecture. Akeredolu noted that Amotekun when fully operational, would serve the purposes of local information and intelligence gathering for processing and usage by the conventional security agencies. He reaffirmed that Amotekun will merely supportive and not a replacement for the Nation’s security agencies. “The concerns expressed by individuals, agencies of government and several stakeholders are noted without bias. Where possible, the inexorable efforts of the South west governors will be deepened through relentless interface”, the governor said. The governor further stated that ,” As such interface and engagements continue, Governor Akeredolu finds it pertinent to say that the on-going discourse on the issue of Amotekun must not be misguidedly, used as a platform to ventilate personal or group views aimed at oiling primordial sentiments and grievances. Ethicizing the current situation is even more unhelpful. There should be no reason for such. “This is more so that the Amotekun scheme is not targeted at any non-Southwest ethnic group just as its benefits are to be reaped by all Nigerians irrespective of ethnic or religious placements. “Nonetheless, Governor Akeredolu has expressed confidence that the Southwest governors will not capitulate to blackmail either from within or outside the region but are ready to pursue the Amotekun security scheme through all permissible political and legal means. “Under circumstances of the nature of Amotekun, the choices are numerous. They range from prevarication and pretense; partisanship and sycophancy as well as moderate and complimentary steps not inimical to the corporate existence of our Nation Nigeria. The South west governors have chosen the later. In unequivocal terms too, each of the choices has a consequence, if not consequences. “Unfortunately, the steps of South West Governors have unwittingly, had to contend with forces of conspiratorial silence and unpretentious moves of sabotage. Each has a right to choices; but certainly, no one individual can circumvent the consequences of whatever choices he or she makes in life”. Whether his present will affect his second term ambition, Akeredolu said, “he is not perturbed by the possible consequences of leading the Governors of the South West in the formation of Amotekun. He stated that ,”In particular, fears and apprehensions have been expressed in many quarters that his role in the formation of Amotekun could mere his second term chances. This is far from the truth because Governor Akeredolu is on the path of national cohesion through collaborative internal security. “The decision taken in respect of Amotekun was in the interest of the entire Nation but not the Southwest alone. The political insinuations and blackmail are the required ingredients needed to make it credible. But such will not discourage the governor in any manner. “Expectedly, there are possibly, political vultures waiting to reap from an imaginary scenario, especially as we approach the 2020 Ondo governorship primary of our great party. For Governor Akeredolu, everything that is desirable must be blessed by God. 2020 is a year that will be decided by the people of Ondo State; it can only be directed by God and His Will alone shall prevail. “In words and in deeds, Governor Akeredolu will not sacrifice the compelling need to make lives safer in the South west on the altar of political convenience, comfort and partisanship. The welfare of the people must come first. “It therefore suffices that Governor Akeredolu considers more compelling, the need to institutionalize an acceptably complimentary and more enduring security framework in the South west. “For those who have chosen to impose deceitful contentment on themselves for sake of political ambitions, especially towards Ondo 2020, the choice is free for them to make. “The people are conscious and enlightened enough to discern the undercurrents; and more importantly, the consequences of those choices are lurking in the corners of our collective psyche, waiting to unleash on all of us. “Of all vices, deception is dangerous. It becomes most lethal when it graduates to hypocritical humility and pretentious cooperation. It must be stated that Governor Akeredolu, not oblivious of human imperfections that are not peculiar to him, prefers to live life accepting who he is and loving it rather than pretending to be what he is not. “It is imperative to state here that where true glory takes root and even spreads, all false and coloured characters like flowers, shall wane and will be unable to stand the vagaries of societal test. Such, like counterfeits do not last long.”