A group within the Edo PDP known as the PDP Equity Forum has kicked against Senator Ugbesia’s chairmanship bid of the party in Edo State. The group in a statement jointly signed by the co-conveners of the forum, Pastor Kelvin Odianosen and Madam Omololu Ojehomon noted the party was ready to take over from APC in the state, saying he should rather play the role of an elder and guide young politicians. The statement said the outgoing chairman, “Chief Dan Orbih who by our assessment has done wonderfully well, was in his 40s when he was elected the chairman of the party, we expect him to hand over to a younger man now that he is leaving at his mid-50s.” It said although Ugbesia has served the party well and they are grateful for his contributions in the past, he should not contest the chairmanship position. The statement reads in part: “As the PDP congress approaches, there are consultations within the party concerning who becomes the party chairman. One of the most prominent names who is going around meeting party faithful across the state is Senator Odion Magnus Ugbesia, a former minister and senator who represented Edo Central between 2007 and 2015. ‘’We are aware of the intention of Senator Ugbesia to contest or be imposed on the party as the chairman, but with all good intent, we reject such bid. ‘’However, the party will be viewed as unserious if the baton is passed to him because of his age. It will be difficult to defend the party and also difficult to have people join us. ‘’We need someone younger, vibrant, energetic, who is a grassroots mobilizer that will go around the state meeting with the party. The structure comes first, before the elections, what we do now will determine if the party will be in existence after the 2020 governorship elections,” it added. The statement further said in all honesty, Senator Ugbesia does not fit in the role and the party will be in error if it makes such a mistake, pointing out that in the PDP, they have vibrant and young members with unalloyed loyalty to the party who are in the three senatorial zones. ‘’We expect them to come out to contest and to be elected, not an elder who should be relaxing, watching younger ones turn things around and advising them periodically,’’ the statement added.  