The tasks of enhancing the productive capacities of industries, boosting trade and attracting significant foreign investment are critical to reviving nigeria’s ailing economy. Kingsley Alu writes. Following his inauguration by President Muhammadu Buhari on 21 August 21,2019, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, became Nigeria’s 40th Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment to oversee government’s goal of economic diversification to non-oil revenue earnings. Adebayo inherits an industrial sector that is shackled by significant supply-side constraints, such as poor infrastructure, excessive regulations, multiple taxes and lack of access to capital and foreign exchange. Furthermore, he inherits a business environment that still lacks sufficient incentives to attract significant private capital and investment. In his 2020 budget, President Buhari predicated his huge revenue projection of N8.155 trillion on an estimated GDP growth rate of 2.93 per cent, which he said would be driven largely by non-oil output, as economic diversification accelerates, and the enabling business environment improves. There was drop in investors’ confidence after an acute dollar shortage that happened from the fallout of the recession in 2016, intensified capital outflows and made investors shift to other markets for safety. Since that time, foreign investments into the country took a dangerous slide,  touching its lowest levels in 2018, according to data tracked by the United Nations Conference for Trade and Development (UNCTAD). too encouraging. The World Bank in its ease of doing business report expressed investors’ worries over several bottlenecks that had been hurting the growth of businesses in the country.Registration of property, sticking to contracts, and electricity among others were top among the concerns. The worry among industry experts is that It was expected that with its significant population advantage alongside its vast economic minerals and land mass, the volume of investments into the country would be at all – time high however, that has not been the case. For instance, In 2018, Ghana for the first time overtook Nigeria, to attract the largest investment deals in West Africa, UNCTAD reported. Another data from the National Bureau of Statistics(NBS) showed that investment into the country dropped 53.5 per cent in 2015 to $9.8 billion from $20.7 billion in 2014. At the pick of the recession in 2016, the figure reached its lowest levels at $5.1 billion. Investors started building up interest to invest again into the country, when Nigeria exited recession in 2017. Statistics showed that In 2017, foreign investments picked up at $12 billion and went further to $17 billion in 2018. The manufacturing sector’s contribution to GDP growth remains very low, non-oil exports are declining and, according to a recent UN report, foreign investment into Nigeria has dropped by 44 per cent. So, in those respects, some of the ministry of industry, trade and investment (MITI)’s five pillars have not proved to be successful. Several investment constraints have been identified namely in the areas of registering property,electricity and multiple exchange rates.  Registering Properties The World Bank raised red flag in its report when it scored Nigeria as low as 28.89 per cent in registering property. The bank also rated country low in terms of the cost, quality and the timing of getting ones property registered.  Electricity Nigeria’s epileptic power supply challenges was identified as a key issue that was scaring away investors and making them  look to other markets. According to data from the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), In 2017 alone, manufacturing companies in Nigeria spent as much as N117.38 billion in fuelling their plants to run daily operations, These have made many of them shut down operations or produce below capacity. The World Bank scored Nigeria 42.6, below the threshold in terms of companies getting access to constant power.  Multiple Exchange Rates Nigeria has been holding on to a tradition of a multiple exchange rate system since 2016. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) in its article IV, released earlier this year, urged the country  to scrap its multiple exchange rates, remove fuel subsidies and review electricity tariff as these were hurting many investors from the international community from pumping in huge investment into the country. But in addressing these issues, Adebayo assured that the federal government was committed to removing the challenges that are inimical to the nation’s economic growth. Adebayo spoke during the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) Presidential Policy Dialogue on the Economy in Lagos. The minister said that relevant government agencies were working on initiatives and programmes to solve key areas of concerns ranging from infrastructure, power supply to good road networks across the country. According to him, other areas of focus are, initiatives to improve patronage, ease business environment, ease access and cost of finance, multiple taxation issues, among others. He said the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, had achieved far-reaching reforms that had positively positioned the country on a growth trajectory. According to him, the government would continue to engage the organised private sector on progress made in implementing the initiatives and strategies toward encouraging investment and easing the business environment. The minister  expressed optimism that the business community would continue to leverage the initiatives to enhance their productivity, competitiveness and drive economic growth. Also at the 2019 USA-Nigeria Business and Investment Summit held in Atlanta, Georgia, United States, the minister Addressing participants at the forum, which include existing and potential investors that government was mindful of the challenges in the country’s investment and business environment and was making concerted efforts to tackle them. Specifically , he said there was a resolve on the part of the present administration to address the problems of corruption, political instability and insecurity in the country. The three-day event was organised by the Nigerian consulate in Atlanta in collaboration with the ministry to promote investment opportunities in Nigeria. The forum also provided a platform for private and public sector players from both countries to exchange, compare policies, network and review economic relations, among others. The minister represented by the director of infrastructure investment and policy matters, Mr. Olajide Bamidele, highlighted various reform initiatives by the government to further ease the country’s business environment and protect investments,stressing that Nigeria’s improvement in the latest World Bank ease of doing business index, which has seen the country move 15 steps upward, was evidence of the government’s efforts. Also at a similar outing during a stakeholders’ engagement for the Implementation of “Business Linkage Programme” for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and Multinational Enterprises (MNES)/Large Local Cooperates (LLCs) in Abuja,the minister said the ministry would attract Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) into the country by stimulating business linkages between large and small enterprises. Represented by Mr Olajide Bamidele, Adebayo said the ministry, through NIPC and SMEDAN play an intermediary role in a comprehensive approach for promotion of sustainable business linkages. He said both agencies would equally provide a combination of advisory (policy-oriented) and technical assistance (action-oriented) services in the field of FDIs and enterprise development. According to him, “There is the need to combine MSMEs support policies with FDIs attraction policies. Well – designed MSMEs and FDIs policies can ensure that FDIs work for local enterprise development.” He emphasised that stimulating business linkages had been a strategy for building local enterprises that could compete at home and abroad as well as meet employment goals. During a ministerial briefing before the Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC) led by Dr Doyin Salami, at the Presidential Villa, Adebayo called on the thirty six state governments and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to set up investment promotion agencies in their respective domains. He emphasised that setting up of the agencies at the state level in the likeness of the Nigeria Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) at the federal level would help address investment and investor-related issues. He therefore urged the Federal Executive Council (FEC) to pass a resolution to address specific anti-investment activities for effective collaboration with stakeholders to combat security issues and challenges facing investment drive in the country. He also called for the enforcement of all relevant agencies in the One Stop Investment Center which is housed in the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission, (NIPC). Specifically, he told the council that this was part of the deliberations held with state governments at the recently concluded 11th National Council of Industry, Trade and Investment held in Uyo Akwa Ibom State between 2 and 5 of December. He disclosed that he had also set up a delivery team in the ministry to fast track the attainment of its 2019-2023 roadmap under seven strategic work streams. The minister  listed the work streams to include, Implementation of the Nigerian Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP), Support the Growth of MSMEs, Improve MSMEs Market Access and Accelerate Investment in the Nigerian Economy. Others according to him are: facilitate trade and establish 21st century trade/free trade agreements,process digitisation and E-Government solutions and anti-smuggling measures. Adebayo, who was accompanied to the meeting by his Minister of State, Ambassador Mariam  Yalwaji Katagum, and top management staff of the ministry was commended by members of the presidential council. Also as part of the fallout from the Uyo meeting , the ministry said it was focused on ensuring the full activation of the six special economic zones namely, Lekki, Enyimba, Funtua, Ibom, Kano and Benue, ensuring credit access to 10million MSMEs at single digit rate, and securing $500million from AFDB Fund  for technology innovation and ICT development. Automating and digitising trade facilitation process, ensuring the enactment of the Company and Allied Matters (CAMA) Bill and other pending legislative and regulatory, reviewing the PEBEC mandate and implementing a 4 – year business environment transformation road map, improving compliance with Local Content Act and Executive Order 3 to improve local content utilisation among others were top on the cards. Stakeholders described the theme of the Uyo outing: “The Role  of Small and Medium Businesses in Poverty Alleviation in Nigeria:The Way Forward,” as very apt considering the resolve of the federal government to lift 100million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. Adeniyi said  his ministry had been pursuing the Growth Employment Project (GEP) initiative that was specifically aimed at supporting MSMEs operating in five high potential sectors of the Nigerian economy namely; ICT,entertainment, hospitality,light manufacturing,and construction, adding that government understood the role of micro , small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the development of any economy. According to him, major ICT hubs had been created in Lagos and Abuja through this effort.These hubs he maintained, were now major drivers in revolutionised software and E-commerce development in the country. He said his ministry in the last two years also, had trained and empowered 60 ICT entrepreneurs to drive growth in critical sectors of agriculture, financial services,energy,and robotics as well as light manufacturing. According to him,statistically, between 2006 and 2019,the number of grantees engaged and supported by the project increased by 525 per cent representing 828 MSMEs, bringing the total number of MSMEs supported with grants under the project to 1,717. “A total of 2097 were mapped into the training platform and have received either basic or advanced  training to further boost their skills in marketing management,basic accounting,human resource management,financial management,enterprise governance, general and operations management, personal productivity, tourism and hospitality management,” he added. The minister also disclosed that the services of BDSPs were engaged to provide business and consulting services to 625 MSMEs via the BDSPs’ technical assistance programme. Another area of significant achievement is the successful negotiation of the agreement creating the African Continental Free Trade Area, AfCFTA, and Nigeria’s signing of the agreement.Stakeholders told LEADERSHIP Sunday that Nigeria must build on the favourable Doing Business ranking and the AfCFTA to derive tangible benefits from them. But Adebayo was positive that Nigeria would  fully implement the terms of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and uphold its commitments on trade and regional integration. In remarks to a two-day national AfCTA forum in Lagos, the minister said Nigeria, however, would not allow smuggling and other predatory trade practices to continue unabated in the country as this undermines the nation’s development efforts and destroyed local industries, leading to job losses. He said government would not allow rogue traders to manipulate the rules of origin and disguise goods from outside the continent as made in Africa so as to qualify for duty free passage. He revealed that for a successful implementation of the AfCFTA, this government had constituted the National Action Committee to coordinate a wide range of actions at the domestic, regional and continental levels. From the studies done so far, the minister said, Nigeria has established that the AfCFTA can facilitate economic growth and diversification through preferential access to Africa’s market for manufactured goods and services. According to him, this can be done through upping the country’s production capacity, retooling and upscaling existing businesses and assisting sectors that would be negatively impacted to migrate to new areas; prioritising the resolution of bottlenecks that hinder competitiveness in trade, including hard infrastructure such as power and logistics as well as policies and regulations; and enforcement of trade rules without compromising the country’s efforts on trade facilitation and ease of doing business. He explained that the  Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) had mapped out goods and services where the country has strong potential to export to Africa. The AfCFTA entered into force on May 30, 2019 and its implementation starts in July 2020. The historic agreement provides an opportunity for Africa to create the world’s largest free trade area, with the potential to unite 1.3 billion people, in a $2.5 trillion economic bloc, ushering in a new era of development. The minister also disclosed that the federal government would soon commence a comprehensive review of the country’s trade policy. At an interactive session with the media in Abuja , Adebayo  said the government wants to restructure the country’s trade policy and reset the economy with it, and therefore would be using the instruments of trade negotiations to create a consistent safeguard to protect the nation’s economy. The minister said the trade policy review would enable the government to expand market opportunities for Nigerian companies as well as look into the ECOWAS Common External Tariff and the EPA that had been seen to be controversial. He further stated the willingness of the present adminstration to build on the blueprint of the immediate past administration in creating economic zones to boost the manufacturing sector but emphasised that “we are trying to avoid pitfalls that the last administration fell into and we are trying to do it in a way that it will not be controversial.” Still on the economic zones , while before the senate committee on appropriation, the minister revealed that the N14 billion budgeted for the Nigeria Special Economic Zones Company (NSEZCO) was still under investigation. Adebayo clarified that the money was still intact and in custody of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He said NSEZCO is not a private company but a company set up by the ministry of industry, trade and investment in cooperation with private investors. Adebayo made the clarifications before the chairman of the senate committee on appropriations, Senator Jibrin Barau in Abuja. According to the minister , the whole concept in setting up the company was to have specialised zones where special industrial activities would take place,adding that the setting up of the company had Federal Executive Council (FEC)’s approval, and presidential endorsement. He also disclosed that at the moment, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) , the Department of State Security (DSS) and other security agencies were investigating the matter . “Nobody has touched a dime from the money and it is being investigated by the appropriate security agencies. “We believe the federal government should hold a share in the company and we have stepped down plans because investigation is still ongoing on the matter but once the investigation is concluded, we will look at the proper manner in which the money should be set up. “Where there are mistakes, it will be corrected such that the government will hold a proper share and the private investors too will hold a proper share,” he explained.  Earlier, the chairman of the senate committee on appropriation , Senator Jibrin Barau, said the attention of the senate committee was drawn to the alleged misappropriation N14billion budgeted to a private company (NSEZCO) and it became a matter in the senate more so as the company is a private entity. Adebayo’s predessesor,  the highly controversial Dr Okechukwu Enelamah had allegedly illegally and fraudulently transferred N14.37billion from the capital account of the Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA) to a private company- Nigeria Special Economic Zones Company. Enalamah was also accused of changing the identity of the private company as it was discovered that the company’s real name was Nigeria Sez Investment Company Limited and not Nigeria Special Economic Zones Company (NSEZCO). Adebayo also hinted that a fresh automotive policy bill is in the works and would replace the suspended six-year-old National Automotive Policy introduced in 2013. This followed calls for a review by members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS). At the fifth Presidential Policy Dialogue organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) in Lagos, he said plans were afoot to send a new auto policy bill to the national assembly. By promoting the local assembly and production of vehicles, it was envisaged that the policy would halt, or at least, significantly reduce the estimated $8 billion spent on the importation of vehicles yearly. Adebayo said the new auto bill would contain the input and views of auto stakeholders, private sector operators and interests of Nigerians to achieve inclusive industrialisation and growth in local vehicles manufacturing in Nigeria. He said President Muhammadu Buhari declined assent to the recently- passed auto policy bill by the Eighth National Assembly because it was not well received by stakeholders, hence the need for a new bill. The OPS and auto stakeholders had mounted pressure over what they considered as negative implications of the policy for the economy, especially since the old policy adversely impacted on the cost of doing business, welfare of Nigerians, the government’s revenue and the capacity of the economy to create jobs. To this end, the minister informed that  the ministry would hold a stakeholders’ summit on the speedy reenactment of the automotive policy bill to boost the industry, noting that the policy when functional would enhance local investment in assembly plants by many automotive brands, stimulate economic activities and growth in the industry. According to him, the summit is slated for January 28, 2020 and would accommodate the inputs of stakeholders on the new policy before it is passed to the national assembly. He maintained that the bill is central to the development of the automotive industry, which is said to be currently under-performing. “We are already discussing with the management of the National Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) to re-enact the automotive policy to boost the industry,” he said. Adeniyi said it was good that the World Bank’s ranking for Nigeria on the ease of doing business had improved tremendously,and assured that the federal government would not relent but continue to do better. “We are working with the Nigerian Customs Service to see that importation of goods and processes by which they are brought into the country are faster and more effective. “We are working strenuously with the airport authorities to make sure that the arrival processes at the airports are made much easier and faster. “This whole idea is to make things easier for people who do business in Nigeria with the view to encourage them to invest more in Nigeria,” he said. He also said that the ministry would continue to encourage production of locally – produced goods through its engagement with summits and meetings organised by the business community in Nigeria to boost patronage and investment. According to him, the federal government was working with airport authorities to ensure that the newly-announced visa-on-arrival policy would allow for easier and faster processing of documents of persons and goods to encourage foreign investment. He said government would also launch an intervention programme for the country’s border communities in order to dissuade them from engaging in smuggling activities. The initiative is also part of the current measures being put in place preparatory to a possible reopening of the nation’s land borders, which the federal government ordered its closure in August, to tame dumping and smuggling. Adebayo said the present administration had unflinching faith in made-in-Nigeria goods and would continue to encourage their production and patronage. Also speaking, minister of state , industry, trade and investment, Amb. Mariam Katagum, also told journalists at the Abuja briefing that government was considering the opening of the country’s closed borders with its West African neighbours soon. According her, the border closure happened because Nigeria’s neighbours had complied with the various MoUs as well as the ECOWAS transit protocols, including the ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS). She said the government would reopen the border when member countries complied with the Economic Community of West African State protocol,which the affected countries violated. According to her, Benin and Niger Republics were not yet doing enough to ameliorate the challenges that led to the border closure. She further stressed that the magnitude of seizures and the number of illegal immigrants recorded before the closure confirmed the position of government on the matter. Katagum said there has never been legitimate transit trade between Nigeria and the two countries (Benin and Niger). The ECOWAS protocol on transit demands that when a transit container berths at a seaport, the receiving country is mandated to escort same without tampering with the seal to the border of the destination country. Unfortunately, she explained, experience has shown that both countries do not comply with this protocol. “Rather, they break the seals of containers at their ports and trans-load goods destined for Nigeria from the original container to trucks. In most cases, five containers loaded onto one truck and duty paid as one truck,” she said. Katagum argued that this improper trans-loading of transit goods made it impossible to properly examine such goods, resulting in the importation of illicit goods, including arms and ammunition, without being detected. She stressed that because goods were not examined, misclassification and a resultant loss of revenue became the ultimate consequence of this illegitimate transit trade. Katagum also disclosed that there was a meeting of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS),comprising Benin,Niger,and Nigeria basically to address the issues concerning the joint border patrol. She added that the committee had a meeting on 25 and 26 of November this year with the ECOWAS protocol and they would recommend a date for the opening of the border soon. Also while while declaring open the Bauchi State 1st National Trade and Exhibition Fair with the theme: “ The New National Economic Recovery and Growth Plan and Eventual Diversification of Nigeria’s Economy; the Role of Small and Medium Enterprises at the Ibrahim Babadamasi Babangida Square Bauchi  in Bauchi, Katagum disclosed that the federal government through the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has organized a training workshop for two hundred (200) women entrepreneurs on the shea butter value chain in the country. “As I speak, ladies and gentlemen, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council is organising a workshop in Ningi for 200 women entrepreneurs on the shea-butter value chain.  The targeted beneficiaries will be trained on best practices in shea-nut picking and shea-butter processing. At the end of the training, the women organisations will receive the complete set of shea-butter processing equipment to continue with the project.” The minister, who said the theme of the trade fair was in line with the present administration’s policy that was aimed at putting the Nigerian economy on a path of sustained, inclusive and diversified growth as well as job creation, reaffirmed the commitment of President Buhari-led administration  to provide both financial and technical assistance to small and medium enterprises to ensure their products met international standards. The minister called on stakeholders in the sector to support government’s efforts at strengthening the capacity of small and medium enterprises for job opportunities and ensure rural development. “The role of the business community, development partners, state governments and trade promotion activities like this cannot be over-emphasised. I therefore wish to use this medium to appeal to all stakeholders to draw inspiration and strategic direction from the Economic Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP) to articulate their economic programmes, particularly in the development of the real sector in order to revitalise the economy and create the enabling environment for business to thrive,” she said.   