State Police command has confirmed the killing of a widow, one late Mrs Nkechi Ezaka Ucha and one late Mr Ifeanyi Nwokwu following act of suspected infidelity by unknown persons at Umuezeoka Umueze Ezza Effium in Ohaukwu LGA of Ebonyi state. LEADERSHIP gathered that the victims were murdered at the weekend by unknown persons and thereafter locked them in a room after they might have killed them. It was also gathered that after the two deceased persons were discovered to have been missing, some neighbors went in search of them and after several hours of search, their decomposing bodies were found in a room were they were dumpt and the door locked. A source who hails from the community, who spoke on grounds of anonymity said “A married man and his concubine (widow) were murdered, their dead bodies were found inside the man’s room last night. “This is a worrisome development as this is not the first time we are witnessing this kind of ugly incident, sometimes last year, a similar incident happened where armed robbers killed a young man in this same Umuezeoka Umueze community and till now, the perpetrators of this heinous crime have not been brought to book. “The spate of killing and armed robbery activities in Umuezeoka Umueze in Effium Autonomous community has reached an alarming proportion. “So many of our illustrious sons and daughters can no longer visit home because of the fear of the unknown, our aged fathers and mothers have been living at the mercy of this terror men. “I am pleading with the IG of police and Ebonyi state government to please come to our aid as our people can no longer sleep at home and those of us who are in the cities can not come home because of cases of similar nature. “We are pleading for a police post which can help in securing the lives and properties of my people.
“We are also pleading with the police to use their high powered intelligence gathering to unraveled the killers of this people. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP, Loveth Odah confirmed the incidents. According to her “Yes, there is a report that two persons, a married man and a widow was found inside a room but we don’t have the detail of the incidents. “According to the report, their body is almost decomposing. But the perpetrators are not yet known and I assure you, police are investigating the matter and very soon we will unravel those behind it” she stated. Ends.