Unarguably, access to potable water is straightforwardly linked to hygiene. In this piece, TAYO TAIWO examines the Clean Nigeria Campaign in the face of sustained efforts to reposition the water resources sector. We try as much as possible to encourage our children to use the toilets available to us and happily enough, the borehole sunk by the government has been a great source of boosting hygiene not only among the children but even we the parents.” These were the words of Danladi Shamaki (not real name), a resident of Barago local government area of Bwari Area Council in the FCT. Like most residents of rural communities in different states across the country, Shamaki’s Shuni village is in dire need of water and sanitation awareness campaign so as to help residence boost their hygiene and have an improved health. There is no contesting the fact that access to water and sanitation is central to ensuring a healthy society as most of the common ailments especially the communicable ones, can easily be more complicated in an area devoid of potable water. Perhaps it was in appreciation of this fact and, as a means of underscoring the important role of water and sanitation in our lives that the United Nation effectively captures access to water and sanitation for all as one of the key sustainable development goals (SDG 6). The SDG 6 document captures the scenario more aptly when it notes that “Clean, accessible water for all is an essential part of the world we want to live in and there is sufficient fresh water on the planet to achieve this. “However, due to bad economics or poor infrastructure, millions of people including children die every year from diseases associated with inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene. “Water scarcity, poor water quality and inadequate sanitation negatively impact food security, livelihood choices and educational opportunities for poor families across the world”. Available statistics indicates that more than 2 billion people are living with the risk of reduced access to freshwater resources and by 2050, at least one in four people is likely to live in a country affected by chronic or recurring shortages of fresh water. While painting a gloomy picture of the situation, the SDG 6 document emphasized that “drought in specific afflicts some of the world’s poorest countries, worsening hunger and malnutrition.” Good enough, there has been great progress made in the past decade regarding drinking sources and sanitation, whereby over 90 per cent of the world’s population now has access to improved sources of drinking water. Experts are unanimous in their opinion that to improve sanitation and access to drinking water, there needs to be increased investment in management of freshwater ecosystems and sanitation facilities on a local level in several developing countries within Sub-Saharan Africa, Central Asia, Southern Asia, Eastern Asia and South-Eastern Asia. Indeed, to demonstrate its commitment to addressing the challenges of access to water so as to help further boost sanitation, the ministry of water resources has been in the forefront of strengthening the water, sanitation and hygiene project. The ministry, in line with its responsibilities, has been in the forefront of spearheading the implementation of the National Action Plan for Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH). Part of this obviously laudable initiative is the ambitious plan of ending open defecation in Nigeria on or before 2025. Expectedly, the Water Resources ministry has commenced aggressive campaigns towards implementing the WASH action plan and has been in the forefront of getting the buy-in of key stakeholders including government at state and local levels, and civil society organisations. Speaking in Abuja, recently, when he received the Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, the minister of Water Resources Engr. Suleiman H. Adamu urged state governments to partner with the federal government to implement a national and state campaign and transformational sanitation promotion agenda to end open defecation in Nigeria by 2025. Adamu, who reiterated the endorsement by the Federal Executive Council to carry out a “Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet Campaign,” also harped on the implementation plan for a behavioural change campaign across Nigeria. He enjoined el-Rufai to join the federal government’s drive by declaring a state of emergency on water, sanitation and hygiene with a clear message of state-specific plans, and development of roadmap using the national roadmap as well as improving the process of building public toilet facilities across strategic locations of Kaduna State. While expressing his fears that Nigeria would become number one in the world as the country with the highest number of people practicing open defecation if India which is 99.9 per cent away from the behaviour eventually becomes open defecation free in October this year, the minister disclosed that he is in the process of starting an advocacy visit to all the states of the federation to discuss the implementation of the national action plan. For his part, el-Rufai assured that Kaduna State will work with Water Ministry to improve access to clean water and sanitation noting “you have found a willing Partner in Kaduna State Government.” Reflectively, government’s effort to strengthen water, sanitation and hygiene received boost when President Muhammadu Buhari signed Executive Order 009 entitled ‘The Open Defecation Free Nigeria by 2025 and other related matters’ Order.’ Essentially, the Order which aims to see to the end of the menace of open defecation in Nigeria by 2025 was followed by the launch of the ‘Clean Nigeria: Use the Toilet’ Campaign.’ Our correspondent reports that the initiatives underscore the urgent need to increase the level of awareness amongst the populace on the dangers of open defecation, imbibing behavioral change, to stop the horrible practice and restoring the dignity of Nigerians by using toilets in homes, schools and other public places. “Our target is to address and reduce the worrisome statistics of 47 million Nigerians defecating in the open and creating jobs in the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) sector including, the use of by-products from the sanitation value chain in agriculture and energy production,” the minister of water resources has said. The minister however regretted the political challenges that attended the Water Bill under consideration by the past National Assembly but, expressed confidence that the 9th Assembly will favorably consider and pass the Bill into law. He assured of preparedness to continually work with all stakeholders to persuade Nigerians to appreciate the importance of the Bill, “which will enable sustainable management of our Nation’s Water Resources.” Nonetheless, Engr. Adamu appraised the recommendations made during the 25th council meeting and how assiduously the Federal Ministry of Water Resources under his watch has worked to make the desired progress. Good enough, the ministry of water resources under the leadership of Engr Suleiman Adamu, has been in the forefront of the Clean Nigeria campaign. Interestingly, the campaign is aimed at mobilising high level political support, resources and the entire populace towards building a new culture of safe and sustainable sanitation, and to achieve the target of making Nigeria open defecation-free by 2025. To demonstrate its commitment, the water resources ministry set up a National Secretariat saddled with the responsibilities of coordinating activities across the country. Engr. Adamu said that the success of the campaign is dependent on strong engagement with the states, local government areas and other stakeholders to secure the needed political and high-level commitment required to drive it. “This is to ensure that the deliberate and sustained attention needed to end open defecation in the country is put in place,” Adamu enthused adding that “current status of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) services in the country showed that only 11 per cent of the population is having integrated access to basic water, sanitation and hygiene services while 68per cent, 42 per cent  and 21 per cent have access water supply, sanitation n and hygiene services respectively and an estimated 47 million Nigerians practice open defecation.” Analysts assert that the launch of the campaign underscored the federal government’s commitment to promote good health and quality life for all Nigerians through the eradication of open defecation in the country. Marching forward, Adamu told Nigerians that only availability of water supply and sanitation facilities with good hygiene practices could help the country in achieving Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) targets. In such practices while emphasising on handwashing with soap evolve around child survival, nutrition, gender, equity and education in Nigeria. The minister affirmed that the use of soap for handwashing reduces the incidence of diarrheal diseases and other life-threatening diseases in the country particularly children under the age five. Reacting to the 2018 data WASH National Outcome Routine Mapping (WASHNORM) where 18 per cent of rural population have access to soap and water as against 27 per cent of urban population which shows that rural population are less likely to access to soap and water for handwashing than urban population, noting to say that the ministry in its efforts at improving access to water, sanitisation and hygiene in the country, had rolled out the Partnership for Expanded Water Sanitisation and Hygiene (PEWASH) programme targeted at the rural areas. He however said that availability of facilities does not necessarily translate to usage which why beyond having handwashing facilities, there must be emphasis on usage through continuous sensitisation. “In the spirit of leaving no one behind in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, we must ensure that opportunities for handwashing at critical times are provided at households, school, health facilities work and other public places. A cross section of stakeholders who spoke urged private sector players and development partners to synergise with federal government with a view to investing and harnessing the huge potentials of the water and sanitation sector. Adebimpe Matthew Fatokun, a retired staff of water board from one of the Southwest states, described the current efforts at strengthening WASH as the needed impetus to achieving the much needed access to water for all and expressed optimism that the government will remain focused as it has pledged time and again, so as to get the desired results. “To the credit of the Engr Adamu led federal ministry of water resources, Nigeria is making some modest progress towards achieving the SDG 6. And with the needed buy-in from critical stakeholders and governments at state and the local level, the future looks bright,” he said.