The Elders Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Imo state has taken exception to the recent statement credited to Rev. Father Ejike Mbaka of the Adoration Ministries Enugu on the ligation of the 2019 gubernatorial election in the state. The Elders who observed with shock that the priest pronounced judgment at his adoration ground in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the election -Senator Hope Uzodinma dismissed the proclamation as very sadly and contemptuous of the supreme court. In a statement on behalf of the elders which was made available to newsmen in Owerri, elder statesman and a chieftain of the Party, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu argued that INEC which duly and diligently conducted the polls had in honesty and in transparency and in pursuit of its duty as the electoral arbiter declared Chief Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP who scored the highest number of votes cast and also fulfilled all the other constitutional requirements and emerged the winner of the polls. The decision, he stressed was received with very loud ovation by the people of the state who he said desperately needed to have a new beginning. “Since then, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha has assumed office and very noticeable transformation has taken place in all aspects of life of Imo people. The activities of his Excellency Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha has been appraised on regular basis and endorsed by the council of elders”. Chief Iwuanyanwu explained that the council of elders are impressed with his achievements in the areas of road maintenance, water supply, security, payment of salaries and pension to retired civil servants in the state, adding that groups outside the state had equally rated his government very high in the crusade against corruption and inflation. As citizens who believe in the rule of law, Chief Iwuanyanwu said that the elders would not prejudge the verdict of the Supreme Court, saying that they have absolute confidence in the apex count to uphold justice. While urging the people of the state and supporters outside the state who worked very hard to effect the change in the state that brought Governor Ihedioha to power to remain calm and to wait on God and the verdict of the highest court in the land. The elders congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari for maintaining absolute neutrality and for resisting the temptation to succumb to the pressure of some politicians using his position in influencing the result of the election.