Ogun state government on Sunday, debunked rumour of the death of a pregnant woman, Mrs. Titilayo Akinsola, allegedly killed by the Lassa Fever epidemic while on admission at the Federal Medical Hospital (F.MC), Abeokuta facilities. This is coming just as authority of the FMC, Abeokuta also urged members of the public to disregard the purported death of Mrs. Akinsola, emphasising that the 29 – years old pregnant woman is still alive. In a statement issued yesterday in Abeokuta, the state capital by the state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker said “contrary to the reports circulating in the media”, the 29 – years old pregnant woman, who took ill and was referred to the FMC, Abeokuta was only transferred to a Federal Specialist Hospital in Edo state to enable healthcare givers mitigate her condition which required ” a multidisciplinary attention “. Acknowledging that a suspected Lassa Fever case was confirmed by the State Virology Laboratory last Friday 24th January, 2020, Coker however, maintained that “the patient is not dead but transferred to the Federal Specialist Hospital in Irua, Edo state, whose facilities provide the patient with the full benefit of multidisciplinary care required for her due to her pregnancy”. Also in a release made available to journalists yesterday afternoon in Abeokuta and signed by the hospital’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), Segun Orisajo, FMC urged members of the public to disregard the purported death of Mrs. Akinsola who was allegedly admitted at Ward “A” with laboratory examination confirming her being tested positive to Lassa Fever. Orisajo in the statement said the only death recorded in the hospital in recent time was that of a man who was diagnosed of suffering from “Dengue fever”. “The management of the hospital, under the able leadership of the Medical Director, Prof. Adewale Musa-Olomu wish to categorically state that Mrs. Titilayo Akinsola has been transferred to the Federal Specialist Hospital, Irua, Edo state; a designated Federal Institution equipped for the management of such cases”. Orisajo in the release also explained that FMC has commenced a “contact line tracing”, while panic control measures have also been activated towards ensuring that the disease is prevented from spreading.