Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said his administration will strive hard to provide a mass transit system befitting Africa model mega city like Lagos. The governor who beamed a special focus on the ongoing construction BRT corridor from Oshodi to Abule Egba when he went on inspection tour of the project assured that the 13.68 kilometre-long route will be completed in May, this year. Construction work has resumed on the project, which was started under the last administration. The project is being handled and supervised by the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA). When completed Sanwo-Olu said the project was expected to bring relief to residents, as it is expected to ease transportation challenges along the route. The Governor said over 200 mass transit buses would be deployed to the corridor for immediate operations, pointing out that additional buses would be delivered based on assessment of traffic situation and utilisation. He said, “This BRT corridor was conceived with the intention to address congestion and transportation challenges along the Oshodi-Abule Egba corridor. We are fully back on this project and we are pushing the contractor to step up the pace of work on it. Once it starts operation, this will significantly bring relief and reduce traffic congestion and transportation problems along this route. “We are hoping that by the end of May, we should complete the entire Phase 1 of the BRT infrastructure along this route. The work has been pushed up and there entire project is about 75 per cent to completion. The rest of the construction activities to be done include completion of bus shelters, rigid pavements and terminals.” Sanwo-Olu said the government had started to address some impediments slowing down the construction work on the path, which, he said, included blocked drainage network along the route. The Governor said de-silting of the identified drain channels at Katangowa market would be done to pave the way for completion work on the BRT lane. 