A coalition of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) under the auspices of Initiative For Conciliation and Right Protection has  called on the federal government to release the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN)’s  leader, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, just as it released former national security adviser (NSA), Col Sambo Dasuki (rtd), and the publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore. The federal government had recently released Dasuki and Sowore oncompassionate ground. But the group in a statement jointly signed by  Barrister Nwonkolo Geoffrey, Barrister Bala Hassan, Comrade Ekoja Godwin, Prince Adelaja Adeoye, Dr Abubakar Yahya and Comrade Ahmad Isa on behalf of Advocate Movement, Movement For Democracy And African Stability, ans Middle Belt Conciliation Initiative respectively, said the government should release El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat on compassionate ground. “The recent decision of the government to comply with the orders of some municipal and regional courts for the release Dasuki and Sowore is good for the stability of the Nigerian democracy. “No country can survive  in isolation; all democratic governments must not forget the international standards on freedom of religion or belief. “The primary sources of law underpinning the mandate of the special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief are article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 18 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief,” the group said. “Again, Sections 38 and 42 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (2011 as amended) are very clear on aspects of right to freedom of religion and freedom from discrimination. “No doubt that the Constitution is the grundnorm and makes those rights inalienable and non- derogable, except and unless on constitutional grounds. “The leader of the Islamic Movement  in Nigeria Sheikh Ibraheem El- Zakzaky, and his wife, Hajiya  Zeenat Ibraheem who were arrested since December 2015 during a military operation in Zaria, Kaduna State are still in detention and are yet to be freed,” the group said while asking for their release. “The federal High court declared their detention as illegal and unconstitutional in its judgement on the 2nd of December 2016. Government should also comply with this court order, release them and stay clean from selective justice. As the saying that goes, we are all are to be subjected to law not lavished to it and to be ruled by law not ruined by it,” the group added.