Niger State government has confirmed the death of four soldiers killed by bandits at the weekend in Munya local government area of the state even as the Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello called for a fresh and holistic approach to curb the activities of bandits. This is even as about 20 persons were yesterday morning kidnapped on their way to a naming ceremony while others were in their homes at Beni and Abolo in Munya and Paikoro local government areas respectively of the state. Malam Jafar Umaru Sarki, the village head of Beni confirmed that four persons were killed by the bandits aside the soldiers that were ambushed at the weekend. In a statement yesterday by the chief press secretary to the governor, Mrs Mary Noel Berjem, the governor charged the security agencies to introduce fresh strategy in tackling banditry that resurfaced in the state. Bello described the recent attack on some communities in Munya local government area of the state that left four soldiers dead, as sad and unfortunate. He said that the state government will continue to explore all avenues to ensure that peace returned to the troubled spots which, adding that there is a need to be on the watch out against informants of the bandits. The governor explained that normalcy had earlier been restored to the areas until the recent attack by the bandits who were said to have laid ambush on the soldiers on routine patrol in the area. Bello stated that the government will ensure that the needed support required by the security outfits will continue to be provided and sustained by the state government. While acknowledging that the bandits may have cross the river from Kaduna to launch the attack in Munya, he reiterated that the issue of insecurity is a collective battle which must not be left to the security agencies and government alone. Meanwhile, Bello has commiserated with the Nigerian Army and the families of the deceased soldiers who lost their lives in defense of their fatherland and prayed for the repose of souls of the gallant officers. The governor appealed to all citizens, particularly those living within the border communities, to remain proactive and provide security agencies with relevant information that will lead to the thwarting of potential attacks by the bandits and report any unsuspecting individual or group that might be connected with any form of crime and criminality.