Prof. Kabiru Bala yesterday emerged the new vice chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria. He came top among the 11 candidates that were selected for consideration from the 17 that applied for the prestigious office. Bala, who is a professor of building and construction management, was a former deputy vice chancellor (DVC) Administration of the university. The institution’s pro chancellor and chairman of the Governing Council, Mallam Adamu Fika, announced the choice of Prof. Bala at a press conference at  Arewa House, Kaduna, venue of the selection of the vice chancellor by the council. The elder statesman said that the selection process began on 24th September, 2019 when the Governing Council met and authorised the publication of advertisement in reputable national newspapers. He said that the advertisement was published on 3rd October, 2019, and remained open till 14th November, 2019. Fika explained that “on 3rd December, 2019, the Selection Board met and adopted a guideline to assist in selecting three of the applicants to be considered by the council. On 7th January, 2020, the council met and shortlisted 11 candidates to be considered by the board. “The Selection Board met for three days and selected three candidates and submitted to the council for considerations to appoint one of them as the new vice chancellor. The council met earlier this afternoon and chose Prof. Kabiru Bala as the new vice chancellor. I now have the pleasure to present him and his letter of appointment,” he said. The pro chancellor frowned at the allegation of the outgoing vice chancellor that due process was breached because the names of candidates had not been sent for clearance and that the guideline adopted by the Selection Board should have been submitted to the council for consideration and possible amendment. Fika said that there was no truth in the allegation, adding that “I believe you will all agree with me that there was no truth in the allegation by the vice chancellor, Prof. Ibrahim Garba.” Prof. Bala was born on January 7, 1964 in Kaduna. He attended the Local Education Authority (LEA) Primary School, Unguwan Sarki, Kaduna, after which he proceeded to Barewa College, Zaria, which he left in 1981. He enrolled for the Interim Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (IJMB) at the School of Basic Studies, ABU, Zaria in 1982 and graduated with a Bachelor’s degree in Building in 1985. Bala worked briefly at Amana Development Company in Kaduna and on December 10, 1987, he was offered employment as a graduate assistant at ABU and rose through the ranks to become a professor of Construction Management on 1st October, 2007. After joining ABU in 1987, he obtained Masters of Science Building Services in 1990, another Masters in Business Administration in 1998 and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Construction Management in 2001 all from ABU. He was at the Department of Civil Engineering, Surveying and Building, University of Abertay, Dundee Scotland as a Visiting Scholar in 1995. He has taught and examined several undergraduate and postgraduate courses, and has successfully supervised over 15 doctorates and over 30 Masters’ degree students to graduation. He has over 80 publications in national and international academic journals and referred conference proceedings to his credit; about half of the published work after attaining the rank of professorship. Bala was two-time unusual head of department. First, while a junior staff from 2001 to 2006 and then from 2010 to 2014. He was the pioneer ICT coordinator of the university from 2005 to 2006 and deputy dean, Faculty of Environmental Design from 2006 to 2008. He also served as director of Academic Planning and Monitoring from 2010 to 2013. He rose to become the dean, School of Postgraduate Studies and deputy vice chancellor (Administration) of the university. In February 2013, he was appointed chairman of the Board of Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria (CORBON) in recognition of his contributions to the growth and development of the building profession, and in October 2013, he was also appointed as a member of the Board of the National Universities Commission (NUC). He is also a member of several national and international professional organisations which include the Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB); Society of Construction Industry Arbitrators (SCIArb) Nigeria; International Facility Management Association (IFMA) USA; Chartered Association of Building Engineers (CABE) UK; International Association of Housing Science (IAHS), USA; Association for Project Management (APM) UK, among others.