As part of effort to promote safety and health in the workplace across nations, the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH), has unveiled the Nigeria edition of her advocacy project, “No Time to Lose” In a statement issued by the IOSH Head of global Engagement and partnership Stevens Allan, said that the unveiling of the no time to lose campaign was part of activity scheduled at the institution’s West Africa conference which took place last Wednesday at the Lagos Oriental Hotel. The conference which had participants from Nigeria and Ghana across the health and safety sector, captains of industries as well as safety conscious individuals. According to the statement, the vice president of IOSH Mr Kayode Fowode during the flag off ceremony explained the objective of the campaign. Mr Fowode, said that the consistent exposure at workplace to carcinogenic substances is one of the biggest causes of avoidable cancer in adults. An estimated 46, 500 people die each year in Africa as a result of their occupational exposure to carcinogens such as asbestos, diesel engine exhaust emissions amongst others. He said, “The campaign is a wake up call for us all as health and safety professionals and other stakeholders in the world of work to be proactive in working together to fight occupational Cancer. “Research shows that Thousands of men and women risk getting lung, skin, or bladder Cancer because of their jobs and many will die early as a result. He said the global safety body is proud to be working in collaboration with the Lagos State Safety Commission to make this campaign a success. The IOSH Head of Global Engagement and Partnership, Alan Stevens, reiterating on the no time to lose campaign said the body is doing everything within its powers to promote this campaign. He said IOSH has been able to reach millions of working people globally through practical guidance and tools to help organizations manage the risks of exposure to workplace carcarcinogens. “Our organization and the Lagos State Safety Commission are campaigning to stop thousands of untimely deaths due to work- related cancer. Most employers and workers are not aware of the impact of cancer-causing exposures. And many don’t know what to do to reduce the risk. “The “No Time to Lose” campaign is working to get the causes of occupational cancer more widely understood and help businesses take action.” He said. According to the Director General of the Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola, he said the campaign is well- thought out initiative to reduce workplace ill-health which many are not aware of. He said, “The commission as part of being proactive has partnered with IOSH Global and its national body to increase advocacy in this regard. “Mojola said the agency already has an action plan to be carried out under the 4Es program of the agency which are Evaluation of risk, Education, Engagement and Enforcement. “Lagos State Government and our agency in particular is proud to be associated with IOSH in this drive to ensure standards in the HSE profession as well as advocacy such as this.” Speaking on the outcome of the conference IOSH West Africa Consultant, Mrs. Funmi Adegbola, said she is proud at the turnout of the maiden conference and that Africa cannot be left out in the scheme of things. “I believe the foundation of the future of occupational safety and health in Africa has been laid at this conference. I charge everyone here today to be ambassadors of the good work IOSH has brought to us,” she noted. Some of the other top dignitaries who were present at the conference include, Bev Messinger, Chief Executive, IOSH,  Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo, Attorney General and Lagos State Commissioner for Justice, Dr. Ifeoma Anyanwutaku, Director Occupational Health and Safety, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment among others. 