In these report, GEORGE AGBA examines the concerns raised over the plan to gradually pull-out of military troops from liberated territories for replacement with the police and other internal security forces  across the country against the backdrop of federal government’s intention. The federal government announced last Monday that it would, from the first quarter of 2020, gradually withdraw military operations in some of the volatile spots in the country that have attained appreciable normalcy. Even as details of the pull-out plans are still being awaited, news of the withdrawal has literally terminated the nationwide celebratory mood that had ushered in the New Year in the affected states and places. Agitated governors, groups and residents of territories which the Nigerian military had successfully liberated from insurgents, bandits and kidnappers are making passionate pleas to President Muhammadu Buhari to shelve the idea for fear of renewed criminality. The spontaneous and sporadic pleas cut across different strata and segments of the nation. It is indeed one of the most defining moments for the nation’s military, security and intelligence agencies under the coordination of the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) led by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. The Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Ibok Ekwe-Ibas had made the announcement while briefing State House correspondents at the end of the first National Security Council in the New Year presided over by President Buhari. The naval chief disclosed that the withdrawal of troops would be done after a thorough threat assessment to determine areas where peace had returned to enable civil authorities assume full security control. According to him, the plan would enable the military focus on its primary duty of defending the nation against external aggression. Asked about places earmarked for the pull-out, he said, ‘’Basically, most of the internal security that we are having as you are all aware is supposed to be the responsibility of the civil authority, the police in particular. Howbeit, so long as Nigeria is not engaged in war outside, it means whatever internal crisis that we have, the responsibility rests with the police. ‘’In the circumstances that the military has to come in to stabilize the situation, it is only proper that once the area has been dominated by the military and the situation has returned to normal that the Nigeria Police takes over the responsibility. And in this instance, we also have the civil defence which is supposed to support the police in this regard. ‘’It is the work of the police to handle internal security, since Nigeria is not at war. The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps will support the police to provide internal security. You will recall also that Mr. President recently approved the recruitment of about 10,000 Nigerians into the Nigeria Police Force, hoping that once these Nigerians get the appropriate training, they will be in the position to fill the gaps. You are aware that Nigeria is such a big country that we cannot tie down the military even in those areas that the deliverables have been achieved and the objectives achieved”, he said. The naval chief’s disclosure certainly set off a chain of reactions fuelling expectations that in the weeks ahead, more clarifications will be made. But if reactions to the development in the civil society community are anything to go by, the pull-out plans are in order in line with long-held agitations to effectively de-militarise the Nigerian polity in compliance with global best practices. However, in the light of what observers perceive about the withdrawal plans as a fait accompli, there are pockets of fears and reservations, though baseless and unfounded, just as there are voices expressing support to the pull-out plans. Stakeholders in Benue State had penultimate Thursday pleaded with the federal government not to withdraw officers and men of Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) from Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba States. This was contained in a statement issued in Makurdi, Benue State capital by Mdzough U. Tiv, Ochetoba K. Idoma and Omi Ny’ Igede. They called on the federal government to shelve the decision to withdraw the OPWS team from the state and other neighbouring states. To allay their fears, DHQ’s acting director of Information, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu assured that troops were not withdrawing from their deployments. ‘’The good people of Benue, Taraba and Nasarawa are urged not to panic as troops are not withdrawing from their deployments. DHQ is not shutting down Operation Swirl Stroke’’, he said. Commenting, Benue State governor Samuel Ortom appealed to Buhari not to withdraw troops of Operation Whirl Stroke who were deployed to the state in 2018 in the wake of the herdsmen attacks. Ortom, who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, called for an extension of the presence of the troops to allow the displaced persons return to their ancestral homes. “Our position is an appeal to Mr President. He had done Benue well by deploying Operation Whirl Stroke to help tame the menace of herdsmen at the time Benue needed intervention. We appeal to the President to extend the life-span of the troops at least by a year to enable our people at the IDPs camps to resettle in their ancestral homes’’, he said. The governor said that he had already communicated to the president not to withdraw the troops from the state for now. His view tallied with the call by Benue-based pan socio cultural groups of the state which had last Thursday made a similar appeal to the president to have a rethink on the planned withdrawal of troops. But the Plateau State government described the federal government plan as a welcome development. The state commissioner for Information, Mr Dan Manjang, told a newspaper in Jos that the decision would rekindle the confidence of the citizens that peace had returned to Plateau State, nearly 10 years after troops under Operation Safe Haven, were deployed in the state. He emphasised that the peace efforts being driven by the state Governor, Simon Bako Lalong had yielded positive results. “I think the decision of the Federal Government to begin the military pullout from volatile spots is a welcome development because I believe that they must have done some assessment of the situation in those areas to warrant such decision. For us in Plateau, it is our desire that troops from Operation Safe Haven go back to the barracks because no state will desire that soldiers will be guiding it all the time. As it is, we are doing well as a state”, he noted. Zamfara State government opposed the plan to withdraw its troops from some areas in 2020. The state commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Alhaji Abubakar Dauran, said the police alone could not address insecurity in the country. The commissioner, who spoke on behalf of the state governor, Bello Matawalle, said the insecurity situation in the country needed collective efforts of not only the security personnel but other Nigerians. He said, “Although we are able to reduce banditry in our state through dialogue and reconciliation, we still want the military to be in our midst in case of any unforeseen circumstance”. Dauran added that the military Operation ‘Hadarin Daji’ had contributed to the restoration of peace in many parts of the state. On its part, the Adamawa State government said it supported the latest decision of the federal government to withdrawal troops in less volatile areas to the epicenter of the insurgency. The state governor, Ahmadu Fintiri, through the Director-General, Media and Communication, in the Government House, Solomon Kumangar, said it had long frowned upon the troops’ deployment in several states where internal security ordinarily should have been handled by the police. Kumangar said, “The latest decision by the government will help assist the military to take the fight to the insurgents. Our immediate thinking would have been that the decision would have been well-thought-out before it is implemented. “If the whole idea is to shore up the military in the North-East which is the real theatre of war, it will be welcome. The states in the North- East covering Adamawa, Borno and Yobe should see troop reinforcement rather than withdrawal because of the volatility of the region.” The Governor of Taraba State, Darius Ishaku, in his reaction to the withdrawal of troops, urged the federal government to reconsider the decision. The spokesperson for the governor, Dan Abu, stated that the efforts of the troops in restoring peace in the state could be thwarted if the soldiers were withdrawn. Abu said, “First of all, we are grateful for the good job they have done recently, especially since they intervened in the crisis in Southern Taraba and some other places in the state. “Their presence has been very helpful.  It has calmed down the crisis and we have been able to achieve relative peace as a result of their presence. For that reason, we are very grateful. But we believe that the withdrawal is premature because although there is relative peace now, there is a need for that peace to be sustained and their presence will go a long way in helping the sustenance of peace that has been achieved so far.” But President Buhari on Fiday allayed fears about the directive on gradual withdrawal of military operations in some volatile spots. Speaking through his senior special assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, Buhari reassured Nigerians that the withdrawal of the military from areas where peace had been restored would not be done in a manner that would expose communities to more risks of attacks. According to him, the withdrawal exercise would be gradual and carefully planned, and not abrupt or arbitrary to jeopardise the success already recorded by the military. President Buhari, while reacting to concerns and appeals from governors and community leaders over the proposed withdrawal, said the “administration will not abandon citizens in need of protection.” He urged Nigerians, especially public affairs analysts, to carefully study the statement following a security council meeting with service chiefs that the withdrawal of troops would be done after an “assessment” to determine areas where peace had returned to enable civil authorities assume full control. The President said where it is determined that the withdrawal would not in any way jeopardize the peace already achieved, the military pull out would be in a careful and gradual way. To this effect, a civil advocacy group, Concerned Professionals’ Congress (CPC) described the troop withdrawal plans as a welcome development bearing in mind what it called the obvious phenomenal achievements and accomplishments of the Nigerian military in the set targets”. The group said that it was necessary for the military to pull out of areas and territories where appreciable peace, progress and normalcy have returned, arguing that the parameters for the withdrawal will determine the time, mode, process and overall framework of the pull-out programme in a way and manner not to endanger the lives of the Nigerian people and consolidate on the gains of the military operations across the country. In a press release jointly issued in Abuja at the weekend by its chief media strategist, Emeka Nwankpa and the Northern Regional Rapporteur, Kasim Baba Kasim, CPC said, “The Chief of Naval Staff was very clear and precise on the pull-out plans. “The reality of the moment is that at very great price and odds, the Nigerian military under the leadership of the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin, his service chiefs, the commanders and troops have tirelessly and selflessly brought peace, order and normalcy to places that had experienced criminality. This is the reality of the moment”. The group praised President Muhammadu Buhari for his confidence in the capacity and competence of the armed forces to dislodge criminal elements to guarantee the security, stability, peace and unity of the country. “We commend the energetic Chief of Defence, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin. His unique style of leadership rooted in jointness, synergy and inter-agency cooperation has galvanized the entire national security architecture to effectively tackle Boko Haram and other national security threats’’, Nwamkpa said. The advocacy group urged remnants of Boko Haram to drop their arms, saying that their days ahead were numbered. It maintained that time was fast running out on them in the light of the re-calibrated counter-terrorism operations. It urged Nigerians to close ranks and fully support the military and other security forces by volunteering credible, useful and timely information to aid ongoing operations to rid the country of criminal elements in the interest of the security, unity, stability and sovereignty of the nation. Amplifying its call for more civilian support to the military, the group praised the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin and the service chiefs for the sustained onslaught against enemies of the peace, unity, progress and growth of the nation, noting that their selfless service to their fatherland is not in vain and will continue to be appreciated by generations yet unborn. The group called for more public support to the military and other security agencies across religious, regional, political and governmental levels in the country, cautioning against careless public statements capable of idolising Boko Haram.