AFEX Commodities Exchange has stated that Sesame, Cocoa, and Cashew led the non-oil export charts, grossing $84.97 million by the end of the third quarter of 2019. According to AFEX’s latest annual report, the agriculture sector in Nigeria has received significant attention, rivalling what was witnessed in the 2011 to 2013 period. “The renewed drive has been broad-based with virtually all sub-sectors; Livestock, Crop, and Fishery benefitting from the public, private and developmental investments in the sector. At the end of third quarter (Q3), 2019, Sesame, Cocoa and Cashew led the non-oil export charts, grossing $41.19 million, $30.03 million and $13.75 million over the period. Vice president AFEX, Financial Markets, Akinyinka Akintunde, said that the report was a reflection of AFEX’s continued commitment to educate the market and foster a culture of transparency for the commodities market in Nigeria. The report noted that structurally, the domestic commodity markets were structured as a spectrum of players got involved in a variety of activities necessary for seamless transactions in the industry. “The spectrum spanned from the producers to final off-takers with traders, merchants and other marketing agents serving as the backbone of the industry and helping to provide the much-required linkage services.” It stated that despite the export potential of cocoa and other cash crops, maize and soybean remained the most liquid commodities in the country owing to the much wider use for industrial and household consumption across the country, saying that in addition to these commodities, paddy rice and sorghum have begun to assume more importance in the local landscape while sesame and ginger gain more traction in the international consumption markets. The chief executive officer of the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Segun Awolowo, recently said that the country could generate huge revenue from cocoa, cotton, cement, leather, cashew, sesame, shea butter, palm oil, fertiliser, petrochemicals and rubber. According to Awolowo, what we hope to achieve is to raise more revenue for Nigeria from other sources. You know 90 percent of our revenue is from oil and we cannot survive with that. Even though oil prices are rising a bit because of Iran, there is problem there. But we should not rest on our laurels because, those days of $140 per barrel is gone forever. So we have to look inwards and produce more. “The zero oil plan is about raising production and productivity, we identified 22 sectors where we can earn foreign exchange apart from oil. We are hoping that in the next 10 to 15 years, we will be able to raise $150 billion from sources outside oil. “That is what we are working on and we are galvanizing the whole states behind us in other to raise production and productivity. We are working with the relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to achieve this. You know the Central Bank of Nigeria CBN just announced an initiative on five of our products and giving them low-interest rates to farm and raise production,” Awolowo added.