Gombe State Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development, Mallam Muhammad Magaji, in this interview with JAIYEOLA ANDREWS, speaks on the state’s 2020 budget tagged Budget of Change, the state’s debt burden, ghost workers, minimum wage, Nigeria’s debt burden, the nation’s economy and other issues of interest. Gombe budget in 2020 is tagged Budget of Change, how much change is it going to bring to bear on the people of the state? A budget of change, yes in a lot of aspects. First and foremost, for the first time in the history of Gombe State the budget went through scrutiny of the civil society, organisations, traditional rulers, leaders of thought, NGOs other persons, even motorcycle riders and women leaders, they were all called together and they gave an input as to what we expect from government in 2020. In that respect, it is a budget of change. It is also a budget of change in the sense that for the first time, again in the history of Gombe State, we have a budget that is driven by a capital expenditure rather than the status quo which has always been a budget being driven by the recurrent. Today we have a budget that is 55 per cent capital, 45 per cent recurrent that is the second point. The third point is that for the first time again in the history of Gombe State, the budget was submitted to the State Assembly, it was passed and accented to by the governor before the end of 2019. Meaning that by the 1st of January 2020, our new budget had already started being used, our budget accented to, the governor also signed the mandate for us to also commence work on the budget for 2020. So as as I am speaking with you today, our budget is in place and running in 2020. To what extent is the performance of 2019 budget? Well 2020 budget, had about 60 per cent performance in terms of recurrent, and in terms of 15 per cent in capital expenditure. Education sector has the largest chunk in 2020 budget, could it be because of low level of literacy in the state? Yes, if you have been going through the indices being released by various organizations, you find that Gombe State still lagged behind in education. We are about number 34, 35 among 36 of 37 states including FCT in terms of WAEC and NECO performance and that tells you that we are still very, very far behind. And about a month ago, if you had seen the documentary on Dadinkowa, one of our secondary schools, you will be sorry for the kind of infrastructure we have in the educational sector. The governor declared an emergency, he declared a state of emergency in education and so the priority is improving the infrastructure in education and improving the teachers, improving equipments and ensuring also that the students are well equipped and also funded. It is going to be free education up to secondary school and the governor is determined to ensuring this trend of being among the last five is reversed. And you know that will take time but the investment starts in 2020. We hope to start reaping benefits of that. What is the debt profile of the state and what is the position in its servicing? Well, we came and met about N 115 billion in terms of liabilities. That comprises of bank loans, contractual obligations, pensioners arrears that had not been paid and all I can tell you is that we have continued to meet obligations. We have not in any way relented, we have continued to pay the loans we met unfortunately and we have also paid over N1.5 billion in terms of pension liabilities. And again, all the projects we met that were even moribund, we have mobilised contractors back to sites and we have continued to pay. So we have met a lot on ground in terms of liabilities and we have continued to live above board, we have continued to ensure that we are transparent in whatever we do in the sense that whatever we get from the federation and our IGR, we put it into good use for the benefit of the people of Gombe State. How much loans in the state targeting and from what source? We have a deficit of about N16 billion and we tend to fund it, of course through loans and advances but foreign and local loans. Foreign in the sense that donor agencies will be contributing, we will be getting loans from foreign donors which is cheap for us and then, of course from our local bankers. I will say again that loans is not the problem, but putting the funds into judicious use. If we are going to borrow and invest in infrastructure that will benefit Gombe State, then not a problem. But when you borrow for recurrent, it becomes a problem and it means you are leaving above your means and this government is not living above its means. What is the state government doing about this hydra-headed problems of ghost workers and is there any plan to downsize its workforce? Well, we met issues of large numbers of workers both at the state and local government levels and we have plans, of course to look at the number in terms of ensuring that whoever works gets paid. But then if we have people who are not working and are getting paid, it means they are ghost workers. What can you say of Gombe in terms of adhering to the principle of due process? Again, another plus for the administration of Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya. The Due Process Bill has been signed into law which means anything we do, will be by law and it is a plus for the state. We have been able to meet that and not only being compliant in Nigeria but we have been able to meet World Bank terms and criteria. We have strengthened the office with a director general there, staff have been deployed there and they are independent and they have free hands to work. And again, the Fiscal Responsibility Commission is here, were have strengthened it, a chairman has been appointed from the Central Bank and they are also working and ensuring that whatever we do is transparent, whatever we do, is according to the law of the land. How soon will Gombe implement the N30,000 minimum wage? I just told that I came out of the meeting with Labour and we as a state, are bound with the new minimum wage, the governor has made it clear that the N30,000 minimum wage is not an issue for the state. What we are doing right now with the Labour is the modalities for the other cadres, level 17, hopefully by the end of next week we will be out of that. What is your position on the controversy trailing IPPIS? There is no controversy, whatever system that will bring sanity to the payment system, is acceptable, is a welcome development by us. We as a state, will ensure that technology drives all our processes not in terms of paying salaries and paying pensioners, but also in giving other areas, employment, other services and even in the running of government. We want to run an e-governnent before the end of this tenure by the grace of God. Has the state been able to recoup alleged stolen funds by immediate past administration? Did we say funds were stolen? We said we have liabilities, government resources had been taken but I can say that we have committee on the recovery of government properties and yes we have recovered some properties in terms of vehicles, and other equipments and the committee is yet to round up and submit its report. Hopefully, during this first quarter of the year, they should be able to round up and submit their report so that we can make public, what we have been able to recover from the past officials of government. The economy of the nation appears to be on a free fall, what do you think is the way out? The economy of the world, not just Nigeria: all countries are facing one challenge or the other. But for us in Nigeria, yes we had a recession four years ago and we were able to come out of it. Growing has been our problem, we are not growing as we should grow but you will also see that new economic policies, fiscal policies and other policies now being churned out by government through the Central Bank and the Federal Ministry of Finance and is all aimed at ensuring that we return to the path of growth not on growth but sustainable growth and ensure that we curb inflation because these are the issues. If we don’t grow and then we have higher indices of inflation, it means that people will continue to go down the poverty line. Do you think Nigeria should continue to borrow in view of its huge debt profile? Well, two things matters. one, borrowing is not the problem if we are borrowing for infrastructure and we are borrowing to generate income, to generate jobs and revenue then we should borrow. Second, if they are borrowing and you are not being productive and is not contributing to the growth of the economy as well as the betterment of the lives of the people, then comes a problem. The revenue generation of Gombe State is on the lower side, what are the modalities the government is putting in place to shore it up? We met a moribund IGR, Internal Revenue Service, it is being restructured, we have a new chairman, new technology being deployed, we hope to quickly enumerate and domesticate laws that ensure that we collect taxes applicable to Gombe State. And I believe that if we are able to conclude that in the 1st quarter, you will see a lot of changes in terms of our collections. The governor is wooing investors to the state, but there is dearth of industries in the state, how does the government hope to find a way around this? This government is just 6 months, so we don’t have industries, yes we didn’t meet industries but we have put a lot of structures in place, we are doing roads in all the local governments, open up the local governments. Luckily, the Dadinkowa Dam is ready for commissioning, is a 40 megawatts dam which will produce. 40 megawatts of light and apart from the light, the Dam is there fully functional and will provide irrigation services. We intend, as governor has said, when he was on entourage of Mr. President to Russia, he intends to establish industrial park in Gombe. Already, we are in talks with foreign investors for an establishment of agro industrial park in Dadinkowa, we are also in talks with the Qatar Business Council in that respect to ensure that this industrial park comes to reality. We hope not to only provide agro industrial park, but hope to ensure industrial park that other businesses will come in. Don’t forget agriculture value chain is very large, we are not just talking about food production, we are also talking about cattle rearing and also, of course meat production and diary production. And don’t forget again, luckily, Gombe  State is the first state that the National Livestock Transformation Plan will be establishing a cattle ranch. The value of the cattle ranch is over 200,000 square metres and the government has been partnering with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the minister was here a few months ago, he has inspected the site. The President in his January 1 speech said in this quarter, he would be laying the  foundation of Gombe National Livestock Transformation Plan. What effort is the state government making in blocking financial leakages? As I said, we are deploying technology in terms of payments, we want to ensure that wherever leakages are, we block them. Of course, I told you the Fiscal Responsibility Commission is fully in place aside the auditors we have and the due process office is there. We have ensured that we have strengthened our capacity, we have strengthened all the organs of government to check leakages, we are also strengthening the office of the auditor general to ensure that he has staffs that are capable and have the capacity to audit the government affairs. So we are not leaving any stone unturned to ensure that we are transparent and accountable to the people of Gombe State.