Regina Askia-Williams FNP, Miss Unilag 1988, The Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria (Miss MBGN) 1989, found fame as an actress and model. This multi-talented beauty queen is today a US based family nurse practitioner, healthcare and educational activist, television producer, writer and public speaker. She is our Woman of Substance Early life Born into a comfortable family. My parents were blessed. Dad was a highly placed government official and mum was an educator. I had a well- rounded childhood with everything I needed and wanted. Educated in great schools and well-travelled. Even though I never realised nor was particularly appreciative of it, I was blessed. I would enjoin all parents to do their best to give their children a great home environment, great education/skills and teach a value system that will serve them through life.  Early career days Fabulous! TV commercials, print modelling, television shows, Nollywood etc. My upbringing had me able to spot opportunities and engage. It took me far.  Challenges I had a reputation of being sassy and hot headed. Thank God for growth. I always wrote down my goals and strategies. I can’t begin to tell you how well that has served me. Have a mental image or envisage what you want from start to finish. It tends to unfold that way.  Showbiz in Nigeria Show business in Nigeria has grown in leaps and bounds. There is need for industry influencers to guide it properly. Work out registration, licensing, practitioner fees and royalties. There is need for intelligent scripting. The African shows and movies that become hits are those that are authentic. Tell the true story of old and contemporary Africa. We need to showcase our true history in the stories we tell with our movies. It’s the only way we can put our best foot forward. Soup-A-Stars Soup-A-Stars is geared towards community health and wellness using African recipes for healthy nutrition. It also showcases African food Culture. We are simply what we eat. Diseases like high blood pressure and diabetes and subsequent target organ damage can all be controlled or even reversed by the foods we eat. Soup-A-Stars sought to encourage us all to eat healthy. Nutritious foods, portion control and exercise. In 2020 Soup-A-Stars will feature regionals in the various regions across Nigeria. Registration is ongoing at our website.  Philanthropy Philanthropy is quite simply giving. Giving of yourself (skills), time (volunteering), community service, gifting and of course monetary awards. In Nigeria people choose to see philanthropy as just monetary gifts. It should not be so. Along with giving monetary awards which I do, it is important to me that a person learns a marketable skill- advanced or basic – does not matter but everyone must have a set of skills they can earn money with. As a Nurse Practitioner, my skills are invaluable (in high demand) on any part of Gods earth. Choose what you love to do and develop skills thereof. Use your skills and get a certain level of financial independence. Please this is critical.  Mentoring Mentoring to me means teaching, guiding, sharing knowledge in such a way those you mentor can arm themselves with this knowledge and be success stories too. I can’t tell you how frustrated I feel when Nigerians in positions to mentor say to young people “it’s God”. God will always be king in the affairs of men but he did give you practical pathways to follow. I think a person should share practical steps to success. Encourage their mentees to do all they can and then pray for God to bless their effort. Our work is indeed our silent prayer to the universe, give it your best shot and then stand.  Mentors I like Michelle Obama and I have read up on her humble beginnings, her school choices, her love life, her choice of Barrack, her career choices, her family life and her success story I chose her because she is a black woman in America facing the peculiar problems black people face in this environment. There are many African women/mentors I admire but the African situation for me does not flow. It’s almost unreal especially as the puzzle does not add up. The path of choices and investment to success is often not easy to trace and as such it’s hard to set practical examples for young people. That’s when you hear that popular refrain “it’s God”.  Inspiration I grew up in a loving family that was very much community service and growth oriented. There was that understanding that we all are our brother’s keeper, that we are in this world to leave it a little better than we found it. We all came blessed with talents to share and we are here as a gift to each other but for a while and then we are no more. Let us appreciate each other, let love be our guide. It was out of this family my inspiration to live a life of service was born.  Legacy May it please God to make my life journey an inspiration to many, that the beauty of life is in the journey, that gratitude shifts our attitude, that they too can do it. A life of love and service.  