The new president of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Toki Mabogunje in this interview with OLUSHOLA BELLO, spoke on the importance of public policy advocacy, creating an enabling environment for investors, and supporting capacity building for small businesses. What has been the performance of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in 2019? In 2019 the performance of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) was a mixed performance and some of the things that limited their performance during the year are still there. Is it power and infrastructure that we want to talk about which are still a problem, amongst others? There were certain things that improved slightly such as funds to the SMEs sector. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) implemented a policy asking banks to give about 65 per cent of their portfolio to SMEs. This is an effort by CBN in growing the economy. Also, there are other funding windows for SMEs as a result whether it is coming from development banks like the Development Bank of Nigeria, Bank of Industry, among others.  As the new president of the chamber, what are you bringing on board? You know the chamber does not grow SMEs, the chamber enables them to survive in the environment. I will be dwelling more on the Chamber’s mandate, advocacy and trade promotion. We will have quality engagement with the government and its agencies. The chamber engages with the government and its agencies on all levels, including the federal, state, and local, to facilitate an enabling environment for investors, whether domestic or foreign. We typically address a whole range of policy issues that affect the private sector, including fiscal, monetary, trade, infrastructure, and institutional. We identify the issues through feedback from our members, who are in business and are able to articulate the challenges of the business environment. LCCI also creates networking platforms for its members and the business community as a whole. Such platforms have resulted in the building of partnerships between domestic and foreign investors in Nigeria. We will be doing more of capacity building for small businesses. The Nigerian economy is largely made up of SMEs, many of which have capacity shortcomings in managing their businesses.  Government recently approved 7.5 percent increase in VAT, what’s your take on this? My take on this is that, it makes life more difficult for businesses; this will increase the price of goods. I think part of what government did with the Finance Bill was actually on the one hand to reduce tax burden for small businesses that have less than N25 million annual turnover, they are exempted from company tax, but on the other hand, government has increased Value added tax (VAT). Certainly, increase in VAT will affect the price of goods and services.  On border closure, what’s your take? The government has been able to achieve the objective of the border closure, around having a more secure border. But this has also been negative for some sectors doing legal businesses around the border. The agriculture sector has benefited more from border closure as farmers were singing to the bank and they are begging the government not to open the borders again because Nigerians have now been forced to eat Nigerian rice. Late last year, we had a discussion with the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo on the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA), looking at reopening of the border. What are the terms and conditions of AfCFTA in enabling Nigeria not turning to a dumping ground? We on our side will continue to engage the government in this discussion, there is no doubt that the borders will have to open, done in a proper way for the growth and development of the country.  What is the Chamber doing in making SMEs competitive as AfCFTA takes off? The AfCFTA agreement is going to be tough for all African countries but there is no doubt as Africa we should start trading with one another. Africa is a continent with the biggest market in the world and that is why everybody is looking at us. In SMEs, there is still a lot of preparation to be done. SMEs have to be export ready to benefit from the agreement. Already, we have the agencies that are require us to be export ready such as Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) that will tell about us the standard products to meet, and National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) that will certify the product good enough to be consumed not just in the country but outside, among other agencies.  Could you access African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) advantage to SMEs growth? You know that African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) was really an attempt by the President Bill Clinton’s administration to actually give Africa an opportunity to export and the idea was on SMEs. When America government realized it was difficult for Africans to access, AGOA offices were set up in African countries and we have an AGOA office in Nigeria. Countries like Ghana has taken advantage, but in Nigeria we have not.  What is your outlook for SMEs in 2020? The outlook for economy in SMEs looks positive and will improve as against previous years. Lending to SMEs by banks will be on increase going by the CBN policy. Certain sector will shine, there is a great push in agriculture, technology companies are doing marvelous things and the fintech companies are giving the banks a run for their money. Although, the challenge of power may not improve by much, we are still going to have shortage of power supply because there is only so much that can be improved on in a span of a year. So, power may not improve to any great extent. Infrastructure, roads may improve slightly because Dangote is working on some roads and the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu is also working on some roads. So, hopefully, we see improved roads network before the end of the year. The ports authority is working tirelessly in decongesting the port. Also, if the government keeps to their promise on the kick-off of the railway system by the end of this year, this will make a big difference. Nigeria scored very high on creativity and entrepreneurial skills globally as this shows we have a way of being creative and finding solutions to our problems. Finally, the regulatory authority are beginning to develop what is called a listening ear unlike what we use to have before. Whether we like the answer or not is a different matter but we definitely get an answer. So, we have a listening ear, which means there is hope for resolutions of problems.  