Gbemisola Saraki needs no detailed introduction to those familiar with Kwara politics. For those not familiar with Kwara politics, Gbemi Saraki, was two times Senator and now minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria from Kwara central. She is a daughter of late Abubakar Olusola Saraki and younger sister to the immediate past Senate President Bokola Saraki. Although both Gbemi and her brother Bokola share parental background yet according to some section of the media, partisan politics divided them so sharply that they hardly meet eye to eye. According to one account, even the death of their father did not bring them together under one roof. But as things stand today, the demolition, by the state government, of their purported family house has exposed the fallacy about them (Gbemi and Bokola) concerning their so-called frosty relationship.  We all can now see the lie behind the Sarakis in Kwara. They both made people to believe that relationship between them was not at all cordial; this not cordial relationship was designed with sole aim of diverting attention from their continued exploitations of collective patrimony of the people of Kwara. On the surface you will see Bokola and Gbemi fighting each other but beneath it, they are in a good and cordial relationship. This however brings us to the issue of letter which she (Gbemi) wrote and tagged: For immediate release entitled: “those who come to equity must come with clean hands, the demolition of IIe- Arugbo.” However, Gbemi’s letter did not come to the good people of Kwara state as something surprising, as good people of Kwara knew quite well that since Bukola has spoken certainly Gbemi must follow suit since they both have one and same game which is continued domination of Kwara people. In the said letter Gbemi alleged amongst other things that, she always kept quiet on the happenings in Kwara for number of reasons topmost was because she is a loyal member of her party. She added “I don’t want to get into any squabble with the governor despite so many provocations.” The question one may be tempted to ask here is: what sort of provocations by the governor is she talking about? What and what did the governor do to provoke her? Was it the exposure by the Abdulrazak led administration of bazaar lootings that went under the watchful eyes of her brother when he held sway as governor or was it the mindless looting carried out by her brother’s god-son that constituted provocations to her? Since Abdulrahaman Abdul-razak assumes office in May last year as governor of Kwara state, it is to everybody’s knowledge that he has never carried out any programme or pursued any policy that was  detrimental to the interest of the people of Kwara state. Or was pursuing good policies and programmes which core intentions are to uplift standard of living of ordinary Kwarans that she considers as provocative? If anything Gbemi Saraki owed it a duty to tell the good people of Kwara what Governor Abdulrazak did to her that was provocative. Gbemi Saraki as serving minister and loyal party member as she claimed, she indeed, ought not to have uttered a word regarding the demolition of Ile- Arugbo. She knew quite well that their late father did not acquire such land legally; the land belongs to the good people of Kwara State and regardless of all the antics so employed or yet to be employed by the Sarakis, what belongs to the people of Kwara must be return to them. After all, Gbemi Saraki has no any moral right to talk about the demolition of IIe- Arugbo for the simple fact that what Gov. Abdul-razak did was aimed at recovering what has been stolen from people. Gbemi Saraki ought to have place public interest over and above personal interest; by her action therefore she has openly placed private interest over and above public interest which was a total and complete negation of the oath she took as Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In a civilized clime, this open abuse of office by Gbemi Saraki could have instantly repudiated by the discerning minds. Resignation as Minister of Federal Republic of Nigeria is the only option left for Gbemi at the moment, or fire out rightly.  At a time when President Muhammadu Buhari is fighting corruption and abuse of office by public officers, here we have a person who is a cabinet member in his government who not only demonstrates open disdain to transparency and accountability in governance but shown flagrant abuse of office through words and actions in her home state. President Muhammadu Buhari must do something urgently about this flagrant abuse of public trust by Gbemi at least to serve deterrent to all those who may wish to follow her path in his cabinet. Respect for rule of law, transparency and accountability are the core values of Buhari administration, for Gbemi to come out and challenged these principles in her state of Kwara amounts to total disrespect to the principles of President Buhari and what his government stands for.  –Bonjilo wrote from Offa, Kwara State. 