Simply put, body shaming means criticising a person for their body type and size. This discrimination can cause a lot of things including depression, eating disorder, reduced self-esteem and an increased risk of various other mental and physical problems, TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes. Different cultures and societies have always had an ideal body type. In Nigeria, it is that of the lean, chiseled man with six-packs and the firm, curvy woman. But thanks to the media, there seems to be one body type that everyone should strive to attain and it does not fit into every culture; that is the problem. This problem is the reason we have body-shaming and it is a lot older than you may think. To a very large extent, it all boils down to standards; standards that are held in such high esteem it becomes easy to lampoon those who do not fit in. While fat-shaming involves criticising and harassing overweight people about their weight or eating habits to make them feel ashamed of themselves, skinny girls also suffer the same fate even from unknown Nigerians. Some persons opine that that body shaming may motivate people to eat less or more, exercise more and lose weight depending on what their body size is. In the majority of cases, body-shammers, especially people who fat-shame others, are slim and have never had to struggle with weight problem. It is not uncommon to see people under the guise of humour, criticise the bodies and habits of those who do not fit these standards in one way or the other. At other times, it is done, ostensibly, with the intention to get these people to take responsibility and work on their bodies. To solve the problem, you must understand its scale. How do you explain terms like ‘orobo’ or ‘lepa’ a growing name that may soon find its way to the Oxford English Dictionary? On the streets, it is not unusual to hear passers-by stare unconscionably at over-weight people. That is if they stop there and don’t make jokes about how you need to pay for two seats in public transport. Nigerian celebrities are not left out, in this age of social media, they have faced body-shaming on an amplified level. Most of the hate is directed towards women. Ex-BBA housemate and budding media personality, Uriel was shamed recently for what a troll termed her “saggy boobs”. Others like OAP Dami Elebe and Tolu “Toolz” Oniru are constantly the butt of jokes and vitriolic attacks from social media trolls. Davido was caught in the web of body shaming. He did not anticipate how intense the backlash will be when he body shamed a woman who criticised his political motives and that has encouraged an apology from him. Davido, however, apologised to the female lawyer, T. Lolo, and all women after body shaming her in his response to her shade over his political involvement. His apology was not only directed to Lolo, the woman who told the singer that he was selling his soul by campaigning for the People’s Democratic Party’s presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar, but to women all over the world. The 26-year-old singer admits stress as one of the reasons for his body-shaming comments. He also highlights his personality of being impulsive. Davido’s apology captured a remorseful pop star who is also advising the subject of the verbal assault on better ways to make her thoughts known to him instead of reaching him through private channels. Fatima Musa (not real name) was looking traumatised, worried and dejected just after her interview session with one of the new generation banks in the country, sadly she was denied the job not because she was not qualified or competent enough but she was denied the offer because of her skinny nature. Ms. Musa said while on her way home, she contemplated suicide because of the derogatory comment she was bashed with by the interviewer who told her she was too skinny and unfit for the job. ‘‘Before my interview with them, I was called on the phone and told I was one of the preferred candidates for the job, saying I did very well in the aptitude test. I was so glad going for the interview, despondently, I felt so sad not given the job because I have a passion for marketing. What makes it harder on me is the comment by the head of marketing, he told me am not looking fit for the job, while everybody laughed at me, his demeaning comment makes me feel very terrible about myself,’’ she said. She said although she was not born skinny, it’s really hard for her to gain weight. Ms. Musa said that body shaming can be hurtful and can lead to serious health problems including depression. She stressed that it is radically unfair to say that if somebody is size one or two, then you cannot work, just like it is unfair to say that if you are a size 16, you cannot work for a company. ‘‘Funny enough, no matter who body-shames someone, it can be hurtful. You can be body-shamed by strangers, by the online community, or even by close friends and family members. Everyone is susceptible to body shaming, you can be body shamed for your size, your hairstyle, your skin colour or what you look like, just to name a few. However, regardless of what you are body shamed about, get rid of it. ‘‘In my secondary school days, I was described as chubby. I was a border in Federal Government College, Kaduna. I remain a very brilliant and confident girl thanks to my upbringing and education. Confident yes, but five years ago I was diagnosed to be having ‘anorexia’ an emotional disorder characterised by an obsessive desire to lose weight. ‘‘Perhaps I will get over my condition someday, but, in recent years, I have learned to cope with different comments about my body. In this part of the world, you are not exactly a full woman in the eyes of many Nigerians if you do not have the curves to prove your womanhood. And you’re not woman enough if men do not find you appealing. I had to deal with people calling me names like ‘pelenge, ‘lepa’ and the likes. So definitely, body shaming is something I never allow to get to me at all.’’ A lifestyle blogger, Blessing Abdullahi noted that skinny shaming and fat-shaming can lead to suicide. Mrs. Abdullahi, however, urged Nigerians to be careful while talking about someone’s stature as it can lead to depression. Narrating her experience, she said: ‘‘When I was 18-years-old, I was very skinny, I will go to the market spend more time than others select clothes but no one will size me, my skirt will need to be reshaped. ‘‘I think slim people will understand this more, we are body shamed even by unknown people. You can be walking on the street and someone will call you ‘lepa’. I was walking with my sister on an errand for my mother and a man called me ‘lepa’. I got so fed up that someone volunteered to do HIV test for me and my sister. Fear gripped me and her that she was scared to open the result. I then summoned the courage to open the result then I felt very happy because the result was negative.’’ Mrs Abdullahi noted that although she has added a little weight now but, people still call her ‘lepa’. ‘‘Even yesterday somebody called me ‘lepa’, so I feel the National Orientation Agency (NOA) should enlighten Nigerians on why they should halt body shaming people,’’ she said. ‘‘Although I don’t want to get very fat, I want to add weight a little, when I look at fat people, I see it as stress so I don’t wish to get fat. I wish to add a little but not to be fat. For now, I don’t really pick offence if someone called me fat. ‘‘Body shaming can kill. It gets to a stage that I exchanged insult with people on the street for body shaming me or calling me ‘lepa’. ‘‘During my secondary school days, my principal urged me to join the basketball team because of my height but, I was actually skinny. Not that I like playing basketball. But now I love basketball so much. ‘‘Also, you can hear derogatory comment like you this ‘lepa’ girl I will fling you like paper. But I feel it is bad body shaming people. ‘‘Fat people face the same thing too some people call them ‘orobo’. By and large there is no perfect shape in this world but it is okay to be moderate,’’ she added. There is a general belief that body shaming only has to do with skinny people. But that is a huge misconception. In Nigeria, plus-size women and men probably have it worse. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Friday, a body positivity activist, who is the chief executive officer of Shima Collections, Princess Pedro, said that people who body shame others have lower self-esteem and this pushes them to act the way they do which reflect the true states of their mind. Ms Pedro noted that though it might be the intention of the shamer to make you feel like crap, so as to take advantage of you, their words should not be absorbed or taken seriously. She decried that plus-size women were rarely represented in the mainstream media and high fashion and even the smaller percentage of those represented were diverse. Ms. Pedro urged people to love themselves in the most positive way. ‘‘First, you should know who you are and love yourself, so you should feel less concerned about what people say about you. Don’t even think about them any longer than the moment. At this point, you should practice self-love, know your own strengths and focus on the good things in your life ‘‘Remember that cruel things another person says are about their own prejudices and misconceptions, not about who you are as a person. Their intention might be to make you feel like crap, you don’t have to absorb their words, or take them seriously. ‘‘People who body shame others reflect their state of mind. Some have low self-esteem and this pushes them to act the way they do. It is therefore not about you but them; it is about their lower esteem they are trying hard to project to you,’’ she added. Also, the convener, Female Student Vanguard (FSV), Divine Otu, urged Nigerians to speak out whenever they are bullied by anyone. She noted that some people might not know they are body-shaming or hurting you. According to her, ‘‘ I understand, terribly and irreparably, how devastating body shaming can be when wielded against anybody, including a thin one like mine. At this point, you understand why body-shamers should be called out to let them know how you feel about their opinions of you. ‘‘Body-shaming people is never a thing to be proud of, people commit suicide and are constantly depressed because of this so fight back if need be, do not be redundant. It is probably not a good idea to get into a serious verbal or physical altercation, it is worth taking them to the task and defending yourself or others. If your emotions aren’t getting the best of you, try to speak with the offending person directly and explain why their comments are harmful in a cool manner.’’ Reacting, to the growing menace, the assistant director, Press, NOA, Paul Odenyi, said that the act of body-shaming is highly condemnable. He said NOA as an agency of government promotes the fundamental right to life and dignity of all Nigerians. Odenyi stressed that humans should not be body-shamed or dehumanized in any way. He called on Nigerian to shun Body-shaming especially during the period when suicide appears to be on the rise. According to him, ‘‘NOA is an agency that promotes the fundamental right to life and dignity of all Nigerians. Body shaming is condemnable. Any act that dehumanise human being and his worth should be condemned by all and should be shunned. ‘‘At a period when suicide seems to be on the rise. The NOA has also intensify campaigned against body-shaming on the premise that life is sacrosanct and so none, by law is allowed to take his own life or body-shame somebody to have suicidal thoughts. Generally, body-shaming is not good.’’ 