The partial closure of some Nigerian borders with neighbouring countries has contributed to increase revenue generation by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) as it generated the sum of N1.3trillion for the year 2019, way above its targeted revenue collection. The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in a statement yesterday said the border closure forced cargoes that could have been smuggled through the porous borders to come through the sea and airports, a situation that raised revenue collection from ports. “Before the commencement of the border drill on 20th August 2019, revenue generation was between N4 billion to N5 billion but now NCS generate between N5 billion to N7 billion daily,” the service said. In a new report that was issued yesterday, the Nigeria Customs said it generated the sum of N1,341,690,568,327.18 trillion for the year 2019. The amount generated is over the target of  N969,831,167.83 billion set for the year 2019 and N139,241,835,082.29 billion over the sum of N1,202,448,733,244.89 trillion generated in 2018 by the agency. The partial border closure is a decisive action against the challenging issue of trans-border crime and criminalities, fueled by the noncompliance to ECOWAS Protocol on transit of goods by neighbouring countries. There is an ongoing discussion with the affected countries, which many hopes will yield permanent solution to the challenges of border security in Nigeria. In the same vein, the NCS said its efforts to prevent the entry of items that could compromise the security of the citizens, national economy and the wellbeing of the citizenry resulted in the seizures of 30,906 assorted items with a duty paid value of N62,134,426,199 billion. These seizures include arms, ammunitions, illicit drugs, used clothing, vegetable oil, frozen poultry and foreign rice among others that have grave consequences on economy security and wellbeing of Nigerians. The Comptroller-General of Customs, Col, Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd) described the revenue hike as a result of resolute pursuit of what is right rather than being populist by compromising national interest on the altar of individual or group interests. The service believes its recent reforms aimed at increasing revenue collection responsible for the upward trend in revenue generation. The reforms are basically: Deployment of officers using the standard operating procedure; enforcement of extant guidelines by the tariff and trade department; automation of the Customs process thereby eliminating vices associated with the manual process and stakeholder sensitization to ensure compliance. “While we give our assurances of total commitment to the course of nation building, we call on Nigerians, especially the business community to support the NCS on the ongoing drive to robustly contribute to National Security and create enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the country. “The Service wishes to express its readiness to strictly implement the outcome of the ongoing diplomatic engagements,” it said. Meanwhile, the NCS, Area II Command, Onne Port, Rivers state has generated a total revenue of N107.3 billion from Duty Paid Value on imported goods in 2019. This was even as the command also generated $78,402,057 (N28.4 billion at N362/$) from export in 2019. This surpasses the annual target of N96 billion for last year by N12 billion which represents 112 percent of the target. In a press statement by the Command’s public relations officer, Ifeoma Onuigbo Ojekwu, the Customs Area Controller of the Command, Comptroller Aliyu Galadima Saidu disclosed that a total of 24 seizures with Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N1.3 billion, were also recorded in the area of anti-smuggling. The seizures, according to the CAC, include 99 containers comprising vegetable oil, detergents, bags of foreign rice, scraps metals, corrugated aluminum sheets, furniture, tin tomatoes (tomato paste), insect repellant/killer, bales of fabrics and wax materials. The seizures were made due to wrong documentation, false declarations, wrong classifications, concealments and non-provision of end user certificates for the imported machetes. However, preliminary investigations carried out by the Service revealed that the primary motive for the items being smuggled was to evade paying the correct duties. He also disclosed that a total of 255,407 metric tonnes of goods with a total Free On Board (FOB) value of $78,402,057 which is equivalent to N28,420,745,662.5 at N362.5 per dollar were processed and export through the area last year. Also, in comparing the revenue generated between year 2018 and year 2019; the total sum of N94 billion was realized in Year 2018. This shows 14 per cent increase in revenue generated in year 2019 as against year 2018. Comptroller Saidu, who frowned at the continued menace of smuggling across the ports and borders, also lamented the detrimental effect it has on the nation’s security, social and economic wellbeing. He advised those involved in such unpatriotic behavior to desist from it, and warned that the command will not spare anyone as efforts will be intensified in locating and investigating the economic saboteurs, no matter where they hide. He also urged genuine business men to continue being law abiding and run their businesses with utmost compliance with the law as a way to build trust and integrity in their dealings. Saidu also expressed appreciation to the Comptroller–General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd.) and his management team for their consistent encouragement and support; while reassuring continued resilience and diligence of officers and men of the Command in carrying out all statutory responsibilities without compromise. He extends a hand of fellowship to stakeholders including sister agencies, the business community and other organizations, thanking them for their support and cooperation with the command, while commending the resilience and diligence of all the officers last year. He also urged that the effort be sustained and improved upon. He said: “2019 has come and gone. I want to commend you all for your effort in revenue collection, trade facilitation and anti-smuggling. We can do better than we did last year by staying more vigilant against smuggling, duty evasion, concealment, under declaration and other unlawful acts. “Those involved in trade related malpractices will be looking for ways to beat the system, but we have deployed our trainings to productivity through diligent profiling, uncompromising examination, improved trade facilitation, strategized intelligence and tact exhibition for this year 2020 and beyond.”