Four cases of Lassa Fever and five tropical diseases have been reported in Nasarawa State. The state commissioner of health, Ahmed Baba Yahaya, disclosed this yesterday at a press briefing to mark the world neglected tropical diseases celebration. The Lassa Fever patients, he said, have been quarantined and are under observation in and outside the state. The disease identified by the state commissioner for health include Onchocerciasis, Lymphatic Filariasis, Schistosomiasis, Trachoma and soil transmitted helminthes, affecting the 13 local government areas of the state. The commissioner further disclosed that the state is also hit by Dengue fever, Buruli ulcer, yaws. Leishmaniasis, human and animal Trypanosomiasis Rabies, leprosy, snake bite. Guinea worm and mycetoma, which mapping is yet to be carried out on. He said in order to stem these diseases, the state government with the support of Carter Center, has trained 45 local integrated health team members, 611 community directed distributors, 2,153 teachers, 42 school supervisors and seven social mobilisation officers. According to the commissioner, the state has received 502,700 tablets of mebendazoles and 194,984 tablets of praziquantel drugs from the Federal Ministry of Health for the treatment of schy age children, enrolled and non-enrolled in public and private primary and junior secondary schools in the state. “With support from the Federal Ministry and Carter, the state programme intended to mobilise and train 45 local integrated health teams, 225 health facility staff, 611 community directed distributors, 42 school supervisors, 13 social mobilisation officers and 2,824 school teachers to stem the spread of the disease,” Yahaya said. He said further that, “the people affected with neglected tropical diseases as a result of poor or lack of environmental sanitation, poor housing, lack of safe portable drinking water and personal hygiene adding the state also intended to treat 720,000 school age children for Schistosomiasis and soil transmitted helminthes.”  He explained that the state is mindful of the neighbouring states of Kogi, Taraba, Benue, Kaduna and FCT who are still struggling with these diseases and risk of re-infecting state through the border local government areas.  He expressed nostalgia that Nasarawa and Plateau states “are the only states in the country that have a wonderful pace in the fight against neglected tropical diseases.”