The Director-General, National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Prof. Abubakar .O. Sulaiman and some members of the Institute’s Management were received at the Army Headquarters by the Chief of Military-Civil Affairs, Major General U.S. Mohammed, on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff on Thursday, 23rd January, 2020. According to a statement by the information office of NILDS, The visit bordered on embedding the armed forces, particularly, the army into the operations of the Institute, which are largely based on research, capacity building and knowledge management towards advancement of democratic governance. While briefing the audience, the Director General commended the military for the peaceful co-existence it has forged within the twenty years of the country’s return to civilian rule. He also praised them for allowing democracy to thrive, while rendering great service to the nation with regards to tackling insurgency, kidnapping and all other threats to the country’s security. Prof. Abubakar mulled the path of collaboration between NILDS and the Army, so as to draw from the institute’s pool of researches and archive as well as lean on its manpower for in-depth studies and strategic thinking towards in combatting aggressors. “While we hope to provide tailored training programmes for military officers, it is pertinent to build institutions through institutional collaborations which will transform public administration institutions into effective, efficient, transparent, accountable, innovative and citizen-oriented ones to accomplish missions of the State including delivery of services” the DG said. In his response, Maj. Gen. U.S. Mohammed thanked the DG for recognizing the contributions and support provided by the military in stabilizing democracy. He extolled his efforts to ensure that the roles of research and capacity building find a strong footing in the realization of strategic engagements required in their operations. The Chief of Military-Civil Affairs also said that the Army will seek more collaboration and synergy with NILDS and indeed the legislature in their future dealings. He hopes that the DG and the National Assembly will participate in the Chief of Army Staff conference coming up within the quarter where a platform will be created for interaction and better engagements, vis a vis practical relationship between civilian authorities and military leaders.  