The Lagos state commissioner of energy and mineral resources, Olalere Odusote said the state government mass transit program will go green beginning this year. The BRT buses according to him will be configured to run on clean gas to reduce greenhouse emissions as he expressed the desire of the current administration to create enabling environment for oil companies in the state in line with its campaign for ease of doing business. He also said the current administration in Lagos was determined to promote clean energy and improve its use in Lagos. “Over 200 schools in Lagos are currently benefitting from solar energy and the administration is making spirited efforts to bring in more schools into the mix. We also plan to pan out the first phase of gas-powered vehicles for public transport in 2020 which was driven by the desire of the current administration to deepen the use of gas by fixing infrastructure in the state. This sector is of outmost importance and its improvement should be a collaborative effort between the government, private sector and the end users”. Odusote disclosed this at the inaugural “Enyo Correspondents Breakfast Session” organised by leading downstream company, Enyo Retail and Supply. The forum was part of Enyo’s initiative to upskill stakeholders to drive innovative solutions needed in the downstream sector to attain its full potential in Nigeria. The forum brought together Energy Correspondents, Dealers and Experts from Finance, Logistic and the oil and gas sector and featured a panel discussion and two presentations urging stakeholders to share insights on the industry. The panel of speakers included Chief Executive Officer, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited, Abayomi Awobokun; Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources in Lagos, Olalere Odusote; Chief Executive Officer, Transport Service Limited, Deji Wright and Energy Finance Specialist, Rolake Akinkugbe-Filani. In his welcome address, Tunde Folawiyo, Chairman, ENYO Retail and Supply Limited said, “This year’s forum was carefully designed to provide insightful and constructive ideas and solutions towards navigating the country’s downstream sector.