The current statistics place Nigeria as the second highest in the world when it comes to paternity fraud. The country has around 30 percent cases of paternity fraud in the population. This according to Abasi Ene-Obong, chief executive officer of Stack Diagnostic, Lagos, is quite high. Celebrities in the entertainment world are among Nigerians who have been caught in the web of this paternity issues over the years. The following are five celebs that were enmeshed in paternity mess.  FEMI KUTI Femi Kuti is the heir of Fela Kuti, the Afrobeat creator. The musician who is a staunch believer in Pan Africanism like his father, the Abami Eda, also does not believe in the marriage institution. He told an online platform that he has six children, two from another man who are all living with him. Femi Kuti said, “I discovered through a DNA investigation that two of my children did not belong to me and this was when I was barely 46 years old.” The discovery went viral on the social media, even though the DNA test was undertaken with the consent of the children and their mother, adding that one of his legitimate children is now studying Music in England.  DAVIDO Top musician David Adeleke popularly known as Davido has been involved in two paternity scandals. Twenty four years old Amanda of the then Georgia University, accused the singer of impregnating her. Out of the blues, another woman, Ayotomide Labinjo, told the world a few years ago that the singer was the father of her then three-year-old daughter named Aanuoluwapo. The woman explained that she had a sexual encounter with the singer in February 2013 in Ibadan, she became pregnant, lamenting that the singer dumped her and the baby. “A month after the first encounter, Davido again visited  Ibadan for Gbenga Adeyinka’s Easter show and we hooked up  for a night out and slept together at an undisclosed  hotel around Iyaganku area of Ibadan, Oyo State. Our communication was flowing until I told the singer I was pregnant in March, 2013,” she claimed. The issue became messier when Davido’ father got wind of it and requested for a paternity test to prove his son was the owner of the baby. Mother of  Ayotomide, Ropo, visited Lagos and met with Chief Adedeji Adeleke  requesting for a DNA test to determine the paternity of the daughters pregnancy. Her words: “When the father was no forth-coming, I wrote a letter to Davido’s father but there was no reply until our lawyer wrote to him. It was then he called and explained what happened between my daughter and his son and he arranged for the DNA, but said his son told him that he did not know my daughter. Davido’s father later sent his driver to Ibadan to bring us to Lagos for the test. After meeting him, he told the driver to take us to Davido’s house….. From there, we went to a hospital, Davido was in another car. I was suspicious of the whole set up because there was no indication that the facility could handle DNA test. My daughter was called upstairs with Davido and the child and she was not allowed into the office of the doctor. Out of curiosity, my daughter opened the door and saw Davido giving lots of money to the doctor after his father had already paid for the DNA test. “Davido and the baby’s blood samples were only taken so I asked the doctor why he did not take that of my daughter because Davido’s father had told me that he paid for the three people at N65,000 each. They asked us to come back after two weeks but the result came out after seven days. Davido’s father sent a car to bring us to Lagos again for the result. Davido had left the country then. The result showed that Davido was not the father but my findings after that showed that only blood test was carried out and not DNA test.” Ropo, a widow whose case has also been taken up by blogger Kemi Olunloyo, said she told Davido’s father that when she had the money, she would go to a government hospital to conduct another DNA because she was sure that the test carried out was not a DNA test. “I have written Chief Adeleke to do me a favour by presenting Davido on the day of the test. From what I know, hair sample or saliva swab and not only blood sample are used for DNA test,” she said.  WIZKID Ayodeji Balogun popularly known as Wizkid has also been involved in a paternity mess. Sometime ago, the top musician, Wizkid, received the first knock in paternal issues with one Miss Shola Ogudu, his baby mama. At first, Wizkid even refused to accept the boy as his own and Sola needed to get a DNA test to prove that the boy was Wizkid’s son. The fight between Wizkid’s and Sola’s family lasted for two years before the famous Starboy finally accepted the child. With the improvement in technology, paternity cases are beginning to surface from different individuals, both the rich and the have-nots as reported in different media platforms. Different personalities were sought out to seek their thoughts on this issue and taking DNA test to resolve it and its implications. Queen Blessing Ebigieson, an actress and movie producer says she doesn’t have a problem doing a DNA test. “The truth is I don’t have a problem with having DNA test if he doubts a child or children you call his for his peace of mind he can have a DNA test to avoid problems in the future because if he doesn’t he might be treating the child or children badly. However, having a DNA test done on you kids is good for them but would damage your relationship with your woman because you are telling her you don’t trust her so it depends on the woman involved. She might never be able to forgive her man for doubting her like that. So the man should choose to lose his wife for his peace of mind or just believe in her. I mean if you say you love someone, you must trust that person. Trust is key in every relationship however this is the 21st century and I don’t see anything wrong in having a DNA test done. But men can be wise about it, you can have a DNA test done without your wife or girlfriend knowing, all you need do is spend some time with the child and pick one thing from the child. His or her toothbrush, hair, blood etc.  You don’t need anything from the woman to do the test and you don’t really need the child to be present to have it done so if you have doubts do what you must but with caution because if you talk to your woman about it ‘e fit no end well oooo not all women would understand,” she said. Mr. Akinyele Akinde, a chartered accountant says doing a DNA Test is necessary when in doubt. He stated that he is not in a position to say categorically because he trust his wife and his four children are his. “I am not in a position to say whether I’ll do a DNA test or not because I have not experienced it. If I had perhaps my reaction will be different. But it is okay to do a DNA test when the suspicion is unsettling the family. A DNA test will clear the doubts and prove the true paternity of the children. I have not experienced it but I know it happens and children are born in the home and the man thinks he fathered all the children until situation prove themselves otherwise. “I know of a family whose two out of the three children are not from the man and the wife had to disclose it to the husband but at this time they are both advanced in years and the two children are studying abroad and the man not wanting to burst the bubble allowed it to rest. Later the wife died and the children are doing well in their endeavours. The man is now considering whether to tell them now or not but the wife that should have told them are dead. This became disturbing for the father not knowing what to do. It is painful for him that he raised those two children that are not his but are considered bastards. But because the children are doing well and his own only legitimate child too. He wants to allow the matter to rest. This happens from time to time and is a disturbing trend and speaks of the depravity in morals in humanity,” Akinde stated. Yemi Amodu, a movie producer and actor, stated that for him a DNA test is not necessary because of the trust that exists but he could do so if the situation is different. “I need not do DNA because I trust my wife. Nevertheless, things can go wrong between two people, if she has to claim my children belong not to me, I can do DNA to prove her wrong,” he stated. Uche Iwuji, an actress says doing a DNA test is in the right order. “I am in support of a DNA test. It is necessary for every family to do a DNA test on their children. In this world when a lot of things happen, fathers are not sure if they fathered the children they are raising, they should go ahead and conduct a DNA test to ascertain the paternity. For me I will do a DNA test as it is the best measure to prove that the child is yours and the father or man has got to pay for it because you asked for it. So a paternity test is good to prove who owns the child,” she stated. According to Monalisa Okonkwo, a media practitioner, suspicion is what normally warrants the need for a DNA test and when there is suspicion then there is the need to do a DNA test to clear the doubts. “As a woman that is sure of my integrity, I would subject myself and kids to a DNA test but if one is not sure then the issue of not being open to the test. That’s the only time one rejects the test. So for me I will do the test, she added.  How much does it cost? The CEO/Managing Director, HumGene Limited, Maryam Ajikobi, while speaking with LEADERSHIP, said at HumGene Limited, the cost of DNA paternity testing for alleged father and child is N60,000, and each extra person is N40,000. Ajikobi said the test is conducted by first taking buccal swabs from the client. She said, “The DNA will then be extracted, followed by PCR and analysed using different methods. “Our partner company uses the genetic analysing machine for the analysis. The result normally takes three to five working days to be ready,” she said. She added that the results are very reliable, because the method used is the best and 22 loci region which is the highest is what HumGene use, adding that the result is either 99.99 per cent as the father or 0 per cent. Before conducting the test, the CEO said, “I start by hearing their stories. The counselling depends on a case by case basis. Counselling after the result is done when the man happens not to be the father of the child. This is also done on a case by case basis. Speaking on the most shocking cases in paternity test in Nigeria and abroad, Ajikobi said several researchers peg the non-paternity rate (the percentage of men who think they are the biological father but are not) at 10 per cent worldwide, meaning one in every 10 fathers is not the biological father. “Another interesting statistic is that 29 per cent of the time when a man questioning paternity takes a paternity test, he will find his suspicions confirmed. This means that nearly three of every 10 men who have a paternity doubt are not the biological fathers. “In Nigeria, research shows that it is up to 30 per cent of fathers who are not biological parents of children they have raised but based on the results I have been seeing lately, I will say it might be higher than that,” she added. ‘‘I won’t say Nigerians are more promiscuous and unfaithful because being promiscuous and unfaithful is common in a lot of countries and not Nigeria alone. As to the worst cases of paternity test conducted to the clinic, the CEO said, “The worst case I have seen so far is four children where the father is not biologically related to them. It is very difficult to break such news, but I must do my job. I am getting used to it now.”  Nigerians’ Reaction While paternity test may be on the rise in Nigeria, unless there is cogent reason for paternity test, LEADERSHIP learnt that most Nigerians do not see the need to do it. The chairman, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA), Lagos Chapter, Dr. Saliu Oseni, said DNA is a good test especially in situations of disputes over paternity of children. While it is a test to establish the real owner of children, Oseni said he feels there is no need looking for the owner of a child one has been nursing from childhood, after all, people do adopt children that are not theirs. “The reason why I will not do paternity test is simply because it has resulted in destruction of a lot of homes and sometimes the people that suffer physically and emotionally are the affected children. “I will suggest in the absence of disputes, couples should think twice before proceeding on it. Yes I will if there is a need, but I won’t just do it for the fun of it,” he added. The founder, SMILE With Me Foundation and public health practitioner, Dr Chioma Nwakanma, said she has no problem with paternity test especially when couples think it is necessary to do it. Nwakanma said, “In Genomics, genetic mapping or typing are like checking the genes, and this is deeper than mere DNA paternity or maternity tests (which are mostly done in court or parent tracing cases). Gene mapping can trace your ancestors and also expose your genetic makeup and your medical history. “So you get to see if you have any diseases, especially hereditary in your lineage, what they are and it helps you focus on prevention as much as you can.” She, however, said she would love to do it someday when she can access and afford it, adding that she would love to see if she had a trace of a different culture in her, maybe Israeli or Italian. “Mostly out of curiosity, not because I don’t know who my parents are, but I will just want to know what my ancestry is like. Plain scientific curiosity,” she added. For husband to say to his wife that they should go for paternity test, he must have been having doubt about her fidelity, says the CEO/Managing Director, HumGene Limited, Maryam Ajikobi. Nevertheless, some women, having known that their husbands are not the true biological fathers of their children, will look for all means not to embark on the test, says Ajikobi. She, however, said, “If the woman is sure of herself, she will not be angry when asked to go for paternity test. As for me, I can assure you that my husband does not have any reason for us to go for it. But if there is a cogent reason for us to do it, I will gladly do it, because she has no reason to be afraid.” As for Mr Anthony Okechukwu, who is married with four children, he said he did not believe in DNA as an African, and the reason was because its consequences, whether right or wrong are always disastrous. “Sometimes, what an error could do to a family and sometimes to a generation, is unimaginable. One could say it is error free but you know our Nigerian environment, you never can tell. I do not think I will ever do it, except when it is mandatory due to official documentations. However if I have an option, I will do everything to skip paternity test,” he added. As for Samson Uche who is married with two children, Nigerians are increasingly having the need for DNA test as it is the best way to determine paternity and family lineage where they are in doubt. Unfortunately, he said it is still very costly and most Nigerians can’t afford the test Uche said, “These days we are seeing many cases of wives having children that do not belong to their husbands. The secret is let out finally when they have serious issues and by then the man would have spent so much to father and foster the child. “At the moment, I do not have need for DNA test. My children’s paternity is not in doubt. However, if I run into a situation where I do not accept the paternity of a child linked to me, I will be fast to go for DNA test.” The editor and publisher of Nigeria Health Online (NHO), Sam Eferaro, said DNA is usually required to determine the paternity of a child and other scientific benefits. As for me, Eferaro said, “I don’t think I will ever resort to DNA as I don’t have any iota of doubt concerning my wife and children. No, I won’t need it “Nevertheless, if the embassy requires it for visa purpose, I will have to follow the requirement. No qualms. What I’m trying to say is that there will be no need for me to wake up one day and say I want to do a DNA because I am not sure I am the father of any of children.” Speaking from the Islamic religion point of view, Zaka Khaliq, who is married with three children, said, “There is no any Quranic verse or Hadith that speaks against it, although there are conditions that must be met to demand for DNA. “There must be a strong suspicion from a man that one of his children he thought was his, was not actually his and that the woman bore a child out of wedlock. “He must have sworn four times and curse himself the fifth times if he was telling lies and if his wife disagree with his claim, then, a DNA could be done to support his claim. “However, the outcome of this result must support his claim, or else he would be seen to have wrongly accused the woman, which is a punishable offence in Shariah. However, if the DNA result finds his claim to be true, the child would still have legitimate right as that of his other children, even when they are divorced. “As for me, I will do a paternity test if there is a need for me to do it. “While it’s forbidden by our tradition for any woman to sleep with another man inside her marriage and could even lead to the death of her children, there are simple laws recognised by my tradition to settle cases like this, Mr Anetokhe told LEADERSHIP. “The original father will pay for the cost of upbringing and that will depend on the size of his pocket.” “I think people these days are becoming more careful because science like DNA test is exposing a lot of women who sleep outside with other men but how many know of this, he asked. “I think it is something that has been there for a very long time. Some women could do the unthinkable. I have seen cases like that, one of which a man almost had himself killed having discovered that he had fathered someone else’s child for 30 years,” said the elder Marcus. He said some men who knew they could not have children deliberately gave their wives the freedom to sleep with other men outside and even sometimes the wives noticed that their men could not produce, they went out to have affairs with either their ex or someone very strange. “Our people don’t know what DNA is unless for some who have travelled out to the city and could afford the test. “While it’s forbidden by our tradition for any woman to sleep with another man inside her marriage and could even lead to the death of her children, there are simple laws recognised by my tradition to settle cases like this, Mr Anetokhe told LEADERSHIP. “The original father will pay for the cost of up-bringing and that will depend on the size of his pocket. “I think people are becoming more careful because science like DNA test is exposing a lot of women who sleep outside with other men but how many know this,” he asked.