Further to the approval given by the governing council of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies, NILDS, headed by the president of the Senate, distinguished Senator Ahmad Lawan and the Alternate Chairman, Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila,  the director-general of the institute, Prof. Abubakar O. Sulaiman, has set up a committee to review the documents and establish standards for recruitments and advancement with the career structure on the basis of qualification, merit, knowledge on the job and ability as reflected in work performance. Inaugurating the committee in Abuja, Prof. Sulaiman in a statement by the information office of NILDS announced that the committee, which is constituted by a team of accomplished individuals, who have made remarkable achievements in academics and public service, is chaired by Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, former Chief of Staff to former President of the Senate. Other members include, secretary, National Assembly Service Commission, Mr. Olu Ajakaiye; dean of Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Abuja, Prof. Yusuf Ali Zoaka; former director of administration, National Planning Commission, Mr. Christian Eze Ezeilo; commissioner representing Kogi and Kwara at the Federal Civil Service Commission, Prof Aminu Sheidu; former, director-general, Centre for Management Development, Dr. Kabir Usman and the legal adviser of NILDS, Dr. Shuaibu Danwaka. While urging them to approach the task with a sense of national duty, given the pivotal role that NILDS plays in democratic consolidation in Nigeria, the director-general reiterated that the outcome of the assignment is expected to produce a scheme of service and administrative manual that are in line with international best practices and also at par with other sister institutions in Nigeria. In his response, chairman of the committee, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed said  scheme of service is of vital importance in the management of human resource functions in any organisation, adding that his committee will approach the assignment with all the seriousness it deserves. The committee is expected to submit its report in two weeks.