The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC) has urged the federal government to jettison any plan to review upwardly the remuneration of political office holders in the country. The Congress in a statement by its president, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, said the plan by the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission to review the remuneration of political office holders at a time the country is grappling with a lot of economic issues is insensitive. He described the report as “a conspiracy that must not be allowed to stand because of the dire consequences it will further have on the economy, people and our collective image.” According to him, such review will encourage the do-or-die attitude of some politicians. He said, “Does it mean the Federal Government increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) to raise money to pay the politicians? Some countries in Africa now have a unicameral legislature because their former system was eating deep into the national treasury. Why can’t we think along that line, after all, we have a National Assembly that you could hardly see all the members seated at every session. It is the same thing at the state level, yet their absence has never disturbed any session. Imagine a Councilors with O’Level result earns higher than a University Professors? It is only in Nigeria that ex-governors who served two terms will retire to the senate yet earn pension from the state. It is only in Nigeria that ex-governors that are jailed for corruption collect salaries and other allowances. This is preposterous and it makes mockery of our system. “Report had it that if the Federal Government succeeds in borrowing the $29. 9b it applied for our total debt profile would have risen to about $84b. Even the World Bank has warned about the danger and consequences of our debt yet it appears no one cares if the country goes further down in shame. The question is, why tax or borrow just to pay politicians and service cronies when over 21 percent of our able bodied youths are unemployed? We are worried that the insecurity situation arising from unemployment does not bother them? “We are demanding that the cost of governance be drastically reduced. We do not need 496 lawmakers. Governors do not need over 500 aides. It is too expensive to maintain. The salaries and allowances of these public office holders in Nigeria is part of the cause of the economic hardship in Nigeria. Half of these political officials’ salaries, if put into proper use, could give hundred thousands of unemployed youths useful employment.