Known for its solutions in fintech and providing financial services that support the lifestyle of its customers, analysts have said that ALAT is supporting salary earners with instant loans. ALAT’s salary-based loan is a low-interest loan available to the bank’s existing as well as new salary earning customers who may or may not have their salary account domiciled with Wema Bank. Riding on its reputation of offering seamless financial services, the bank said that ALAT customers will be able to access the salary-based loan without any form of paperwork, from the comfort of their ALAT app or the ALAT web page without any collateral. ‘‘The bank, salary earners will be able to receive a minimum of N50,000 and up to N4 million within hours and will have between three to 24 months to pay back with only two per cent interest rate per month on a reducing balance basis,’’said the bank. According to the bank’s brand and marketing communications manager, Mrs. Funmilayo Falola, explained that the salary-based loan is an initiative of the bank to avail salary earners emergency funds to meet needs that otherwise cannot wait for the next payday or that require additional funding. Falola stated that the profiled salary-earners that can profit from the loan range from Oil and Gas and Financial industry workers, Fintechs, Insurance and FMCG staff. She further confirmed that the process of getting the salary-based loan is entirely online – on the ALAT app or web page – and begins with downloading the app from android or IOS apps store for new customers and a simple login with a click on the ‘Loan’ icon for ALAT registered customers on the ALAT app or web page. To ensure that customers have a hitch-free registration process, ALAT app has been updated to include a video run-through of the process of registration at the sign-up page. Customers can also get a simple explainer of each step of the registration process by clicking on the ‘i’ icon on each page on the app. Also, for customers to have financial confidence and freedom, ALAT has introduced a zero balance. This means that customers can withdraw their money to the last kobo and there will be no charges should any customer maintain a zero balance on their account.