Nollywood actress, Hauwau Allahbura, tells JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH in this interview about her journey to stardom, dreams and other issues affecting the industry. As one of the few actors from the North, did you encounter any challenge? I’m from the North, yes. I have honestly not had the opportunity to play a Northern role or star in a Northern film. My character names have varied from South to West: Nkem, Maro, Ayo etc. I’ll be super glad to play a Northern Islamic name and I’m happy to say something is in the works. For challenges, I’ll say no. It’s funny how I don’t see challenges. I see them as hard times that persistent work can help overcome. Recently, a popular actor said actors are not well paid, while movie producers smile to the bank after grossing huge amount at the box office. As an actress, would you say he was speaking for you? I’ll speak in support of both actors and producers. I own a film company called Cut24 Productions. We have produced films like ‘Gidi Blues’, ‘The Eve’ and recently ‘Code Wilo’. We have smiled to the bank but paid actors fairly. I’m not sure some producers are unfair but if they are, I believe it’s the job of an actor to insist on a fee or set some standards. I also believe if you are extremely passionate about a film script as an actor, you can invest your talent in such projects and share in the income of the film. In defense of producers that struggle to break even, this does not apply to them. I’ll also add that if you pay an agreed fee for a talent and smile extraordinarily to the bank, it would be great to give a little something to these talents that made the dream possible. To be honest, this conversation can go on and on because I see it from both sides and understand where both parties are coming from. The issue of molestation by filmmakers and even colleagues just for movie roles is becoming a cancer in the industry. Have you ever been molested as an actress in the industry before? I have said it over and over again. I have never been molested by any filmmaker or actor. I honestly can’t think or even imagine how that works. I believe it because many people have said it but I have never actually seen that. Nollywood, I think, has moved past that phase. Film makers want to make timeless works of art and use faces that fit their dream. I can’t really speak on this issue as I don’t have any experience with it. What does fashion and style mean to you? Fashion means comfort to me. I definitely know I’m not crazy about fashion but I know looking good is good business and I ensure I look and appear good. I feel good too (smiles). Tell us a little about your background. I am from kanam local government of Plateau state. My village is Dengi to be precise. I started off as a tv presenter for village square tv now called tribe tv. I got a scholarship and did a few auditions and found myself acting. My first Big role was Gidi Blues, a film by Femi Odugbemi. Who are your mentors in the industry? Genevieve is my biggest mentor in the film industry. I really admire how she effortlessly allows her work speak for her. Over 2 decades in the industry and she is still making an impact. I really admire her. I love Kemi Adetigba and Tope Oshin. These women are making such great impact in our film industry! I admire them so much. Successes of Films like King of Boys, Upnorth and Sugar makes me feel there’s hope with so much certainty. What makes you happy and sweeps you off your feet? Success and achievements makes me happy. Once I set a goal and achieve it, I automatically become the happiest person on earth. How do you unwind? I travel a lot. That’s how I unwind. I work super hard and smart that I definitely need to travel somewhere, preferably an island to unwind and be happy. I also like to buy myself a few gifts lol! This is a new development. What genre of music do you listen to and why? I love female musicians and I listen to a lot of Tiwa Savage, Asa, Simi, among others. I think I’m speechless when it comes to music. If it is a great sound, I’m in. Any plans to go into directing or producing movies ? I own a film company and I have produced over 10 films already; big cinema films and over seven commissioned films that are straight to Tv. For directing, it is not my passion but I do not know what the future has to offer. Do you think Nollywood is where it is ought to be with its rating? I absolutely think we’ve done a pretty amazing job! We are number three in the world in terms of rating and number two in terms of numbers! That is pretty amazing and I’m excited for the future. Where do you see yourself in the next five years? I see myself becoming one of the biggest film gurus out of Africa with a multi-billion dollar company.