The federal government said it has put modalities in place to begin the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Finance Fund (CVFF), noting that the contribution has so far reached N72 billion ($200 million). Speaking after a meeting over the disbursement of the CVFF which was conveyed yesterday in Lagos by the Federal Ministry of Transportation in collaboration with Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency NIMASA, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi disclosed that every penny disbursed to shipowners will be accounted for by the lending institutions. Amaechi explained that the development was part of the guidelines put in place for the disbursement of the CVFF. Speaking to maritime journalists Amaechi said, “We have agreed to form a committee that will draw up guidelines for the disbursement of the CVFF. It is the guidelines that will be drawn up that will be taken to the National Assembly for ratification.” According to him, the committee is made up of some stakeholders headed by the director-general of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside and they will decide if the interest rate that will be attached to the CVFF will be single digit or not. He said: “Essential elements in the expected guidelines is that the responsibility of monitoring the funds will be transferred to the lending institutions, that is, the commercial banks. Nobody will just walk away with the funds. Every shipowner that gets a chunk of the CVFF will be held accountable by the lending institutions.’’ The minister also said that the commercial banks will first and foremost, give criteria to access the funds. So, any shipowner that does not meet up with the banks’ guidelines will not benefit. In this case, the risk will be borne by the lending institutions. According to him, if people are allowed to take the money without a proper framework to service their loans, then the government won’t achieve its aim of developing the maritime economy. “People must borrow and return money borrowed so that others can benefit from the CVFF,” said Amaechi. The CVFF is derived from the two per cent of the revenue of the shipowners which has been in operation since 2003 and has remained undisbursed till date. Earlier in his presentation at the meeting, Dr. Peterside said, “The CVFF is currently about $200 million and the guidelines will determine the manner of disbursement.” He said the committee set up will come up with a draft guideline which the Minister will study and then pass on to the National Assembly for ratification. “It is after this that we will go to the next stage where we will use the commercial banks to disburse the funds,” Peterside added. President Muhammadu Buhari had last year approved the disbursement of the CVFF funds with effect from the first quarter of 2020. Before now, the Federal Ministry of Transport which supervises the agency had cited fears of insincerity on the side of shipowners for not disbursing the fund. According to the Act which established the CVFF, the Minister of Transportation is empowered to establish guidelines for the disbursement of the fund to eligible operators. After approval from the National Assembly, the fund can then be disbursed. The Act also stipulates that selected applicants will send in their companies’ applications for the financing of the procurement of ships to the NIMASA who will in turn send the applications to the banks warehousing the fund. The banks are required to carry out a credit risk analysis on the projects of the applicants and if the applicants are creditworthy, the banks will make recommendations to NIMASA that the transactions are worth funding. NIMASA will then forward the recommendations to the minister to review, approve and send for disbursement.