BUA Cement Plc yesterday listed a total value of N1.18 trillion shares on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) to emerge the third largest quoted company on the bourse. NSE admitted 33.864 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each of BUA Cement at N35 per share on its daily official list, thereby adding N1.18 trillion to the capitalisation of the exchange. Speaking on the listing, the chief executive officer of NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema said it is exciting for the exchange to record such a major listing  at the beginning of the year, noting that it is another opportunity  for investors to have access to a company with good track record. According to him, the company has plans to move to the Premium Board of the NSE in very short period of time. Also, the managing director/CEO of BUA Cement Plc, Yusuf Binji said it was a major fulfillment for the group to have its shares listed after a merger of two companies that control significant markets in Southern and Northern parts of the country. According to Binji, the listing of BUA Cement followed the merger of Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) and Obu Cement Company Limited. He explained that while CCNN was the listed company before now, its merger with Obu Cement, both of members of the BUA Group, gave birth to BUA Cement Plc, an enlarged firm, with a total installed capacity of 8.0 metric tonnes per annum (mtpa). He said with the listing, the shareholders should expect better returns because the company will be one of the top best dividend paying company, adding that its installed capacity would be increased to 11 mtpa. Binji said in addition to meeting the demand from customers in its core regions in the country, the enlarged company would be positioned to distribute its products in new geographical markets, creating the potential for additional shareholder value creation. “The merger of the two companies to become BUA Cement would provide opportunities for significant cost savings and improved operational efficiencies by streamlining operations and optimising the use of combined resources. It has also provided a platform where the enlarged company benefits from economies of scale in procurement, distribution and manufacturing of the products offered to our customers. We expect the benefits accruing from greater economies of scale to accrue to many stakeholders,” he said. It will be recalled that in 2019, in its bid to deepen the Nigerian capital market and enhance the growth of the cement industry, BUA Group, consolidated its cement business comprising the publicly listed 2million Mtpa Cement Company of Northern Nigeria Plc (CCNN) and six million mtpa Obu Cement Company Plc. Founder & executive chairman of BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu, recently said that this consolidation marks the culmination of the first phase of the BUA mid-term strategic plan for its cement businesses, which currently include four cement plants spread across Obu Cement Company and the Cement Company of Northern Nigeria. “A new $450 million Sokoto Kalambaina II Plant is scheduled to come on stream in the second half of 2020 alongside another 48 MW power plant to complement the existing assets and take advantage of a growing cement market in Northern Nigeria and the West African region. “This consolidation will cement BUA’s position as the second-largest cement producer in Nigeria whilst also positioning it to take advantage of the combined synergies to effectively serve Northern and Southern Nigeria based on the strategic locations of these plants, as well as a sizeable export market.”