Recently, billionaire businessman, politician and philanthropist, Prince Ned Nwoko, took his malaria eradication in Africa project to Antarctica in a bid to address the scourge in Africa. In this interview with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the founder and president of Prince Ned Nwoko Foundation (PNNF), a humanitarian group, explains why he is so passionate about getting rid of the deadly disease from the African continent as well as why he embarked on a voyage of discovery to that continent at the utmost and darkest part of the earth. Of all the deadly diseases that threatens human existence, your Foundation singled out malaria for eradication. Why malaria? Why not malaria? Malaria is the biggest killer in Africa. According to the United Nations statistics of 2015, almost 500,000 people died of malaria in Africa, and out of that, 80 per cent of them are from Nigeria which is over 400,000 annually. So, when you put together all the other deaths from cancer, AIDS, Hepatitis, etc, all put together, including old age you will not get this figure from malaria alone. So, it is a disaster that has not been properly addressed by anybody. Malaria is the biggest cause of absenteeism from work; we lose many man hours. I am sure you guys know how many times you are unable to go to work because you had malaria. Malaria has a long time effect; sickle cell problems are all traced back to malaria. Sickle cell is only a problem that only blacks suffer. If you go to the UK, they will tell you malaria is a black man’s problem. So, it is our problem that has not been addressed. For me, it is a natural focus because I just felt that I could help; I could do something about it starting with the quest for vaccine. Before I made my intention Public I set up a small committee to look at what is happening medically and the vaccines that are on trial. Is there any vaccine that has been used but not effective? Because I feel malaria is a disaster that has to be addressed, I came up with some funds available for research purposes through five universities across Africa with the clear mandate that they should go and discover vaccines. From my interaction with some Professors, it was clear that they could have researched on it but there was no funding. That is why I said for each university I’m making available the sum of $150,000 and I support that if they judiciously utilize the money they should come up with some solutions, whether as individual universities or in collaboration with others. They can collaborate as well but I’m also willing to support any on-going research. We are still trying to get some data from various universities across Africa with a view to ensuring that if there are other universities that are already doing some researches we can support them depending on what stage they are.  You recently spoke of presenting a bill to the National Assembly for legislation for a national fumigation day. At what stage are you regarding the bill? Yes, the whole idea of malaria eradication for me has a two pronged approach – the short term and the long term approach. The long term approach is the one I just told you about; the research which we hope can be done within three years since a normal PhD period takes three years. We are hoping that this too could be undertaken within that period. The short term approach is the fumigation and sanitation of Nigeria and other countries in Africa. We know that this will be done; it is just a matter of time. In fumigating Nigeria you might think the country is very big but having discussed with one or two companies in Canada that have the appropriate technology, including a low flying and slow flying planes that can do this, we know this will be done and it will be done completely. That is not even a problem. The problem is all about the research; the problem is fumigating our homes and cleaning up the environment. We must clean up the environment, gutters, stagnant waters and refuse. We must get into recycling and disposal of rubbish in Nigeria. In fact, this is time for Nigeria to come of age in terms of sanitation. We must get to a point where foreigners can come into Nigeria and say this country is clean. When you go to other countries everywhere is clean. Not only a national fumigation day; government can make a pronouncement. This actually can be done by the federal government which can dedicate a week for the fumigation of homes because the homes must be fumigated concurrently. Everybody must do it; if they say next week or from the 7th of February to 14th of February, those days must be utilize by everybody to fumigate their homes. If you don’t do that you are wasting our time because if I’m fumigating my house today and my neighbour doesn’t fumigate his, mosquitoes will move to my house, and then after four days if he fumigates his own the mosquitoes will move back to my own house. So, that solution is not long-lasting. We are looking for long-lasting permanent solutions so that the government would make the necessary announcement at the right time and choose a date that everybody must fumigate their homes, but at the same time as we are doing that the area of fumigation will also be done at the same time.  How much has your foundation earmarked for this project? Well, I cannot tell you that now because apart from the $750,000 for the research, we will be spending other monies. So, we are doing whatever that needs to be done and at some point, I’m sure that others will come in and see me but they must see what we are doing first. Even you, I’m sure you suffer from malaria now and then; so even at some point when you know that we have mobilised researchers in various universities and that we have taken steps in the area fumigation, to support wouldn’t be a problem for you because this is a project for humanity. I’m not doing it for any personal gain.  But the Ned Nwoko malaria eradication programme is not just a Nigerian thing alone. It has the entire African continent as its catchment area. Do you think funding an African project of this nature is possible? We are doing it across Africa. Only few countries are free, according to UN statistics. I don’t believe that anything is impossible in my life. When there is need for something like this, the solution will be there.  You talked about collaboration with foreign aids and the government. Are you making any headway in this regard? We are not looking at those ones for now. We are doing whatever we can on our own before governments can come in, even local and state governments will come in because we are doing this for everybody. But they must see that this is a workable solution.  You were in Antarctica recently in respect of the malaria eradication programme. What are the takeaways from that country? Coming back from Antarctica on its own is a success because some people have gone there and never come back. If you know the difficulties in traversing Antarctica you will know that me coming back alive is an achievement. Before we went there they told us about people who died previous years but I still felt that I should go; first, to create awareness of this scourge and secondly, to meet some of the scientists, which I did. Two particular scientists asked me why Nigeria not in Antarctica. Why don’t we have a science research base like other countries do? There are twelve countries that have research bases there: America, Britain, Germany, India, South Africa, among others. Why not Nigeria? We are lagging behind in so many ways. We are not doing research in virtually everything. Those people are there and are thinking about tomorrow. They have led us in so many ways, but you know you cannot be there without understanding things. When you are there you think about solutions as one of them said to me. Have you ever seen medicines kept in hot places? Medicines are kept in cold places not in hot places. There are things to take away from Antarctica but for me, I went there and hoisted Nigerian flag. It is now left for Nigerian government to take steps to rectify the Antarctica treaty through the National Assembly. They must do that so that Nigeria can begin to send our scientists to that very crucial part of the earth. Antarctica is in space; it is at the end of the world – the bottom of the world. You know we can afford to have a permanent research base there where our scientists will go and come back, funded by the government. When you see the South Africans, the Germans and the Indians you feel as if we are not part of the world. Why not? We have scientists and people who are credible, who want to research but no support from the government and there are no private citizens there. The only private citizens are the ones that went like us. There are no shops, no airport, no police, no immigration, and no trees. You won’t find one tree in Antarctica. Antarctica is bigger than Africa or America and Mexico put together and yet you see scientists, geologists, medical experts are there in numbers. The total number of population of Antarctica is about 5000 and in summer there is no darkness. There is 24-hour light and they are there doing their researches. So, we as a country need to wake up; it is an opportunity. At some point in time there was a scramble for Africa and now we are sleeping.  You once expressed concern over the lackadaisical attitude of African leaders towards the malaria scourge and your worry was that they know fully well that it is an African thing, yet they are not doing anything. To what extent are you holding discussions with them on this? The whites are not in a hurry to look for vaccines for us because they already have pharmaceutical firms that are producing medicines and they are making money out of it. In fact, if we discover a malaria vaccine now it would be bad news for them. The medicines they sell to us are bad. You know that long term use of these medicines is not good for our body organs; it damages our kidneys, brains and liver, not to talk of the cost of treating malaria. Our leaders have their problem. Their problem is that they play politics with everything. People are looking at how to amass wealth without thinking about humanity. When you go abroad in places like the Uk and America, their government is about the people: how to utilize available resources for the benefits of the people full stop. That is what governance is all about but in Nigeria and other African countries, it is how to amass wealth for your personal gains and the people around you. That is why we kill ourselves to get into offices but we have a new set of leadership that I believe will key into this project and support it, especially with the support that we will get from WHO and other international agencies.  Beyond this, I know your organization is into other philanthropic activities, including the proposed sport university which is to engage the youths. What is your driving force? My driving force is humanity. How many years do we have to live on earth without helping others? When you help people you feel happy that you are doing something for the masses. I am masses oriented; that is my nature. You don’t have to be a government or in government to be able to do things that will affect humanity. I am always thinking outside the box. Why sport university for instance? I just feel that we have so many raw talents in Nigeria and I consider my background having spent years in UK studying and working. So, I am inspired by my training and background there. When I compare what goes on in the Uk and America with Nigeria I feel sad that there are many things that could be done to improve the lives of our people. For me, it is education. Yes, we are doing all that but sports in particular. You see how many Nigerian lads are talented. Coming from Delta, a state for sports men and women, we excel in sports at any given time. So, I know about the raw talent, I know them individually but most of them don’t go beyond national the level because when they get to compete with others outside they get beaten badly. Only very few excel. The few who excelled didn’t do so because they were supported by government, but an American kid who shows sign of excelling in sports is spotted by government. They make available everything for him; even a teacher follows him or her everywhere to teach them. So I just felt that having a sports university provides a dual purpose for young kids’ academics and physical education. If you want to study medicine or law or chemistry it does not stop you from playing football, it does not stop you from boxing, and it does not stop you from swimming or whatever else. So, the target is Olympics and the courses we are going to do are those that will help our young ones to compete in Olympics. When people have education they have courage. It is one thing to have skills but without education you feel intimidated by others.  Distinguished, in the past we have heard of such eradication programmes in the country and at the end of the day these programmes did not make any difference. What makes you think yours will succeed? They were looking for how to cure malaria, like those who were providing nets but you know those are short term and temporary measures. If you have net in your room are you not going to sit outside? Mosquitoes will still bite you or are you going to cover yourself with outside too? That is not the kind of solution I am talking about; we want a permanent solution through vaccination. Nobody has ever done this that I know like talking about fumigation of the entire country or popping up sanitation as an issue. Those who provided nets, were they talking about fumigation or even sanitation? The cleaning of gutters and the street and general hygiene, how do we imbibe this standard of living? We must have a mindset change about our lifestyles. It is a challenge for every one of us. We cannot just live in very dirty environment and expect very healthy living; it is not possible. 