At exactly 7:27 pm yesterday, Senator Hope Uzodinma, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the March 9, 2019 governorship poll was sworn in as the new governor of Imo State. Clad in his signature white attire and red cap, Uzodinma arrived at the Cenotaph Grounds, venue of the ceremony at 6:45 pm, where he was received by a mammoth crowd with a thunderous ovation. His inauguration was at the instance of Supreme Court, which in its judgement on Tuesday, sacked the former occupant of the office, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, and ordered the immediate swearing-in of Uzodinma as the duly elected governor of the state. The oath taking was first administered on the deputy governor, Prof. Placid Njoku, by the chief judge of Imo State, Justice Pascal Nnadi, at 7:15pm. Thereafter, Justice Nnadi swore in Uzodinma as the crowd cheered. The event was attended by APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, immediate past governor of the state, Senator Rochas Okorocha, the minister of state for Education, Chief Emeka Nwajuba, the acting state chairman of the party, Chief Marcellinus Nlemigbo, and House of Representatives’ members elected on the APC platform. Uzodinma’s swearing-in was delayed by the late collection of the certificate of return from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) which had insisted on receiving the judgment of the Supreme Court. Hundreds of his supporters, wearing different uniforms, traditional rulers, federal and state lawmakers, associations, and groups, endured the delay as they waited till he arrived at the venue for the ceremony proper. The certificate of return was presented to Uzodinma by INEC national commissioner,  May Agbamuche-Mbu in the presence of two other national commissioners of the commission, Abubakar Nahuche and Dr Mustafa Lecky at the electoral body’s headquarters in Abuja. The presentation of the certificate of return to him came barely 24 hours after the Supreme Court nullified the election of Ihedioha and declared Uzodinma as the elected governor of the state. A seven-man panel led by the chief justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad, had unanimously declared Uzodinma as the winner of the governorship election. Uzodinma had contended that he scored the highest number of votes in the election and insisted that INEC returned Ihedioha in error. Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, who delivered the judgment, declared that the votes due to Uzodinma were unlawfully excluded from the 318 polling units and should be added to his votes. The Supreme Court also considered the submission of a principal witness who was on a subpoena to present results and held that the lower court was wrong in its ruling. Justice Kekere-Ekun ruled that Uzodinma was validly elected as the governor and asked that the certificate of return issued to Ihedioha be withdrawn immediately. Supreme Court Verdict Unfair – Ihedioha In his first formal comment after the Supreme Court ousted him from office, Ihedioha yesterday described the judgment as “unfair and unjust.” He said that the verdict did not reflect the voting that took place during the elections. Ihedioha, in a statement he personally signed, said: ”I think it is unfair, unjust and does not reflect the voting that took place during the elections. It also didn’t take care of the sensibilities of the people of Imo State. But as true democrats, Engr Gerald Irona and I have no option but to respect the outcome of that judgement.” According to him, in the last seven months, his team ”sought to elevate merit, unity of purpose, honesty, transparency and an inclusive approach to governance, as the hallmarks of our administration. We sought to restore once again, the pride and dignity of Imo people. We worked very hard to re-engineered the Imo renaissance,” adding that ”God knows why he has allowed this current state of affairs.” He said that alongside his deputy would always cherish the tremendous goodwill and support Imo people gave his administration as he grappled with setting a new order to rebuild a state that was devastated by bad governance. Ihedioha, a former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, lamented that the mandate given to them had been ”truncated by the Supreme Court, in contravention of the will of the people.” ”No doubt, the Supreme Court verdict came to us as a rude shock and surprise considering the facts on ground, legal precedence and clear verdict of Imo people on March 9, 2019, that returned me as governor with the highest valid votes of 273,404,” he said. Ihedioha said that ”we have put machinery in motion to hand the reins of office over to the APC candidate as the next governor of Imo State. This will be coordinated by the secretary to the state government (SSG). I, therefore, direct all members of Imo State expanded executive council, and all political appointees to write their handing over notes and to return all government properties in their custody, forthwith.” He, however, warned all former appointees under his cabinet to immediately hand all government properties in their custody over to senior officials. The former governor thanked Imo people for the massive support they enjoyed within seven months, saying under his watch, ”Imo State was looking good again. We were declared the least corrupt state in the country, the fastest state growing economy in Nigeria and the most improved, in terms of the deployment of Information Technology in service delivery. Our infrastructure was significantly coming to life, civil servants and pensioners were now being paid as and when due and optimism returned to Imo State. It is on record that we were acclaimed as the most sports and diaspora-friendly state. Most importantly, we returned life and activities to our local governments.” Ihedioha appealed to Imo people to remain calm and shun ”any action that is capable of resulting in a breach of the peace. We can always have different parties, but we would have only one Imo State.”