Men of the Ogun state police command has arrested a 40-years old man identified as Olanrewaju Bamidele for clubbing his wife to death over domestic disagreement. Olanrewaju, a carwash attendant at Ofada town in the Obafemi – Owode Local Government area of the state, was said to have wedged a big stick on the head of his wife, Adenike which allegedly sent the mother of four to a state of comma. Still fuming in anger, the suspect thereafter, went ahead and stabbed his wife with a screw driver on the head which eventually resulted in her death. Sensing danger, Olanrewaju attempted burying his wife secretly when his children, who saw him digging a grave by the side of their house, raised an alarm which alerted neighbours that rushed to the scene and held him down before the arrival of the police. Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident said Olanrewaju was arrested following a report lodged at Ofada police post by the victim’s 15-years old son, Ayomide Olanrewaju who claimed that his father had beaten his mother to death after they both had misunderstanding. “He stated further that his father used a big stick to beat the victim to comma”. “On the strength of the report, the Officer in-charge Ofada Police post, DSP Akinfolahan Oluseye led his men to the scene at Bisodun village via Ofada where the suspect who has been held down by the people of the Community was handed over to the police and he was immediately take Owode-Egba divisional headquarters where he is still being interrogated”. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect was found of beating his wife from time to time, but this time around, he beat the woman to death”. Oyeyemi further stated that corpse of the victim has been deposited at the morgue of Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu for autopsy, while the screw driver and the stick which the suspect used to kill the victim have also been recovered. Oyeyemi also said that the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson has ordered that the matter be immediate transferred to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for further investigation and prosecution.