Card readers’ failure, alleged cases of vote buying, apathy have marred the rerun elections held in 11 states yesterday. In Bauchi, some wards during the Bauchi rerun elections for Gamawa and Zaki federal constituencies vote buying and card reader malfunction. Residents who spoke to Leadership Sunday in Gamawa said instances of vote buying were recorded at Unguwan Baba unit and Gareji polling units. A resident, who pledges anonymity told this medium that “about seven persons were arrested by the police because of vote buying.” Our correspondent reports that the incidences of vote buying and card readers malfunctions had impacted voting in some wards. An agent of the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Hamza Abubakar Isah, alleged that there were incidences of vote buying at Central Primary School, Gamawa. He alleged that most of the voters were offered N5000 inducement by some political parties in exchange for votes. He said he was beaten up by PDP members for reporting to ICPC the cases of vote buying. Meanwhile, the Independent National Electoral Commission  (INEC), has described the re-run election for Gamawa and Zaki federal constituencies so far as peaceful. Resident electoral commissioner in charge of Bauchi headquarters of the commission, Ibrahim Abdullahi, who stated this while addressing journalists on the exercise said there was a significant improvement compared to 2019. On allegations of vote buying, the REC said he was yet to receive any report on that. He said that he was impressed by the level of voter turnout in many of the polling units in the constituency.  Voter Apathy Trail Imo Rerun Polls Low turn-out of voters has trailed the rerun polls held on Saturday in Imo State. The court had ordered the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission  (INEC) to conduct a rerun for Okigwe/Onuimo/Isiala Mbano federal constituency and supplementary election in 18 polling wards in Orlu/Orsu/Oru East federal constituency and 12 polling  units in Njaba  constituency. Hon Obinna Onwubariri’s election into the house of representatives had been nullified, while the court ordered that election should hold in some earlier cancelled units of his colleague, Hon Jerry Alagboso. The rerun election is between Mr Obinna Onwubualiri , and Princess Mariam Onuoha for Okigwe/Onuimo/Isiala Mbano federal constituency. However many voters stayed away from the exercise, even as it was peaceful and had no incidents of electoral violence and ballot paper snatching. Accreditation and voting commenced from 8:30 a.m and 9: 20a.m in most pooling units, while security operatives flooded everywhere. Even as the elections were generally peaceful. At Central School , Umunachi, ward 003, Central School, Isiau Ozuama, Isiebu ward 002 and Umuneke/Anara polling unit 013 all witnessed voter apathy, as well as at Anara in the Isiala Mbano local government area. A presiding officer in Umuneke/ Anara unit said only about 30 voters came out as against the over 1000 registered voters at after 12 p.m. Imo State gubernatorial candidate for All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, told newsmen after voting that he was satisfied with the peaceful conduct. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for the Okigwe North rerun, Hon Obinna Onwubuariri, expressed optimism that he would be re-elected. However, as at collation time, the candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Miriam Onuoha, was leading, while more were still been collated. APC in early lead as voters apathy mar  rerun election in Okigwe North Though there were no records of electoral violence, ballot paper snatching, however, most of the electorate stayed away from the voting centers. Most of the polling centres our correspondent visited were empty. This is even as most of the people who spoke to our correspondent on the streets said that their votes might not count and as such would not waste their time voting for anybody. Speaking after casting his vote, Senator Ifeanyi Araraume, stressed that he was satisfied with the way the exercise was going. The politician said that there was an alliance to deliver the All Progressives Congress(APC) candidate, Miriam Onuoha. This is even as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Obinna Onwubuariri, expressed optimism that he would be re-elected. He said , “I was elected into the house of representatives in 2015 and was re-elected in 2019, but the court annulled my re-election owing to forces fighting against me. But I will win this election because we have the grassroots. “ Meanwhile, APC has won at two polling centres. At booth 008 at Anara in the Isiala Mbano local government Area, APC scored 78 votes, while PDP scored 8 votes. At polling centre 014 at Anara in the Isiala Mbano local government area, Social Democratic Party (SDP) scored 14 votes, APC got 106 votes, PDP 9, while All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA)garnered 10 votes. Voting, sorting and counting of votes were still on going across the federal constituency.  Tension In C/River As Gunmen Hijack Elections Materials, Abduct One Inec Staff There was palpable tension in Cross River State on Saturday following abduction of INEC staff and hijack of election materials by unknown gunmen in Affanya community of Abi local government area  just to disrupt election process to vote for  who to represent the people of Abi/Yakurr federal constituency at the national assembly. The rerun elections came up following an  appeal court ruling in September 2019, that the elections which ushered Dr. Alex Egbona , candidate for the APC  to represent the Abi/ Yakurr people of Cross River at the national assembly be invalidated and urged   INEC to  reschedule a re- run in eight polling units of  Afayna/Igoni-Igoni ward in Abi local government area of the state. Speaking with news men  Saturday on the issue at  INEC office  in Abi local government area of the state  Independent Electoral Commission , federal commissioner for south- south zone, Dr. Mohammed Lecky, said he was shocked that people can still resort to the use of very barbaric and savage ways to truncate the electoral process simply because of fear that they may lose out. Lecky, who spoke  in company of the Cross River State  resident electoral commissioner, Dr. Alalibo Johnson, and the administrative secretary of INEC in the state, Mrs. Irene Ngozi Oghuma, questioned why people could become so desperate to the extent of launching attack  in the middle of the river without minding if the boat would capsize with the passengers in the boat. He said that  the incident occurred in the middle of the river leading to the community. “Gunmen accosted the electoral officials with materials and went away with all the voting materials along with the SPO (state presiding officer). “Well security men that accompanied the materials and men of election duties decided to avoid casualty by not engaging the unknown armed men in the middle of the river. “However,  I thank God that all the NYSC members on duty and other election duty officials have returned safely to office except the SPO, whose phone is ringing but he is not picking.” In his remarks one Mr. Charles Egbuluke, who claimed to be an eye witness stated that the attacker launched their dragnet at about  9:00am while the INEC officials   were trying to find their way  to election duty at Affafanya community. Ebuluke, who according to him, is  a fisherman by profession stated that the incident occurred  along Agikpo- Igonigonu river axis in the local government area.  PDP Accuses Akpabio’s Cousin Of Hijacking Election Materials The People’s Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom has raised the alarm that election materials for six units in Akpautong in Essien Udim were hijacked by Mr.  Ibanga Akpabio,  a cousin of the Niger Delta Affairs minister,  Senator Godswill Akpabio. In a press release signed by the state PDP publicity secretary, Comrade Iniobong Ememobong,  the party accused Senator Akpabio of spearheading mayhem in the rerun election in Essien Udim just to truncate the exercise. According to the PDP, Akpabio was responsible for the massive deployment of violence and electoral malpractices at his polling unit, adding that every effort by the minister has been done to frustrate the monitoring of the election by journalists and observers. “We had alerted the world that the phoney withdrawal or boycott of the election by the APC candidates led by the disgraced and rejected former governor and senator, Godswill Akpabio, was a ploy to unleash mayhem on Essien Udim  people and truncate the electoral process, without being held accountable for their misdeeds,” the party said.  Akpabio Dissociates Self From Rerun In Essien Udim Niger Delta Affairs Minister,  Senator Godswill Akpabio, has dissociated himself from any happenings at the rerun election in Essien Udim local government area. Akpabio said his decision and that of his party,  the All Progressives Congress(APC) to stay away from the supplementary election was sacrosanct,  and therefore should not be linked to the exercise in any way. The minister was responding to insinuations in the social media linking him to pockets of violence and irregularities at the rerun in his area. A statement issued to journalists by his chief press secretary,  Anietie Ekong,  said,  “The news flying about linking Senator Godswill Akpabio to any rerun election in Essien Udim  local government area is fake.”  Rerun: PDP In Early Lead As Collation, Counting Begins In Sokoto The rerun elections in Sokoto State started almost simultaneously in both Sokoto North and Sokoto South with large turnout of voters. The rerun elections are for two state assemblies, Sokoto North and Binji, while that of Isa/Sabon Birni and that of Sokoto North, Sokoto South is for the house of representatives. Going round the metropolis, Leadership Sunday observed that, the conduct of the election which started in good time was very peaceful except for some few polling units where incidences of fisticuffs were witnessed. Though, the quick intervention of the security agencies saved the day hence the return of normalcy and voting continues almost immediately in such affected polling units. Confirming the probability or otherwise of declaring results on Saturday night, the state INEC public relations officer, Malam Muhammad Musa, said collation has started, adding however that, declaration of results might take late into the night or Sunday morning. According to him, collation and counting has begun at the RI levels, after which it would get to the local government level before constituency and declaration. “Declaration of result might be tonight or tomorrow in the morning,” he simply said. While admitting that the election was largely rated hitch free, Musa, the INEC spokesperson appreciated the level of political maturity exhibited by the electorates in not only turning out in large numbers but also being orderly. Collaborating the position of the INEC spokesperson, Honourable Ahmed Aliyu, the governorship candidate of the APC, who the supreme court recently dismissed his appeal against the declaration of Governor Tambuwal  expressed satisfaction with the turnout of voters. Speaking at Magajin Rafi Primary School where he cast his vote, Ahmed Aliyu said, the turnout of women, security agencies and preparations by INEC were very commendable. A check by Leadership Sunday in most of the polling units visited  showed that counting began at about 3pm and some even before then, it was however noticed that, for the majority of the polling units visited in Sokoto South, candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) seem to be in  early lead and should that continue in the remaining polling units, then, the candidate of the PDP might be on his way to coast home to victory.