The minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi said 20 new coaches are expected to arrive Nigeria for the Lagos to Ibadan rail services. The minister, who stated this on a television channel yesterday’s night, said the coaches, which may have reached Nigeria port by now, will be cleared and ready for use this week. The minister also stated that between now and May, 2020, President Muhammadu Buhari will officially flag-off the Lagos to Ibadan rail services. He however noted that will the tracks have been completed and test running commenced, minor works are been done on the stations. Amaechi who underscored the importance of rail transportation to the economic revival of the nation noted that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration was laying a solid infrastructural foundation capable of redefining capital projects implementation since the country’s return to democratic governance in 1999. According to him, “We have put the President on notice that we are ready to commission the Lagos- Ibadan railway by April. Probably, since we have democracy day in May, he may wish to commission it in May. “When we took over from the previous government, we met the Abuja- Kaduna railway at 80 percent completion, but nearly abandoned. We had to address the issues, complete the project and commission it for usage within one year. We then commenced the construction of the Lagos – Ibadan railway and the Itakpe- Warri railway. If you go to Agbor yard, you will see the huge investment in the yard.” He also spoke on the noticeable improvements in the maritime sector under the watch of the present administration even as he blamed to slow pace of development of infrastructure on paucity of funds. “If you want to govern Nigeria, you need to impose orderliness; you need to put in place law and order. And all that has been successfully done in the maritime sector. “The next thing is infrastructure, which is a bit slow because we don’t have all the funds. We have the Port Harcourt Seaport, the Onne Seaport and even the Tincan,” he said. The Minister further urged Nigerians to understand that unlike the past, money has been a major challenge to government in the past few years.