Former senator representing Rivers South-East district in the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Ngei Abe and environmental right activist, Fyneface Dumnememe Fyneface, have called for Unity among the people of Ogoni ethnic nationality in Rivers State. This is as the Ogoni Youth Federation (OYF) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to urgently implement the Ogoni Bill of Rights (OBR) and the recommendation of the United Nations mission to Ogoniland in 1996. Abe and Fyneface spoke in separate statements issued yesterday in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, to mark the 2020 Ogoni Day celebration. The former senator called on the people to sink all differences, bury their hatchets and unite in order to attract development to the area. He said: “As we celebrate another Ogoni day, let us as a people remember the founding principles of the ogoni struggle. Our quest for justice, commitment to the environment,  demand for political inclusion and most importantly our determination not just to fight for our rights but to do so non violently.” On his part, environmental right activist, Fyneface, decried the factionalization of prominent groups in Ogoniland, especially the Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People (MOSOP) and pan-Ogoni elite group, KAGOTE. He said: “We are tired of having these organizations, MOSOP and KAGOTE fictionalized. A situation whereby we are not united and have a common front to present our issues to the world is dragging us back as a people. “I therefore call on Ogoni leaders to end the crisis in MOSOP, end the crisis in KAGOTE, unite and move Ogoni forward according to the ideals of the forefathers of Ogoni especially Ken Saro-Wiwa and others who where murdered in cold blood in 1995.” On it’s part, OYF, in statement signed by it’s President-General, Legborsi Yamaabana, appealed to Buhari to clear the name of slain Ogoni leader, Kenule Saro-Wiwa and eight others that executed in 1995 along with him, as well as honour him post-humously. The statement reads in part: “We urge President Buhari to urgently implement the Ogoni Bill of Rights (OBR) and the recommendation of the United Nations mission to Ogoni in 1996. “Ogoni youths are sending a strong note of appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to clear the name of the renowned human/environmental rights activist, Ken Saro-Wiwa and his eight lieutenants who were extra-judiciary executed by the Sani Abacha military junta and bestow posthumous national honours on them. “We are shocked that in 2018, national recognition was conferred by the presidency on M.K.O. Abiola, Babagana Kingibe, Gani Fawehinmi and no accolade whatsoever was  given to the Ogoni nine despite their roles in enthroning democracy in the country with their lives.”