Residents of Etim Umana and Anua communities  in Uyo metropolis in Akwa Ibom  State have expressed satisfaction with the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project (NEWMAP) for commencing  permanent work at the gully erosion sites in the communities. The gully sites were formally handed over to the contracting firm Nigerpet Structures Limited  yesterday by Akwa Ibom  State governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel. The governor was represented by the commissioner for Environment and Petroleum Resources, Hon. Ekong Sampson at a brief ceremony signalling the takeoff of construction works at both sites. The commissioner charged the construction firm to maintain good standard as government would not compromise on quality delivery. He said, “The state government will not compromise quality in terms of erosion and flood projects. I trust that these two projects will reflect the standard that Nigerpet is known for”. Managing director of Nigerpet Structures, Engr. Mujeed Mallud Muhaheed assured that his company would build on the existing quality standards witnessed during the emergency intervention saying it will turn the ugly terrain into a tourist attraction. “This was an emergency intervention site, if we didn’t  commence work early  the erosion would have encroached further, that’s why you’ve seen the gully head is stable. Now that the World Bank has finally awarded the full work, the full scope will be done. We are ready,” he said. The project engineer, Akaninyene  Henry, said that the emergency intervention structures will form part of the permanent work explaining that, “all we are going to do is to extend the drain from where we stopped and take it to the final point – the discharge point”. Earlier, the state project coordinator of NEWMAP, Akwa Ibom State, Dr. Ubong Harrison, informed the commissioner that the project has passed through all the requirements of the World Bank and the design has benefited from all the value additions, “and we have no doubt in our minds that whatever is going to be put here will last and be able to survive the rigours of weather”. Some youths of the community expressed joy at the start of permanent work and pledged to support the contracting firm for the project to succeed.