The Nigerian Boeing trainee who was reported to be among the victims of the ill-fated January 8, 2020 Ukrainian plane crash in Iran, Adeleye Olayinka Bernard said he is still alive. Adeleye, who is the Corps Supretendent, Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps, Odi-Olowo Ojuwoye Local Development Area Command, Lagos State, made the clarification at a news conference with his lawyer, Femi Martins, on Wednesday in Lagos. He told newsmen that although his name was not the name mentioned in false publications, but his pictures was attached to the news published by some media depicting that he was the Nigerian that died in the Ukraine plane crash. According to him, he said: “I am not dead. In fact, I have never travelled by air before, let alone to Ukraine. He noted that the publication caused a very grave consequences as a close relative collapsed when she saw the pictures. To him, he said, “this has really affected me as I now wear face cap to cover my face because whenever I am walking on the road, people called me ‘dead man walking.’ According to his lawyer, Barrister Femi Martins, said the fake news emanated from an online blogger ‘Instablog9ja’ on the 10th of January, 2020, which incidentally was the birthday of the client. On Sunday 12th of January, 2020, same picture appeared on the front page of Sunday Punch Newpapers with the caption ‘Nigerian Boeing Trainee Among 176 Killed In Ukrainian Plane Crash’. He added that the fake story was also on Linda Ikeji’s page, Facebook and a friend to our Client also said he saw it on CNN, amongst other online and media outfits. He said, “The picture that was used in the publications was the same picture that is on his Instagram profile page. “Why will someone use the picture of his client and claim that he was the Nigerian that died in the Ukraine plane crash” Barrister Martins therefore, advised bloggers and media outfits saddled with the task of disseminating information to ensure due diligence by verifying stories at their disposal before dissemination to the public