The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has expressed misgivings over the country’s rising debt stock and therefore admonished the federal government to exercise restraints on the matter because it was getting above the nation’s domestic and external revenue. It specifically urged the fiscal authorities not to be carried away by the fact that Nigeria’s debt-to-Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio was still within the 25 per cent debt limit set by the government. Before the apex bank’s warning yesterday, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) had in April 2019 said Nigeria’s debt-to-GDP ratio was good but risky and cannot be guaranteed going forward. After its meeting in Abuja, the MPC said that since public debt was rising faster than both domestic and external revenue, there was need for the government to tread consciously in interpreting the debt-to- GDP ratio. CBN governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, who briefed journalists on the outcome of the MPC meeting in Abuja, yesterday, said that “the committee also noted the rising burden of debt services and urged the fiscal authorities to strongly consider building buffers by not sharing all proceeds from the Federation Account at the monthly FAAC meetings to avert the macroeconomic downturn in the event of an oil price shock,” Meanwhile, the MPC has announced an increase in the bank’s Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR). The committee by a decision of nine members voted to alter the CRR by 500 basis points from 22.5 to 27.5 per cent while leaving all other policy parameters constant. This implies that the MPC voted to change the CRR from 22.5 to 27.5 per cent; retain the MPR at 13.5 per cent; retain the asymmetric corridor of +200 and -500 basis points around the MPR and retain the liquidity ratio at 30 per cent. The committee said that it considered it prudent to raise the CRR to curtail liquidity soffit in the banking system and asserted that “increasing the CRR at this time is fortuitous as it will help address monetary- induced inflation whilst retaining the benefit from the bank’s Loan-to-Deposit Ratio policy, which has been significantly increasing credit to private sector as well as pursuing market interest rate downwards.” Emefiele said that the aim is to mop the excess liquidity to a level that it (MPC) considers optimal to be able to run the economy in a way that the level of excess liquidity does not become injurious to the economy. MPC charged the management of the apex bank to be more vigorous in its drive to improve access to credit through its pursuit of the LDR policy because it would help to create job opportunities and boost output as well as moderating prices. It noted that gross credit in the industry grew by N2 trillion between May 2019 and December 2019, which was channelled to employment stimulating sectors such as agriculture and manufacturing. The MPC also urged the government to gradually reduce reliance on oil receipts and focus on revenue diversification through reforms in the tax system. Also, the committee charged the government to rationalise fiscal expenditure towards reducing the current high cost of governance. While applauding the government for the recent signing of the 2020 Finance Act which opens a new vista of opportunities in the public finance management, MPC expressed concern about the rising inflation which increased consecutively in the last four months as at December 2019 to 11.48 per cent and higher than its target range of 6.9 per cent. The rising price level is attributable to a combination of structural and supply factors, expansionary fiscal policy and growth in money supply due to rising liquidity soffit in the industry and changes in the bank’s Open Market Operation (OMO) policy. The MPC, therefore, called on fiscal authorities to speedily address structural impediments, which are responsible for the development. MPC identified the impediments as infrastructure deficit and the continued clashes between herdsmen and farmers which have constrained domestic production and contributed substantially to a rise in food inflation. It therefore urged the federal government to relentlessly seek innovative ways of addressing the security challenges facing the country in order to boost aggregate food supply. 