Residents of Dakwa community in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) have lamented lack of basic amenities, such as secondary school, potable water and accessible roads to the community Some of the residents who spoke with LEADERSHIP appealed to the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and the AMAC chairman, Hon. Abdullahi Candido to provide basic amenities that would give meanings to their existence in the community. A resident of the community, Simon Shekwo, explained that the non-availability of secondary school in the community have made their children to attend secondary school at Dei-Dei community, which he said always posed a threat to the children’s lives. “Our children always risk their lives crossing the ever-busy Zuba Expressway on daily basis to go to school at Dei-Dei. And whenever they are out, we are always tensed, praying that they will return home safe. If there is a secondary school in our community, they will not be taking such risk,” he said. Another resident of the community, Ladi Ibrahim, lamented lack of potable water in the community, just as she appealed to the AMAC chairman to provide accessible water supply in the community to ease the suffering of the people. “In terms of water supply, we are really suffering in this community, because if we do not buy water from vendor, popularly known as ‘Mairua’, we will not have water to do anything at home. We buy a truck of water for between N350 to N400 on daily basis. It is not easy for us at all. We need government intervention in this community,” he said. Another resident, Musa Bala, said that the feeder roads in the community has gone beyond imagination, which made it seem as if the government has completely neglected the people. “The roads in the community have all gone bad, that during rainy season, it becomes very difficult for people to move around in the community. We know that constructing roads within communities is the responsibility of the council, that is why we are appealing to the AMAC chairman to come to our aids,” he said.