A couple, Mr. Tunde and Mrs Christianah Emmanuel, have lost three children to fire incident which occurred at their residence,  Orisunbare Street, Eyin Grammar Ibadan, Oyo State. The incident which occurred on Friday, burnt the victims identified as  Glory (14); Samuel (8) and Darasimi (3) to death. The incident occurred when their parents were not at home, having been reportedly locked in and could not escape when the fire which cause could not be ascertained started at 1.00 a.m. The night guard in the area reportedly raised the alarm and alerted the community when he noticed the midnight fire which also affected other rooms in the compacted building. Sources said the fire began as a result of a spark from an electrical structure, others said a lit candle might have been responsible for the fire. When journalists visited the scene, two single-face gas cookers that had been razed were seen, while the police had evacuated the remains of the three children. Speaking with journalists, a resident of the building, Adeola, whose room  was also torched by the fire said, “We were all sleeping when the night guards called our attention to the fire incident from outside around few minutes to 1 a.m. ‘We were shocked and we ran for safety only to realise that the children of Mr Tunde and Mrs Christianah Emmanuel; Glory, Samuel and the youngest Darasimi, were locked inside their room. “Then, people made efforts to rescue them and somehow quench the fire with water. But this was not enough as the fire kept on blaring. Glory attempted to escape and possibly rescue his other siblings, but the door was locked from outside with a big padlock.” “As much as neighbours attempted to rescue them, they were kept away by the force of the fire before things turned awry. The water we were trying to use seemed like fuelling it the more. “The fire-fighters had difficulties getting here because most gates leading to this area had been locked. So, it was tasking getting here on time, though their efforts with two trucks of water eventually quenched it (fire),” he said. The Oyo State police command  public relations officer  (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, confirmed the incident, adding, “On January 3, 2020, at the early hours, there was a fire incident at No 6, Orisunbare street, Eyin Grammar Ibadan where three children, Glory Emmanuel, female, aged 14 years; Samuel Emmanuel, male, aged eight years; and Darasimi Emmanuel, female, aged three years of the same mother were burnt to death in an eight-room apartment. The police have commenced investigation as to the cause of the fire incident.” Meanwhile, community sources said the parents of the deceased children were reportedly on night duty when the tragedy happened.