Ekiti State governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has expressed the determination of his administration to ensure that every part of the state is accessible by good roads infrastructure The governor added that the state government will not lag behind in the delivery of developmental and infrastructural facilities, despite paucity of funds in the state. He spoke on Monday at different towns during the flag-off of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Agbado-Omuo road, ,Ilupeju-Ire-Igbemo-Ijan road, Oye-Ikun-Otun road and Aramoko-Erijiyan-Ikogosi road in the state. Fayemi assured that the tentacles of development will be spread across all the 133 towns and other villages, in fulfilment of the social contracts he signed with Ekiti residents. While urging the people to create enabling environment for the contractors for the timely delivery of the projects he said his administration will work hard to mobilise funds to carry out landmark projects that will add values to the socio-economic and physical well- being of the populace. “The contractors started some of these roads being re-awarded in 2013 during our first term , but could not proceed substantially  before my exit. The last administration did little work before being abandoned and that informed why we terminated the contracts and re-awarded to the original contractors. “If you check critically, all these roads are critical to the economic development of our people. The Ilupeju-Ire- Ijan road will resolve the challenge of moving the Ire Burnt Brick products from the town to other parts of the state and the country at large. “We are determined and we shall make sure that every part of the state is  accessible by good roads infrastructure,  In line with the cardinal objective  of  infrastructural and capital development of our administration . “Let me assure you that we won’t allow paucity of funds to deter us from achieving this. We have sourced for funds to solve many of our challenges. “I want the contractors to deliver in record time. But to achieve this,  I implore  our people to cooperate with the contractors to be able to deliver  timely, so that the projects can be beneficial to every Ekiti people and intending investors”, he said.