Africa’s wealthiest man, and philanthropist, Aliko Dangote, is the only African billionaire competing among top 100 members in the world. Dangote has significantly moved up in the World billionaires’ list as he emerged 96th richest person in the world, with an estimated worth of $14.8 billion, as against his previous ranking of 103rd in the world. Dangote, who remains the richest man in Africa for the eighth year running, was the only Nigerian on the list of the top 100 billionaires, as released last week by Bloomberg in its yearly billionaires list. Jeff Bezos remains the richest in the world with $115 billion in his kitty while Bill Gates and Bernard Arnault followed as second and third respectively with $113 billion and $105 billion.  Warren Buffett was the fourth with $89.3 billion on the world billionaires’ chart. Dangote’s estimated worth in the latest Bloomberg ranking far outstrips an earlier ranking by the Forbes Magazine, another elite publication which placed his fortune at $10.8bn in the 2019 Forbes Africa’s Billionaires’ list released in January, although he retained the rank as the richest African for the 8th consecutive year in the latter ranking. Bloomberg is a global information and technology company, that connect decision makers to a dynamic network of data, people and ideas, ‘accurately delivering business and financial information, news and insights to customers around the world’. Bloomberg L.P. provides financial software tools such as an analytics and equity trading platform, data services, and news to financial companies and organisations through the Bloomberg Terminal.’ Africa’s richest man, with his improved worth of $14.8 billion, controls Dangote Industries, a closely held conglomerate. The Lagos, Nigeria-based company owns sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest cement producer, Dangote Cement, which had revenue of N901.2 billion ($2.5 billion) in 2018. It also has interests in sugar, salt, flour, fertiliser and packaged food. It would be recalled that Aliko Dangote, was also recently named as the sixth most charitable man in the World by Richtopia, a digital periodical that covers business, economics, and financial news, based in the United Kingdom. This recognition came after he endowed his foundation, the Aliko Dangote Foundation (ADF) to the tune of $1.25 billion Warren Buffett, Bill Gates and J.K Rowlings occupied the first three positions on the World Charitable lists, while Oprah Winfrey and Elon Musk occupied the fourth and fifth positions respectively. Aside Aliko Dangote, Tony Elumelu, chairman of United Bank for Africa was 11th on the list and these two were the only Nigerians on that list. Aliko Dangote started his Foundation in 1981, with a mission to enhance opportunities for social change through strategic investments that improve health and wellbeing, promote quality education, and broaden economic empowerment opportunities. Aliko Dangote Foundation was however incorporated in 1994 as a charity in Lagos, Nigeria. 20 years later, the Foundation has become the largest private Foundation in sub Saharan Africa, with the largest endowment by a single African donor. The primary focus of Aliko Dangote Foundation is health and nutrition, supported by wrap-around interventions in education, empowerment, and humanitarian relief. Also, Dangote Group is striving for self-reliance in Nigeria in all the sectors where it operates and has drawn up ambitious plans to set up world-class projects in new realms such as Agriculture, Petroleum Refinery and Petrochemicals, fertilizer, and Telecom. The Group has almost single-handedly taken Nigeria to self-sufficiency in cement and is expanding rapidly across Africa, helping other countries achieve the same. Dangote during a facilities tour of the Dangote Oil Refinery and Fertiliser Project in Lagos, the minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, said that Dangote Group is strengthening its various investment in turning the Group into an export based companies, resulting into transforming the country from import based to export based economy. According to her, they did it in the cement industry, making the country self-sufficient in the production of cement and export of the commodity, and the Group is replicating the same in the other sectors it is into, Oil and Gas, Sugar, Rice, among others. Dangote, said that the firm had adopted measures that would help it to expand its revenue base from $4 billion to $30 billion annually beginning from 2021. He said that the firm was ready to transform the nation’s domestic market by providing forex through expanded operations capacity of its group in the refinery, petrochemical, fertiliser and other supporting projects. “Our refinery can meet 100 percent of Nigeria’s requirements of all liquid products such as, gasoline, diesel, kerosene and aviation jet. It will also have surplus of each of these products for export,’’ he said. He added that the ongoing projects at the Lekki Free Trade Zone had the capacity to generate about 32,000 direct and indirect jobs during and after completion. “With the new areas of investments, we are doing just $4 billion dollars of revenue now. By the time we finish and  beginning from  2021,  we will be having $30 billion of revenue because we will by then have the refinery, petrochemical and fertiliser all coming on stream, also, over a million tons of rice. “We will have about 600,000 tons of locally made sugar by that time and our cement will have gone further. Beginning from January next year, eight million export facility of our cement  company to other Africa countries to generate foreign exchange will commence operations,’’ he said. Dangote said that the firm was targeting to meet the nation’s forex needs through its huge investment, calling on other private sector investors to partner government in power supply to have a meaningful GDP growth. According to him, “With the completion of our projects, we see Nigeria moving from an import based economy to an export based economy. “We have tried that in cement and it has really worked in the sense that we are looking at exporting almost $500 million worth of cement in the next one to two years.’’ The Group’s integrated Refinery and Petrochemical project is the largest industrial complex in the history of Nigeria, which is to be completed by 2020.