The minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has kicked off the maiden edition of the Oyo Unity Cup at the Soun Stadium Ogbomosho, in Oyo State over the weekend. Speaking to newsmen at the launch, the minister said that the idea behind the competition is to discover new talents who would compete in the international scene and make a name for themselves and the country. “Footballers, who have gone to international stardom were discovered through such competitions like the Unity Cup we are having and we think that we need to go back to where we started from. The grassroot, whether in football, swimming or boxing is significant” he said. “What is happening here today signposts the future of development of sports and particularly football absolutely in our country”. Dare also emphasized the importance of football as a uniting factor in Nigeria. “When you look around the stadium today, we have people from the various political parties in the country, we have people of different religions and they’re all excited about one thing, the game of football.” On plans to replicate the competition in other states of the federation, the minister said, “I’ll try to reach out to other states and try to find individuals who can step-up and start a Unity Cup in Kwara, Kebbi and Kaduna States. Imagine Unity Cups played in every state with these young one’s ages 15 to 21, we would have started a revolution in our football development and in our sports development”. The Oyo Unity Cup with participating teams drawn from 14 federal constituencies in the state will produce four winners who will go home with cash prizes. On her part, the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) board member, Aisha Falode commended the sports minister for the initiative adding that the future of football stars can only be discovered from the grassroots. “We must commend the minister for the Unity Cup here in Ogbomosho. If we have this kind of program replicated across the local governments and states in Nigeria, then we will have a pool of players to draw from when we need replacements for those who have given their services to their fatherland,” she said. Notable dignitaries at the launch of the Oyo Unity Cup include ex Internationals Daniel Amokachi, Taribo West and Joseph Yobo, Patrick Pascal; Aisha Falode, chairperson of the Nigeria Professional Women League; Dr. Amos Adamu, former NFF President; CAF executive board member, Alhaji Ibrahim Gusau; NFF board member and FA chairmen of Ogun and Oyo States respectively.