With increased enlightenment on Annuity package, there are strong indications that the volume and value of Annuity Business, currently worth over N323 billion, will grow rapidly in the near future, LEADERSHIP learnt. There has been increased education and sensitisation of retiring workers by life insurance companies recently on the need to buy Annuity plan at the point of retirement and it seems those efforts are now yielding dividend with the gradual increase in the number of annuity uptake. The Pension Reforms Act (PRA) 2014 provides two exit windows for any retiring worker, which are; Annuity Plan and Programmed Withdrawal. To this end, Annuity plan has witnessed increased patronage from retirees in the last two years, owing to the fact that the policyholders are paid monthly entitlement as long as they are alive. NAICOM had earlier said, the insurance sector life annuity fund portfolio stood at about N323 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2019, noting that the figure represented a growth of 17.46 per cent compared to that of 2018 which was N275 billion. Recently, investigation revealed that, although the number of pensioners subscribing to Programmed Withdrawal far outweighs that of Annuity, the rate of growth in Annuity Business in the last two years was remarkable as Annuity fund grew by over N50 billion in the last one year, the highest annual growth in recent time. Further investigation revealed that more retiring workers are eyeing Annuity plan, a development that shows the growth prospect for the business. Although, LEADERSHIP had earlier revealed that about four underwriting firms are cutting down on the size of their Annuity Business, simply because of low returns on investment, resulting from unfavorable inflationary trends in the economy, there are indications that both NAICOM and the National Pension Commission (PenCom) are already reviewing the Annuity Business guideline to address the complaints of life insurers. Speaking at the 2020 NAICOM seminar for Insurance Journalists in Kano State yesterday, the deputy director/head, Research, Statistics & Strategy Directorate, NAICOM, Mr Gbolahan Adewale Suleiman, disclosed that the two regulators are reviewing the existing regulation on Annuity Business, which, he said, is gradually attracting the needed attention from retirees. He believes that, as more workers in both public and private sectors begin to retire, it is expected that the number of subscribers to Annuity plan would gradually rise, thereby, making the business another lucrative revenue generating window for life insurance operators in the country. Giving his welcome address at the seminar, the Acting commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, said, annuity business making headlines recently with a boost in the contribution of the business to the sector. The public, he added, is becoming more exposed and knowledgeable about the workings of Annuity, expecting that this will continue as the future is looking very bright for annuity business. This has also shown a positive growth in trust and confidence in the insurance sector, he pointed out. Life annuity is a stream of periodic payments that commences at a specified date, which is either the normal retirement age or at 50 in the case of early retirement. This payment could either be monthly or quarterly depending on the retiree’s preference.  The benefits include; the continuous flow of regular income for the retiree, insulation from the risk associated with the investment of lump sum benefits, structured management of resources and the transference of the risk of diminution in assets and possible failure of investments of retirees to insurance companies which are better equipped to manage such risks.