President Muhammadu Buhari has put paid to speculations that his relationship with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has gone sour.  In what appears to be his first formal reaction to the rumour, Buhari declared that he has a “perfect” relationship with the number two citizen. Buhari gave the clarification when asked to rate his relationship with his deputy on a scale of one to 10 by The Interview in Abuja during the weekend. In the exclusive interview, Buhari, in his response to the question, replied: “Perfect. Or has he complained to you?” The president further said that he had never complained about the vice president to anybody. Buhari also asserted that the opinion of former defence minister, Gen. Theophilus Danjuma, was not more important than that of millions of Nigerians who voted for his re-election last year. Asked if he was concerned about the vote of low confidence expressed by Danjuma during a recent book launch in Ibadan, Oyo State, Buhari said: “And what is the vote of confidence of Nigerians in me, as expressed in the polls last year? That is what matters more, not the opinion of one man.” Danjuma had said that” if he says what he knows about the goings on in the government, Nigerians would lose sleep.“ The comment, however, has been viewed in some quarters as an expression of lack of confidence in Buhari’s government, and a blow from a man who is widely believed to have been one of his major financial pillars. But the president insisted that his re-election was a vindication of the voters’ confidence and support for him and his government’s policies. Buhari also commented on the insinuation that a “cabal” runs his government; his promise to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty; and criticisms that his claim that he is now a “reformed democrat”, is fake. In a press release yesterday, the managing director/editor-in-chief of The Interview, Mr. Azu Ishiekwene, said: “This interview, published on our website: www.theinterview.ng is a window on what the president is thinking about some of the most important issues of his second term so far, from the Economic Advisory Council to the rule of law; and from his relationship with his deputy and 2023 to the country’s debt profile.” … Orders Air Power Against Bandits In Niger, Kaduna, Zamfara states Meanwhile, President Buhari has authorised the deployment of air power to support troops and policemen deployed in Dogon Gona forest in Niger State to counter the menace of bandits operating in the forest area, which also borders Kaduna and Zamfara States. He described the repeated attacks in the area leading to the loss of several lives in the communities “as a disaster for the nation.” Buhari, in a statement issued in Abuja, yesterday, by his spokesman, Garba Shehu, said that he had received assurances that with the harmattan dust gradually easing its hold on the skies, fighter aircraft would this week join the efforts to provide effective air attacks against bandits, kidnappers and cattle rustlers who have been attacking remote communities around Dogon Gona forest in Niger State. In line with the directive, Shehu said that the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) is setting up refueling facilities at Minna, the Niger State capital to support the air operations, stressing that given the improved weather conditions, a major exercise to “visually acquire targets” and launch attacks will soon follow. He said: “The Police Command in Niger has equally given assurances that the planned dedicated air raids to complement the police helicopter gunship operations remain the best approach given the lack of motorised roads in the areas constantly under attack. “President Buhari commiserates with the government and people of Niger State following the attacks and the loss of lives that followed, and assures that victim communities in the state will not be abandoned by the rest of the country. Why Bandits Target Niger, By Residents And as bandits continued to attack villagers in parts of Shiroro, Munya, Rafi and Paikoro local government areas of Niger State, the residents have attributed it to the heavy presence of cattle in the affected areas. The residents told LEADERSHIP that the main attraction of the bandits to the areas was cattle as the attackers were more of cattle rustlers who had their camps for the illicit business around Allawa and Kamuku forest, which extends to the neighbouring Zamfara and Kaduna States. It was learnt that some of the villagers often keep herd of cattle with their crop during the dry season and often buy to resell during the farming season as backup capital for crop farming and that the bandits through informants in the communities were aware of the development. The bandits invaded the villages along Gurmana and Bassa district of Shiroro local government after they were chased out from their camps in Kaduna and Zamfara, using some willing villagers as informants. One of the villagers (name withheld) said that the bandits operate only in villages in hard to reach topography for immediate rescue. Another villager said that „the bandit easily move the cattle to the forest and move out weeks after operation when the security around the outlets will not be as tight as when they had finished their operation; the only thing that can stop the bandits is combined land and air security operation.“ „The most recent attacks were on Kudodo Nakpala and Gulapai communities of Shiroro local government area whereas a few days back it was villages in Munya that they attacked. It showed that they are well coordinated and operate in large number“ a security source said. Last week, the chairman of Shiroro council, Suleiman Chukuba, said that when a combined team of local vigilantes and mobile policemen made some attempts on the bandits’ camps, it was discovered that they were in large number. Relatedly, Governor Sani Bello has expressed worry over the unfortunate attacks and disclosed that air and land surveillance by security personnel had begun in the areas to flush out the bandits. The governor confirmed that the criminals were taking advantage of the vastness and difficult terrain of the forestland to unleash terror on the innocent people, adding that the state government was supporting the joint security taskforce to chase the criminals out of the state. In a statement released by the chief press secretary to the governor, Mary Noel Berje, sympathised with the victims of the recent armed attacks in the affected communities. Governor Bello said that stringent military action had been directed to bring the bandits down, noting that the menace of banditry in those parts of the state was rife because they were crossing over from neighbouring Zamfara and Kaduna States into the axis.