The Cross River State Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC) has raised alarm over what it described as stockpiling of arms by contestants of the All progressive Congress and that of the PDP to intimidate electorates who will participate in the Saturday Rerun elections for Abi/Yakurr federal constituency in Cross River between Dr. Alex Ebona of the APC and the PDP candidates John Gaul Lebo. IPAC Secretary, in Cross River state, Castro Ezama raised the alarm, while reacting to comments making the rounds in some quarters that tension has mounted ahead of the   Ekureku 1 & 2 rerun election  for the Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency, between  former Speaker of the State, Barr. John Gaul Lebo of the PDP and Dr. Alex Egbona of the All Progressive Congress (APC), scheduled for weekend. The IPAC boss called on the department of state security services DSS and the police to be proactive and be alert to the alarm so as to ensure that those found stockpiling arms are made to face the full weight box the law before the issue get out of hands. “We  views with utmost concern, the building tension, arising from preparations for the Ekureku 1 & 2 election rerun for the Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency, between  John Gaul Lebo of the PDP and  Dr. Alex Egbona of the  APC  slated to hold just a few days to come”.Ezama said. “We called on the Cross River  state Commissioner of Police Mr. Nkeruwem Akpan and the Director Department of State  Security Services DSS  to do everything within its reach to ensure  that re-run elections for Abi/ Yakurr  federal constituency scheduled for Saturday January 25, is conducted in the state  without any violence”. “Our deep worries stem from the curious observation that the two Contestants involved, are alleged to have amassed an army of miscreants and weaponry. “We are aware that some of the candidates have mobilised police security from Abuja and other climes for their protection. Let it be known that mobilization of security can only be deployed by the Commissioner of police, Cross River State. “After  engaging hordes of private security personnel, for the purpose of conducting surveillance and possibly unleashing terror on perceived opponents, where deemed fit. “We rise in unison, to strongly condemn such moves, as they were in steep violation of our laws, for the fact that our Constitution rests the burden of securing lives and property on State Agents like Police, DSS, NSCDC, and other State Actors” The IPAC boss maintained. The chairman warned that IPAC will  not hesitate to implement to the later the Political Parties  Code of conduct  which is binding to all candidates irrespective of political divide that exist. Ezama therefore, charged the state  Commissioner of Police  and other Security Agencies, to wade into the issue  and nip it in the bud so as to prevent any hostility from escalating during and after the Saturday polls.