Latter Rain Assembly Senior Pastor and founder, Tunde Bakare has stressed the need to revisit the 1999 Constitution and address the contentious issues in it that are working against having a true federalism in the country. Speaking in his church on Sunday over the controversy generated, since the setting up of the South West security outfit tagged “operation Amotekun”, he said the contentious constitutional question caused the entanglement that greeted the unveiling of the outfit. He said it was high time the country examined the foundations of its nationhood as relates to the newly instituted Western Nigeria Security Network, code-named “Operation Amotekun.” According to him.” I carefully followed the arguments for and against the regional security outfit. I also took note of the positions of the moderates who preferred to stay in the middle of the two dominant poles. I welcome the fact that this sensitive issue sparked some form of ideological debate and created a semblance of leftist, rightist and centrist approach to policy discourse. “This is what democracy is all about and, if well managed by political actors, this discourse can provide us with an opportunity to strengthen our federal governance architecture. “Nevertheless, when one considers the argument for and against Amotekun, one will find a recurring reference to the issues which we, as a nation, have failed to deal with in past decades. The proponents of Amotekun, particularly in the South, justify the move by referencing the Sharia police or Hisbah as a northern version of regional policing. The opponents, on the other hand, particularly from the North, express fears of possible regional political motivations” He added by saying “these are clear indications that the issues we swept under the carpet in past decades are still staring us in the face. We cannot continue to hide under the umbrella of one finger. It is time to address the underlying issues of nationhood and reset Nigeria on the path to predictable progress.” Bakare said. He further explained that, no amount of ringworm medicine can cure leprosy. The human right Pastor stated that, ,’’the way forward for these recurring questions of federalism, including that of regional or state policing, is neither to the left nor to the right, nor is it in the centre of the discourse. “the way forward is to travel downwards to revisit the constitutional foundations while looking upwards with unwavering faith in our divinely ordained destiny as one strong, united nation, with a strong federal government and strong federating units; “A nation in which government as an entity is close enough to serve the people and strong enough to protect them, “he added. Bakare stressed that now that steps were being taken to address the legal deficiencies surrounding Operation Amotekun, one can only hope that the enabling laws that will be enacted by the respective states will cater for the questions of the appropriate security architecture, including the recruitment, screening, training and deployment procedures, as well as seamless tactical operations between the outfit on the one hand, and the conventional federal police commissions in the South-West states on the other hand.” Bakare said irrespective of the agreement between the federal government and the South-West governors notwithstanding, Nigerians must not let the moment pass by without once again telling themselves some home truths regarding the underlying issues of constitutional federalism that have continued to confront us. ” We must not lose sight of the main issue in the Operation Amotekun debate, which is that the current mono-level security architecture has proved inadequate to combat the security challenges that confront not just the South-West but every zone in our nation – security challenges such as kidnapping, herdsmen attacks, cattle rustling, terrorism and the porosity of our borders. ” He noted that while the debate over the legality or otherwise of regional security efforts like Amotekun were raging during the past week, Nigeria was, once again, plunged into mourning with the murder of a chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lawan Andimi, by regional terrorists. “We must not forget the fact that tens of thousands have lost their lives to criminal elements who have taken advantage of the national security gaps in the respective zones of our federation. This is why I believe that, even though the efforts of the South-West governors towards taking responsibility for the security of the zone are commendable, our nation needs a more strategically effective approach to national, regional and local security,’’ he said. Bakare who also advocated for creation of State Police, added that to create lasting change the country must institutionalise security interventions rather than respond with a fire brigade approach to emerging challenges. He also clamoured for a holistic, systematic and collaborative approach to national security reforms will, of necessity, by bringing the diverse interest groups and stakeholders to the dialogue table, beginning on the platform of the Council of State.