At a media interactive session in Lagos last week, the minister of mines and steel development, Mr. Olamilekan Adegbite gave an overview of the sectors development and offered answers to critical issues especially with governments plan to bring back the moribund Ajaokuta project into production. CHIKA IZUORA was there for the LEADERSHIP Sunday. What is the status of plans to revive the Ajaokuta steel industry? A lot of work has been done to ensure this important facility comes on stream soon. We are about to sign the Memorandum of Understanding, MOU, for the resuscitation of the project. The MoU would be signed before the end of January and the project would create employment for about 10,000 engineers and facilitate industrial transformation agenda of the government. Ajaokuta is critical to our plans to industrialize the country and you may be shocked to know that federal government has spent about $6 billion in attempts to revive the company. A Russian engineering and construction will undertake the necessary work to bring the facility into operation, and the exercise will be financed by the state-owned development institution Russian Export Center and the Cairo-based African Export-Import Bank which is expected to commit about $1 billion. The output would go some way to realizing Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari’s plans to diversify the economy away from oil and encourage local production. Ajaokuta was designed to produce as much as 3-million tons of steel a year, and would have largely eliminated the need for imports. It will interest you to know that government has realised that the best option is to return Russia which handled the project from inception, to complete, operate the project to recoup their investment and then transfer back to the country. Earlier discussions on the plant were sealed when Buhari and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin struck a government-to-government agreement during the Russia-Africa summit in Sochi. After signing the MoU, a formal agreement will follow which will spell out other details of the job and we expect Russia to appoint a competent firm that will complete, operate and eventually transfer the plant back to the Nigerian government after “training our engineers to take over.” The two governments plan to conclude the deal by January, after which it should take a maximum of two years to complete the blast furnace, the key component of the facility that will turn domestic iron ore into liquid steel, Adegbite said.  The issue of MoU we understand was initiated last year, why are we experiencing delay putting ink on paper? It is a process and like I said, the MoU gives us broad outlines of what to be done, after that we are going to sign proper contract agreement, the Russian government will nominate a company that has the competence to do this work with their full backing and they will sit to negotiate because they are going to give us cost, we are going to spend so much to do this. Already we have a technical committee and we have done a technical audit of Ajaokuta so we have an idea. Going back to the question, it is a slow process because we are dealing with government to government. While we were in Sochi and the agreement was reached between president Putin an President Mohamadu Buhari, we immediately contacted home and we drafted an MoU quickly and gave it to the Russians to sign but they returned it saying that things are not done that way. We had to give the MOU to our own foreign affairs ministry. That is the way they do government to government business. We couldn’t give it to them directly,so we brought it back home, gave it to the foreign affair ministry and they sent it to the foreign affair ministry in Russia who will now send it to the ministry concerned. So it’s a slow process but its better for us, we will get there. We have done things commercially in the past and we did quick one and it never worked. So I think we should be patient and the government to government thing will work for us. So we are looking that the MOU will be signed at the end of this month. The beauty of it is that we are not importing any raw materials. There are about 14 raw materials for production in Ajaokuta and we have all of that. The only things we need to put in place and will be imported are things like the electronic which we don’t have and that is the stage where we will have to sit down and iron out the contract. Of course several sectors will be involved, the ministry of justice will be involved, once the contract is signed contractors will move to site and work begins. We are looking at a 2 year period maximum And ajaokuta can begin to produce Most of the mechanical equipments in Ajaokuta are still good but most of the electrical parts are obsolete, these ones will have to be changed. Don’t forget that this was something that was conceived in 1979. So a lot of rehabilitation will still take place, more like they are coming to complete operate and transfer.  How has SMDF helped to boost the mining Sector? Yes I give credit to my predecessors who have done well like Oby Ezekwesili and governor Kayode Fayemi. Fayemi, who was the minister immediate predecessor established the Solid Mineral Development Fund, SMDF. This SMDF is supposed to be funded with about 250 billion naira and they will provide the opportunity for local miners. The fund is intended to support mining in Nigeria generally especially artisanal mining and small scale mining. So to start it off as part of the intervention fund the federal government gave the ministry about N30 billion. Half of it was spent on this exploration project and N2.5 billion of that went to SMDF to start as a seed fund. SMDF in its wisdom, went to partner with the Bank of Industry, BOI, and the bank added another N2.5 billion, to make a total of N5 billion and that’s the money you are referring to. So the N5 billion is there to support artisanal mining and small scale projects in Nigeria, its an ongoing process, but people have found it difficult to access that many. Because a lot of people thought it was just a windfall which they can take and go. No, nobody wants to waste tax payers money, so whoever we are giving it to, the person must show business development strategy and we have generous interest rate of below 5 per cent and 3 per cent and that is all that. We have done this so that beneficiaries will make use of it justifiably and pay it back at the low interest rate. So its an ongoing process and I think so far, 1 or 2 people have accessed it. The maximum you can access as a corporate body is least about N5 million. So it’s a work in progress and the money is there. When I came to office I was told that our own part has even grown from N2.5 billion to N3.1 billion. Because its been with BOI, for a while so it is an interest yielding account so the money is still there. What we are doing now is to work out some modalities so we can ease access to that money. One of that is to provide equipment for people instead of giving them money directly so they can stop the use of diggers, shovels, wheelbarrows. We can provide them with earth moving tractors or even a bulldozers to clear their site, we can also provide excavators, dumpers and stuff like that. So we want to create a situation where miners will be close to the mining site where people are working. We will also create a leasing company there, provide equipment. So you can go to those places, rent equipments without upfront payment once you come into the bracket. We will be going to them to identify with the people and getting their bio data. So when we have all that, we know who you are, where you work and we can provide equipments for you. With this strategy we will help increase your productivity and your yield is higher, we will also teach you safer methods of doing these things so as to avoid accidents but all you have to do is come in and pay royalty so whatever you realize, we will get a part percentage. Government has licensed over 250 mining sites and right now a lot of them are being exploited, they don’t know the value of what they have realized so they sell things worth N5 million for N250,000 and to an artisanal miner who doesn’t know better, sees that as a lot of money. So we are trying to reverse that, we give you equipment, you have higher yield, you sell to accredited buying centers, you get full value, but you pay realty. But it’s a win win situation.  What is the fate of Alaja, Oshogbo and Katsina steel projects? For Alaja and the rest of them rely on revival of Ajaokuta because Ajaokuta is supposed to produce for Alaja to change it to other things. Same thing with Oshogbo, Jos and katsina. Those ones were built along with Ajaokuta. Ajaokuta will produce the raw material which others can convert and that’s the basic thing. When everything went down some of these assets were privatized so they are no longer with us but Ajaokuta itself is the mother that produces for the other people and those projects of course will be reinstated if Ajaokuta should come on. For instance Alaja is in private hands now and the people who bought it came to my office, they want to import bilex to produce in Alaja and they find it couldn’t work out as a business by the time they import bilex into Nigeria and you start using reinforcement. Your cost is already beyond the market price for imported steel so you cant compete so we are looking for a way out and Ajaokuta is the way out. By the time Ajaokuta produces the raw material for all these industries including Alaja, of course Ajaokuta will deal with them commercially. Osogbo, Jos and katsina projects will come up after that, so Ajaokuta is meant to be the raw primary producer for all of these people and its still integrated. Afreximbank is bringing 1 billion dollars to the table and the Russian export center is bringing N460 million dollars. These are the amounts declared so far and it is coming at less than five per cent, but its not so much a debt to Nigeria because Mr President had told us he doesn’t want Nigerian money involved in there. So Ajaokuta is being taken as a business case, so the business case built around Ajaokuta is such that it will pay back by itself so we are not going to use tax payers money to pay the debt back. Of course if you build your house and you have not tiled it and you say someone should come and do the tiling, its still building. While the workers in Ajaokuta has been very good, they have maintained all the equipment there and they have been working.  Is government implementing 13 per cent derivation for host states? Yes government is implementing the 13 per cent derivation, I can tell you its being paid. I don’t have the exact figures. You know when you do a breakdown of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) what goes to each state is calculated from oil and gas, those ones who get a derivation of 13 per cent from mines is not such a significant figure. That’s why even when I tell some governors they are not aware of it. The money is credited to each state, so the federal mines officers that are here are in charge of each state, what is mined in every state, the royalty paid in that state is calculated. So we know that, lets say from Lagos we realize N200 million before  it goes to be shared by the rest Lagos state is entitled to 13 per cent of that as derivation. So we monitor and keep data of what Is being made in every state and each state gets 13 per cent.The accountant general office can provide you all the details.  What are the plans to promote gold export? For gold, the government is taking the bull by the horn, there is an initiative put together by federal government where the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN) has commited to be buying gold and we have given out licenses on that. That is a starting point because when you do your gold now and sell to the refinery to be refined, CBN has the option to buy from you, you have the option to take it out but it will be better for you to sell to CBN. And gold you would have to secure very well, I can put a kilogram of gold in my pocket and you wont know. So gold is not something you just play about, the kind of security you have to establish to take it abroad is so much. So selling to CBN will pay you better. That’s a starting point, by the time we get to a level where we have abundance of all this we can be trading at the commodity level.