In what can be described as drama took place at Ogbole, Ogume community in Ndokwa West LGA of Delta State when the news of Mrs Queen John, a native of the community who was reportedly died and was buried on July 5th, 1991 broken out that she has died again. Report say, a middle aged man said to hailed from the neighbouring community of Utagba-Uno same LGA, broke the news of the demise of the said woman Queen, who was a mother of six children three boys and three girls, before she died in 1991. According to the man, who broke the news, he has been living with Mrs Queen John as a good neighbour in Esan, Edo state for almost five years now. He said both of them planned to visit home during the last Christmas and new year celebrations since they can’t be living in the same community in Esan together as brother and sister without knowing their families background. More so, they speak same language and that since they have been together none of her relations came visiting. This, according to him, prompted her to disclosed her home address and her family to him. He said few days to Christmas she died after a brief illness. Luckily, through the address she gave he went down home to broke the news of Queen’s demise, he came with her picture. After breaking the news with her picture, the entire Ogbole community in Ogume became astonished to the point of also breaking the news of her death 29 years ago. The family however assigned two members of the family to accompany him to the mortuary in Esan to ascertained the authenticity of the news. However, four days after they returned home and confirmed that her remain was still in tact in the mortuary. With this development, another delegations comprising expanded members of the community were sent to the mortuary to be doubly sure, they went and saw her remains in the mortuary. As at the time of filing this report, the family were planning on how to bring her corpse back to Ogbole, Ogume for burial again even though some members of the family are kicking against such move on the ground that they have not heard or seen that a person was buried for second time. Investigation by LEADERSHIP revealed that, late Queen was able to give detail background of her children including her last daughter who was just few weeks old before her death in 1991. She had revealed to her neighbour in Esan that her daughter Oluchi, now reside in the community and sells rice and other foodstuffs. Though, efforts, to get in touch with Oluchi prove abortive.