Ekiti state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Ewi of Ado, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe Aladesanmi, and the Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams had been penciled for the 2020 edition of the Oodua Progressive Union world Congress. The event, which is the 6th edition of the Congress is slated for all members of the Oodua Progressive Union (OPU) from across the 87 countries in the world who will converge on Ado Ekiti, Ekiti state capital to celebrate the annual world Congress of the organization. The group, presently in 87 countries in the world, was established in 2011, with the aims of promoting the Yoruba cultural identities in the Diaspora and also enhance both economic and social bonding of all members. This year Congress, according to the organisers, is the 6th edition and part of the programmes slated for the Congress is the courtesy visit to the Ekiti state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. Speaking on the programme, Publicity Secretary of the group, Zachus Somorin said the visit to Ekiti was part of the group’s plan to showcase the love, dedication and commitment to the ideals of Yoruba race. “Many of our members are presently in Nigeria and we are expecting others to join any moment from now. They are coming from all the continents of the world, including Europe, Asia, Africa, America and United Kingdom” “Next Monday, we will visit Governor Kayode Fayemi and the Ewi of Ado, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe Aladesanmi III “The last edition of the Congress was held in Akure, Ondo state, but this year, we are coming down to Ekiti” “The intention of the meeting is to do a thorough appraisals of our activities over years and refocus our efforts in ensuring that Yorubaland regains its lost glory” “We are meeting with the governor to discuss pertinent issues about our race, we are meeting the governor to tell him about our resolve to contribute our quotas to the development of all the six states in the southwest. “Our visit to Ekiti, this year come with a lot of benefits. What this means is that we are injecting several millions into the Ekiti state economy. We are also visiting historical sites in Ekiti, and its environs. All these will definitely translate to economics boom and developing the tourism potentials of Ekiti state” “As the Publicity Secretary of our noble group it is a bit interesting and challenging, however, I will like to thank our global convener, Iba Gani Abiodun Ige Adams, the Aareonakakanfo of Yorubaland for giving me the opportunity to serve the OPU at that level” he said. 