The National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) said reforming the power sector should be paramount even as the country prepares for a planned upward adjustment of electricity tariff. The general-secretary, National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) Comrade Joe Ajaero, said the total reform of the country’s power sector is the only solution that would restore sanity in the system. Speaking to LEADERSHIP, Ajaero said, “We have called for the review of the whole process. It was clear to us that those companies that took over were coming to maximise profit. Electricity could be looked at from two perspectives. It could be an economic venture or a social venture. “Social venture to the extent that government should use it for developmental purpose, but economically those that have taken over are there just to maximise profit. The Discos have been in this business of maximising profit whether power is distributed or not. “So, to a very large extent they have not been living up to expectation. They have been engaging in estimated billing and as far as they make their money, they do not care. I think they have not done well and there is the need for a review of the entire process.” The NUEE secretary said power stations in existence now should be refurbished to operate at optimum. According to him, “Deregu, Papalanto and Omotosho are power stations that we need to know their capacity as at today. It is when we know their capacity, then other private firms can also come in.” Many stakeholders say issues in power sector are getting worse by the day since after privatisation. They argue that power assets were ceded to cronies of the previous government and was fraught with corruption. It would be recalled that Nigeria’s electricity workers engaged in 24 hour strike on December 11, at the expiration a 21-day ultimatum.  They cited unpaid severance allowances, salaries and pensions owed 50,000 former employees of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) before the country privatised its power sector in 2013, casualisation and outsourcing of workers and half salaries, among other issues.