Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has sworn-in 17 commissioner nominees and six Special Advisers earlier screened and cleared by the State House of Assembly. The newly sworn in commissioners include Mohammed Sani Ibrahim (SAN), Attorney-General/Justice; Mr. Idris Asiru Asiwaju, Finance, Budget and Economic Planning; Engr. Abubakar Sadiq Ohere, Works and Housing; Mr. David Apeh, Agriculture; Mr. Joseph Baron Okwoli, Transportation; Mr. Daniel O’Neal Ejigbo, Rural Development; Mr. Idris Musa, Youth and Sport Development and Mr. Wemi Jones Ojo, Education, Science and Technology. Others are Mr. Kingsley Olorunfemi Fanwo, Information Communications; Mr. Abubakar Bashir, Mohammed Solid Minerals and Natural Resources; Hon. Isah Idachaba Culture and Tourism; Barr. Abdulsalam Momodu Ozigi, Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs; Mr. Abdulmumin Danga, Water Resources; Dr. Saka Haruna Audu, Health; Hon. Adewale Victor Omofaiye Environment; Hajia Fatima Kabiru Buba, Women Affairs and Social Development and Hon. Gabriel Yunusa Olofu; Commerce and Industry. Others are Moses Okezie, Special Adviser on Research and documentation; Dr Gabriel Alhassan Ottah, Special Adviser on Education, Science and Technology; Hon Haruna Musa Idoko, Special Adviser on Legislative Matters; Barrister Femi Adegboyega, Special Adviser on Legal Matters; Nasir Isah Ohiani, Special Adviser on SDGs; Commodore Jerry Omodara (rtd), Special Adviser on Security. The governor created new ministries of Information and Solid Minerals just as he merged the ministry of finance and Economic Planning with that of Budget to become Ministry of Finance, Budget and Economic Planning. The governor while swearing in the appointees at the Government House, Lokoja, warned them against “indulging in sensationalism”, warning that anyone that does that would be fired. “To the new appointees, you were found in character and competence and for the returning ones, it shows you have performed excellently in your first appointment”, he said. He charged the new appointment to serve with sincerity purpose and with the fear of God. He said, “Governance is all about the people and government exists for them. As high ranking appointees, you must open your doors to your people. Reach out, be accessible, approachable and serve the people with humility. “I congratulate those of you who made it on Monday as commissioners-designate. If you are new to the appointment, it is because we found you worthy in learning, but above all in character. “If you were with us in the first term, we reappointed you because you proved worthy of a second chance but also because the exigencies of time and politics, especially the zoning formula applicable in your various constituencies, permitted it. “There are some of your former colleagues who also deserve this second chance but the circumstances were not as accommodating as in your cases, so be humble”. Bello said the newly inaugurated commissioners would form the ‘nucleus’ of his government. He continued: “You will join me and the Deputy Governor to form the next Cabinet along with the Secretary to the State Government and other aides we may wish to receive into the Kogi State Executive Council from time to time. “In a short, while we will arrange a formal induction to familiarise you with our philosophy of governance and our roadmap. I will therefore limit my words to you now to an informal charge on how to operate in our New Direction Administration as we move to the Next Level to Do More”. The governor tasked the appointees to be open to scrutiny and be transparent in their dealings. 