The director general of the Nigerian Meteorological Agency, (NiMet), Professor Sani Abubakar Mashi has announced that the new National Meteorological Training Institute in Katsina, was established to train Nigerians in Meteorology at Ordinary National Diploma (OND) and Higher National Diploma, HND programmes. Speaking at a press briefing on the forthcoming 2020 seasonal rainfall prediction, yesterday, the DG said “In July 2017, the Nigerian Meteorological Agency acquired the ISO 9001:2015 for Aeronautical Meteorological Services delivery thereby becoming the first meteorological organisation in Africa to achieve this feat.    “In August 2019, we also acquired the ISO 29990:2010 for training services at the Regional Training Centre, Lagos, and the first again in Africa. On this, NiMet’s Meteorological Institution is the only Institution in Africa and one of the seven in the world to have achieved this ISO certification. “In addition to the WMO Regional Training Centre, NiMet is operating, we have also established a new National Meteorological Training Institute in Katsina, where we shall be training Nigerians in Meteorology at OND and HND levels,” he said. Speaking further on some of the activities of NiMET, the DG said, “It is no longer news that due to our statutory mandate, we are at the vanguard of all meteorological/climatological issues as far as Nigeria is concern – a role we have demonstrated capacity in handling in consonant with the requirements of the World Meteorological Organisation, WMO. “When I took over the reins of leadership of this great agency, I discovered that amongst other personnel challenges, the Agency fell short of the requirement of WMO as regards the number of meteorological stations. Of course, this was so because of the paucity of funds despite the federal government continuous support of the agency, for which we remain grateful. “To stem this tide, we had to devise and implement a solution; we decided to partner with tertiary institutions in the country. This synergy, by way of a Memorandum of Understanding, birthed upgrades and in some instances, outright installation of new meteorological equipment.