The acting Customs Area controller (CAC), Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone A Compt. Usman Yahaya has intercepted 1,500 units of 25 litres of Automotive Gas Oil (AGO) also known as Diesel worth N8.4 million set to be smuggled to Benin Republic. In a press statement made available to LEADERSHIP by the command’s public relations officer, Jerry Attah, 1,185 bags of foreign parboiled rice worth N24 million were also seized by the unit. He noted that the contrabands were intercepted between the first week of resumption of the acting comptroller, Compt. Usman. “Barely one week in office, his quest for outstanding performance using credible intelligence have begun to yield positive results with the interception of 2,065 jerry cans of vegetable oil 25liters each, 1,185 bags of 50kg foreign parboiled rice, 1500 Jerry cans (25lts) of diesel, with a duty paid value of N67.4 million from January 7th-14th, 2020 along different unapproved routes within our areas of coverage. “This feat is coming as a result of series of meetings held with our sectional heads, team/patrol leaders where he unveiled the management’s mandate bestowed on him which includes blockage of all revenue leakages, trade facilitation and intensification of anti-smuggling operations at various entry points of entry which include Seaports, land borders, and Airport within our areas of jurisdiction in the south west zone. Attah in the press statement said that the controller warned smugglers to change for DC Yahaya warned smugglers and ‘would be’ of the danger that lies ahead for them if they do not engage in legitimate trade, as some have started counting their losses. “You will agree with me that the fight against smuggling can only be won if all hands are on deck,” he said, while calling on all the members of the media and the general public to support the fight against smuggling by providing necessary intelligence that could assist the service in reducing smuggling to its barest minimum. Attah in the statement, said the redeployment of Yahaya was part of the comptroller- general’s strategies to re-jig and reposition the Service for greater efficiency and effectiveness especially in the areas of revenue generation, trade facilitation as well as combating smuggling. He said, “DC Usman Yahaya is a quintessential and an enforcement guru who hitherto was the Coordinator of Strike Force, Zone ‘A’, before he was posted to FOU ‘A’ as the Acting Controller. “He took over on Tuesday January 7, 2020, from Comptroller Aliyu Mohammed, who was elevated based on his record to a new assignment as the Acting Sector 4 Commander of Border Drill Operations code named Ex-Swift Response. “The assumption of office by Usman Yahaya at FOU ‘A’, naturally, has sent panic to all smugglers and non-compliant traders knowing very well his antecedents as an Enforcement Czar. “Ag. Comptroller Yahaya thanked the Comptroller General of Customs Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd) and the entire Management Team of the Nigeria Customs Service for considering him worthy and assured he will work assiduously with all officers to justify the confidence reposed on him.”