The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has distributed relief materials worth millions of naira to victims of flood disaster that occurred in Idanre, in Idanre Local Government Area of Ondo State Some of the materials distributed to the victims of flood included, cements, iron sheet, food items, matrass. The Director-General of NEMA, Mr Mustapha Maihaja who led the Federal Government delegation to Akure, the StAte capital said disaster management was necessary to ensure lives and properties of citizens were secured. Maihaja, who was represented by the Director of Ekiti perations, in charge of Osun, Ondo and Ekiti, Mr Olusegun Afolayan said the the relief materials were to cushion the effect on the affected persons. The D-G said NEMA was to manage disaster in all its ramifications in the country through collaborative effort of other relevant stakeholders towards efficient and effective disaster prevention, preparedness, mitigation, response and recovery. He said his mission in the state centred on early warning system,public enlightenment and advocacy on Disaster Risk Reduction Policy (DRR). Maihaja urged the state government to fast track the establishment of a fully functional and funded State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) backed by relevant provisions. “Early Warning System, Coordination, Collaboration, political will and manpower are the essential components of Disaster Risk Reduction Policy (DRR). “It is therefore everybody’s business to ensure that we build a culture of community resilience for a sustainable development in our society by regularly engaging in policies, strategies, and programmes that will mitigates against both Natural hazard and Man-made induce disasters,” he said. The Deputy Governor of Ondo State,Hon. Agboola Ajayi who received the materials on behalf of the government said it was not possible to give the afftected victims everything they had lost, but the relief materials would serve as serve as succour. Ajayi said the state government would still give cash to the victims in order to alleviate the suffering of the afftected victims. The deputy governor urged the affected persons to see the materials the federal government gave them as parliative ones. Ade Adegboro, one of the affected victims thanked the state government on behalf of the affected victims.