By Anthony Ada Abraham, Although a beauty specialist, pretty Nollywood actress, Sharon Okpamen AKA Okpamen Enorese has clearly stated her views of cosmetic surgery. “Everybody has a choice, but I don’t subscribe to it. I like what God has endowed me with,” she said in a recent interview. The actor-cum-producer also declared that an actress can have a decent career in the movie world and succeed without any scandal if only she is principled enough to live a decent life. Emphasizing on the importance of decorum by actors and actresses, Sharon Okpamen declared: “To be decent makes you an icon. An actress or any female celebrity should learn to close her legs because men will come in a different form.” Since her entry into Nollywood in 2010,  Okpamen has not looked back. She has produced and featured in several movies including The Great Servant, Take A Fall, Eshikito, Enibokun Nollose, Ovbieze Odehiomwan, Olighi, Efosa and The Housewife among others. She had been a devout filmmaker despite being an enterprising beauty entrepreneur and a talented musician. “The reason I stick to filmmaking,” she explained, “is because I want to contribute to the society by visual, visual messages run faster than written.” After almost decade of active contribution to filmmaking in Nigeria as an actress-cum-producer, Okpamen Enorese efforts have been applauded by fans and stakeholders in the make-believe industry as she was honoured with some prestigious recognition and award. “Among other accolades, I have won J-Drims Moving Pictures ‘ Best Producer of 2017 with the movie Olighi, Best Lead Character 2018 of the High Combination Entertainment award and this year, now, I have been honoured with the Icons Award 2019  for Beauty Influencer by Edisa Award,” she said. Sharon Okpamen, an Edo-born filmmaker, since starting her production company, Sharonny Production Enterprise in 2015, has been as prolific as to produce more than 12 films. She has also expanded her entrepreneurship into beauty and fashion business where she is the CEO of Sharonny Glamour World, a business concerns that deals in human hair, clothes and beauty accessories. 