Obinna Ogbonnaya, Abakaliki The Ebonyi State Governor, Chief David Umahi has assented into law the 2021 appropriation bill, presented to the State House of Assembly for consideration. Umahi had on 15th day of December 2020, presented 122,852,045,222.49bn appropriation bill to the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, for the 2021 fiscal year. The budget tagged, “Budget of Stabilization and Consolidation in a Recession had Education and Health having the highest budgetary provision.” The Governor while assenting the bill, commended the House for the speedy passage of bill. “Thank you for this budget. People may not know why our budget is passed within this shortest period. We engage the House off camera during our budget preparation. Moreover, the house is always briefed about our income and expenditures.” “So, it is not difficult for them to ascertain what we are doing on every element of the budget. We are happy that the three arms of government know where we are and where we are going and the challenges of Ebonyi State”.. He described the relationship between the lawmakers and the Executive as very cordial adding that such patriotism and peaceful disposition has made the House to remain the most peaceful House in the country. He also commended the lawmakers for not allowing themselves to be used to destabilize the State, and assured them they would benefit from their patriotism. “This House remains the most peaceful House of Assembly in Nigeria. Let me, with all sense of humility and gratitude to God, thank our State House of Assembly. We may not know the importance of a peaceful House of Assembly.” “We may not know the dangers of making opening for people to destabilize the House and by extension, the state. That’s why I commend majority of you who have stood their ground that the pivot of our progress and development is hinged on the House of Assembly.” “We are grateful, and we will support you to every length. Just know that what you are doing is not a favor to the Governor. Most of you are younger than I am. This standard you have set through your patriotism, you will definitely benefit from it”, the Governor told the lawmakers. In his remarks, the Speaker, Hon Francis Nwifuru, said the appropriation bill passed all the processes of legislative proceedings before its passage into law. He assured that the House would continue to give accelerated attention to anything brought by the Governor for the interest of the development of the state.