In an attempt to guarantee a same-day delivery especially for priority and time-sensitive packages, Dellyman a logistics marketplace has said its target is to reach between 150,000 to 200, 000 daily delivery in the next 48 – 60 months. Speaking yesterday at the partner’s forum the managing director, chief executive officer, Dellyman, Dare Ojo-Bello said, “What we have set out to do with Dellyman is to confront the challenges in the last mile logistics industry head-on by guaranteeing same-day delivery for anyone wishing to move packages in Nigeria and across the African continent. ”Our target and growth is to deliver 50, 000 to 80, 000 delivery in 18 – 36 months and 10, 00 – 30, 000 delivery per day in the next 12 month.” He noted that the industry has not given the kind of assurances that the customers need to be able to trust last mile providers a bit more. This could be because there are no consumer protection regulations and/or that they are not well enforced. So, there is a problem of trust and that was the first thing that we found According to him, ”Dellyman platform is fully verified, for safety and quality service. We are able to share information with customers about our partnering companies’ abilities and capacity to deliver quality and prompt services. “The Dellyman platform ensures the entire process of pickup and delivery is transparent with complete traceability. In the sense, a customer is able to see the entire delivery journey from sender to receiver of the package. “Our technology solution allows the delivery companies both their drivers/riders interact with each delivery order as well as the sender and receiver of the package from pickup to delivery. He also said The Dellyman aggregation model speaks to the issue of capacity. By aggregating logistics assets into a single market place, we can better guarantee availability of assets to customers seeking delivery of packages on our platform. When customers initiate a delivery order, we match them first with delivery companies with assets closest to the pickup location to reduce pickup time. Additionally, we provide data such as number of completed deliveries, distance of the closest rider or driver to pick up, social proof Today customers bargain delivery prices with service providers. With the proliferation of logistics companies in a market with no barrier to entry and poor regulation, this sometimes can be to the advantage of the customers. Using the Dellyman platform integrated with eCommerce, orders placed by customers trigger a pickup from vendor directly to the customer. The Dellyman platform immediately locates logistics providers closest to vendor location to reduce pickup time. Needless to say, the pooled assets on the platform ensures we find service providers at all times so that same day delivery is guaranteed