By Sunday Isuwa, Abuja The minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Ali Pantami,
has said digitilisation of government processes and procedures will
eliminate corruption and encourage transparency in the country. Pantami stated this at a National Seminar on Anti-corruption
organised by the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) tagged: Fighting
Corruption for Socio-Economic Development in Nigeria. According to the minister, corruption hinders development adding that
if they complete the process of digitising government documents, there
will be no room for corruption. The minister who was represented by director general (DG), National
Information Technology Development Agency (DITDA), Mallam Kashifu
Inuwa Abdullahi said the present administration is determined to fight
corruption. “The ministry is working hard to end corruption in Nigeria. When
government processes is digitised, no one will do things at his
discretion because every transaction will be open,” the minister said. According to him, “The digitilisation of government documents will
democratized government service delivery. When we address this, we
will eliminate corruption and ensure accountability,” the minister
said. The Chairman of the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), Prof Isah Mohammed
said the programme was the first since establishment of the
organization. He said official and public corruption is the reason for underdevelopment not only in Nigeria, but around the globe. He said CCB served as the data base for all forms regarding declaration of assets adding that for them to excel, all it activities must be carried out based on it’s mandates as enshrined in the
constitution. He said anyone holding public office should do it in public trust adding that there are things public officers are not expected to do and that he said, is corruption. A professor in the faculty of Law, Bayero University and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mamman Lawal Yusufari, while speaking, said corruption is doing damage to the country. According to him, the money that have been stolen in Nigeria is much more than $500 billion dollars adding that people that are waiting to steal are much more than the people stealing. “And if nothing is done urgently, the future is break,” the professor added. Also, a professor of political science and former Vice Chancellor, Adekunle Ajasin University, Ondo state, Prof Olufemi Mimiko, disclosed that the pattern of the Nigerian state breeds corruption. According to him, the pattern also made it difficult for the corrupt persons to be monitored thereby making corruption to thrive. He said for the corruption fight to be effective, preventive mechanism
like digitilisation of the government processes is important. “Digitilisation of government processes will help fight corruption. Electronic based monitoring will help,” he added. Speaking, the representative of the Attorney General of the Federation
(AG Juliet Ibekaku- Nwaogwu, said fighting corruption was one of the
pillars of the Buhari’ administration. She said the president will not relent until corruption is fought to a standstill. “We must ensure that public officers declare their assets” Juliet said
adding that with the CAMA law, they are going to setup a data with CAC
to make it easier for the CCB to give out information based on
request.