BY OLUSHOLA BELLO
Ibom Icon Hotel and Golf Resort, one of Nigeria’s leading hospitality brands is assuring guests of an unforgettable experience at the Hotel during this festive season. The hotel which recently had its management handed over to the Icon Hotel Group will from 24th of December 2020 to the 1st of January 2021 entertain guests to a lineup of special activities.
This includes a whole day of Christmas buffet with mouthwatering cuisines comprising local and continental dishes, special carol night featuring cake cutting, Family Picnics at the Resort, Excursions with Packed Lunch, Live Band Performance, Fun Activities for kids as well as various outdoor sports such as metro walks, acrobatics, golfing, bike riding, swimming etc. Ibom Icon Hotel & Golf Resort is located in the safe environment of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State with excellent infrastructure, sitting on 147 hectares of well-maintained landscape amidst pristine palm-tree forest and rivers, one feels immediately relaxed and invigorated. The hotel offers excellent accommodation in 163 rooms and suites on 5-star level, with restaurants and bars. Speaking about the hotel’s offerings, Managing Director Icon Hotels and Resorts Nigeria, Mr. Adetope Kayode has assured guests and visitors alike of an awesome and exciting experience at the hotel, noting that this was part of the new management’s commitment to provide top-notch services to all guests at the onset of its assumption as the hotel’s new managers. He stated that “activities such as the special Christmas Carol Night and a whole day Buffet were created to provide guests and visitors with the desired atmosphere of merriment. It was also fashioned as one of the hotel’s strategic decisions to provide a truly world-class hospitality experience this yuletide season”. Kayode also said that customers can also experience the hotel’s exquisite cuisines and exceptional drinks serving at the Ibom Icon Pavilion at Uyo Christmas village. He encouraged visitors coming into state for leisure and looking forward to spending the Christmas holidays with their loved ones to come share their joy and happiness with some excitement at the Ibom Icon Hotel and Golf Resort. Ibom Icon Hotel &Golf Resort serves as a very good holiday destination with excellent services providing visitors with the feeling of a home away from home. The hotel is also an excellent choice for corporate events, conferences, AGM’s and team building sessions.