BY PATIENCE IVIE IHEJIRIKA, Abuja The Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) has approved the inclusion of Wantai HIV 1&2 rapid test kits in the first line (screening) tests of the National HIV testing algorithm. The National Aids/STIs Control Programme (NASCP), FMoH, indicated that the in-country evaluation of the kit comprised of a cross-sectional laboratory-based performance characteristics with specimen sample size of 1,357 obtained from clients from six selected health facilities in the six geopolitical zones. NASCP National Coordinator, Araoye Segilola, explained that specimen were tested using the HIV test kits in the National testing algorithm before they were retrieved to the reference laboratory at the Public Health In-vitro Diagnostic Control Laboratory (PHIVDCL) in Yaba, Lagos. According to him, evaluation results showed the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of the test kit returned 99.6 per cent, 98.9 per cent, and 99.3 per cent, respectively. “Based on the above results, NASCP recommended that the Wantai HIV rapid test kit be included among the first line (screening) tests of the HIV testing algorithm.” Tony Adonye, from the NASCP laboratory who made a presentation on the Wantai HIV Test Kit evaluation confirmed that it passed through a strict evaluation process in order to gain the necessary approval. The Head, Public Health Department, FMoH, Dr. Mildred Ene-Obong, appreciated the Evaluation Technical Working Group and National Laboratory Quality Assurance Team (NALQAT) for the rigorous and transparent evaluation exercise that led to the successful completion of Wantai HIV 1&2 rapid test kit evaluation. Dr. Ene-Obong confirmed that all relevant agencies of government, notably, Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (MLSCN), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA), Nigeria Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), National Blood Transfusion Service (NBTS) and Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) contributed to the success of the evaluation exercise. During the public presentation of the product in Abuja, the President of Global Bridge Healthcare Solutions Ltd, Dr. Abel Ekpunobi, who represented Beijing Wantai Biological Pharmacy Enterprises Co Ltd at the event, expressed optimism that the product will herald unprecedented changes in HIV testing in Nigeria. He solicited the support of all stakeholders to ensure that the product gains universal acceptance as a first-line screening test of the Nigerian HIV testing algorithm. 