By GIDADO IBRAHIM  Nigeria is heavily endowed with an array of mineral resources, big enough to finance thrice the size of its current national budget. However, the sector had been bedeviled by illegal mining activities, where criminals and community lords feast on these critical assets, to the extent that it triggered outbreak of diseases and flooding in some states.  There are countries of the world that depend solely on mining to finance its national budget, while others derive a large chunk of the budget from earnings from mining activities. In the face of dwindling fortune of crude oil in the international market, the current leadership at the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development thinks Nigeria should join the league of countries that finances its government with accruals from mineral resources other than petroleum.  President Muhammadu Buhari had this well thought out when he appointed Olamilekan Adegbite as Minister and Dr Uche Ogah as Minister of State for Mines and Steel. Since his appointment, Dr Uche has continued to demonstrate that success has no two definitions. He has replicated his success in the corporate world in the public sector.  For instance, in order to ensure orderliness in the Mines sector, Dr Ogah stated unambiguously that states, local government areas and communities should not interfere in mining activities in their areas. He said they should rather report any complaint to the ministry or Federal Mines Officer in their states. This is unlike in the past, when individuals and groups held sway.  Dr Ogah is introducing finesse into the working or synergy in the public sector. For instance, while on tour of Calabar, he held a Town Hall meeting with miners and stakeholders. Just so that there is no confusion in mining activities, he used the opportunity to remind stakeholders and miners that mining is still on the exclusive list of the federal government, which has the powers through the ministry of Mines to award mining rights and also stop any mining activity which contravenes the law.  It is clear enough that he reminded state governors that “The 2007 Mining Act identifies mining and its sister, petroleum exploration and exploitation, as revenue-yielding sources through which the federal government shares shares the three tiers of government funds for the payment of salaries, building of roads, provision of healthcare facilities among other developmental activities and as such guard against obstruction and unnecessary interference.  As it is the tradition in the corporate world, Dr Uche Ogah believes that there should be orderliness and the line of control should be clear. This will help restore sanity in the sector. In the past when illegal mining reigned, lead poison broke out in Zamfara State, leading to the death of thousands of children as a result of lung disease. In states like Plateau, bitter lessons were learnt from flooding as a result of illegal mining activities.  The ministry of Mines and Steel under Ogah and his senior minister should also be commended for wading into the controversy surrounding some states exploring the mineral deposits in their states. True leaders see farther than others. Dr Ogah had warned that if communities with mineral deposits are allowed to dictate what happens in mining sites, those from whose soil oil is extracted may also agitate for control. It is sterling leadership for him to have called for a balance between government and the communities in terms of monitoring and provision of approval for mining activities.  In other to create a lifeline for states that are cash-strapped to benefit from the mineral deposit in their states, the federal government through the ministry of Mines and Steel Development has fashioned a modality to partner with willing states so that a conducive atmosphere can be provided for full exploitation of these deposits which can bring a fortune to the states through Value Added Tax, employment generation and community development.  Before his appointment as minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Dr Uchechukwu Ogah, was a leader in the corporate world. An oil magnate, entrepreneur, investor and philanthropist, Ogah has been the president of Master Energy Group, a conglomerate with over 15 subsidiaries and interests across a variety of industries.   Ogah holds an MBA from University of Lagos and he is a fellow of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN ); Fellow, Institute of Brand Management of Nigeria; Fellow, Nigerian Institute of Shipping; Fellow, Employment & Career and member, Chartered Institute of Bankers.  In December 2001, Ogah established Uche Ogah Foundation which aims to promote empowerment, poverty alleviation, and providing education for the less privileged. He had sponsored free medical services in different parts of Nigeria, in addition to building and equipping a number of modern hospitals in his native community, Uturu and other communities in Nigeria. He also partnered with a number of medical centres, including the Hopeville Rehabilitation Centre, to fabricate artificial limbs and calipers for people with disability.  In 2014, Ogah was awarded a national award – the Officer of the Order of the Niger (OON) by the federal government. His other awards and honours include Honorary Doctorate degree in Business Administration by Abia State University in 2013 and Nigerian – American Chamber of Commerce Outstanding Entrepreneur by Nigerian – American Chamber of Commerce.  