Mohamed Salah is unhappy at Liverpool and the Reds are considering cashing in on the Egyptian, according to his former international team-mate Mohamed Aboutrika. Aboutrika says the 28-year-old was particularly frustrated at not being made captain for the recent Champions League tie against FC Midtjylland, though there are apparently other reasons why he is unsettled at Anfield. “I called Salah about his situation at Liverpool and he is upset, but that would never affect his performance on the field,” Aboutrika told beIN Sports. “I know that Salah is not happy in Liverpool, he told me the reasons why he is not happy but they are secrets and I cannot talk about it in public. One of the reasons that made Salah angry was that he was not the captain against Midtjylland.” Salah publicly expressed his frustration at not being given the armband against Midtjylland, telling AS he was “very disappointed” at the decision. The former Roma and Chelsea forward was expecting to be named captain as the most experienced player in the team, but the armband was instead worn by 22-year-old Trent Alexander-Arnold.
Salah was dropped to the bench for Liverpool’s game at Crystal Palace on Saturday, though Reds boss Jurgen Klopp said he was simply giving him a rest after a hectic period of the season. Salah did, however, come off the bench and score a brace in a 7-0 thrashing of Palace. In the same interview Salah also reiterated his admiration for Real Madrid and Barcelona, two clubs regularly linked with a move for the former Basel player.
Aboutrika expects his friend and former team-mate to make the move to one of the Spanish giants someday, believing Liverpool will find a big-money offer too much to resist. “If Salah was a player at Real Madrid or Barcelona, and playing at the same level as Liverpool, he would’ve won the Ballon d’Or, and it is normal for a Spanish newspaper to ask Salah about Real Madrid and Barcelona,” added the 42-year-old.
“In my opinion, Liverpool are considering selling Salah for economic purposes.
“I do not have any influence over Salah’s decisions, he is my friend and brother, and he is smart enough to know what is best for him.”