By NONYE EKWENUGO, Kaduna The Senator representing Kaduna Central District, Uba Sani, has greeted Christians as they celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ, saying it is time to remember the poor and vulnerable in the society. Uba Sani in a statement said Jesus Christ preached love, forgiveness, equity, justice, humility, peace and charity. The senator urged leaders to design and implement more forward looking and impactful social investment programmes to reduce the tensions in the country. The statement explained that, President Muhammadu Buhari administration has initiated commendable social investment programmes aimed at pulling millions of Nigerians out of poverty, saying the key challenge however is how to vigorously and sustainably pursue the programmes to achieve their desired goals and objectives. The statement said: “On the special occasion of Christmas, I send warmest greetings to our Christian brothers and sisters in Nigeria and across the globe. We rejoice with you and pray to the Almighty God to keep and strengthen you as you go through the challenges and difficulties occasioned by the rampaging COVID-19 pandemic” “The usual hustle and bustle associated with great celebrations like Christmas may be missing this time around due to economic challenges, but we must not fail to take full advantage of the opportunity it offers for spiritual renewal and the building of the spirit of oneness and harmony. The birth of Jesus Christ was a momentous event. His missionary work was even more significant and impactful. He preached love, forgiveness, equity, justice, humility, peace and charity. He stood for the poor, weak and vulnerable” Uba Sani added:”I urge us to use the occasion of Christmas to put smiles on the faces of the poor and vulnerable in our midst. The times are indeed very hard. But we must draw from our reservoir of kindness to take care of those less endowed. As leaders we must design and implement more forward looking and impactful social investment programmes to reduce the tensions in our country. The President Muhammadu Buhari Administration has initiated commendable social investment programmes aimed at pulling millions of Nigerians out of poverty. The key challenge however is how to vigorously and sustainably pursue the programmes to achieve their desired goals and objectives. We don’t have the luxury of time. Nigerians are interested in results. And results we must give them” “I also commend our dear Governor, Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai for the people – oriented programmes he is implementing in Kaduna State despite the challenge of insecurity. I urge us to continue to support him and also remember him in prayers. I specially salute our dear Christian brothers and sisters in Kaduna Central Senatorial Zone. You have been wonderful. With your continued support I will work even harder to further uplift our constituency. We pray to the Almighty God to keep us and take us to 2021. By God’s grace, there will be great tidings in 2021” Uba Sani said.