Background My name is Saidetu Akwu Obaje, I am the 5th child of Alhajia Akwu Obaje and Hajia Safiya who are both business persons. I am from Idah local government area of Igala ethnicity. I was born on July 27, 1992, in Idah, Kogi State. My siblings are 13. I had my primary school education at L.E.A Primary School Kubwa, Abuja and then proceeded to Islamic Training Centre Madalla for my secondary school education. I received my tertiary education at Caritas University in Enugu and Institute le Langue in Cotonou. I am into catering and baking with the brand name Nibascakesandchops.  The business My interest in baking started way back in secondary school. My siblings and I would whisk butter-sugar mix for an aunt who is a baker just so we could have a little piece after she’s done baking. I remember how we took turns whisking and also preparing chin-chin. It was a memorable experience for me as it shaped my childhood and aspirations for the future. I started baking as an obligation to my aunt and the passion for it rose in me. This whisking background pushed me to learn baking at a skills and acquisition centre. The first cake I baked was badly burnt and very hard. Due to that disappointment, I left baking for fashion designing. Everything was going smoothly until I was out of town for a course and all my machines were stolen. That incident pushed me back to where I started from. I went back into baking business. Time around, I refused to give up but learnt from every challenge I faced. I kept on practising and eventually enrolled into a catering school in Lagos where I learnt a wide range of baking skills from the different teachers on ground. I start baking officially in April 2017; from baking a friend’s mother’s birthday cake to baking my aunt’s wedding cake and so on. Since then, I have been improving in my business. Today I bake all kinds of cakes:- red velvet cake, chocolate cake, madeira cake, vanilla cake, sponge cake, caramel cake, yoghurt cake, ice cream cake, strawberry cake, banana cake, carrot cake, lemon cake, chiffon cake, marble cake, rich fruit cake, rainbow cake, etc.  Mentor My mum has been my joy and adviser. There’s this word of wisdom in my family my mum used to quote it to me.  “Don’t accept defeat, conquer it.” This quote has been keeping me going.  Relaxation Reading, chatting and watching movies.  Inspiration The smile on my customers face, those who look up to me and those who I look up to.  Challenges As we all know that nothing good comes easy, it takes lots of hard work and courage to create something unique and tasty. My greatest challenge is pleasing my customers’ taste buds and meeting deadlines for all deliveries. Most times I work/bake alone and I’m left with so much to do. I am currently working towards getting more hands. I am a career lady working in a corporate workplace and tomorrow I’m covered in flour trying to create something tasty and beautiful for a client. Multitasking is actually not easy I must say, especially when baking is involved. Life, they say, is all about risk-taking. There are couples of things to regret when taking a risk, but I won’t call it regrets but rather experience.  What are your dreads/fears? Not meeting up expectations, and also not meeting up with the new cake trends.  Achievement I would like to start by giving my greatest gratitude to God almighty,  the creator of heaven and earth and giver of every good gift.  The journey has not been a straight one but am still on track and moving fine.  I started the business in my mother’s kitchen, with the few equipment I could afford. But I have expanded  and even trained some people in the field. They are perfectly fine doing the business now. There is no Joy that equals giving birth to something that adds meaning in other peoples lives.  I’ve baked for weddings,  anniversaries,  birthdays,  house warming, bridal showers, independents cakes, valentine, Christmas, etc. Just name the occasion and we got it covered in beautiful pastries and chops.  Future projection I look forward to a time when my business would reach and touch the lives of people in neighbouring and far away countries. The goal is to always move forward along the line of trending designs.  What differentiates you from your competitors I employ user-centred design when making cakes for clients. The attachment of an item with sentimental value to a client always bring out that smile of satisfaction from them.  How are you able to multitask I am a public servant, a very diligent one. I try to bring this habit into my business. 20% of my clients are my colleagues at work. It is all about the ability to balance up my time, passion and skills.  Word of wisdom The number of women-owned businesses in the country has increased. As time goes by, you can’t begin to count the numbers of success stories. Being a woman from the North, you can be a wife, mother and still have the drive to pursue and develop a skill that will not only benefit you, but earn you the respect of both your husband and the society. Women should never give up on their dreams. It’s easy to give in to self-doubt and back out of challenges. But that’s certainly not the attribute of a strong woman. “Do not be afraid to take up challenging tasks and venture into uncharted territories. There will be times you will have to obey all the rules and miss out on all the fun.” What matters is the success story – the realisation of your goal through sheer determination and persuasion. Women must realise that they engage in other profitable ventures, apart from naturally being caregivers and nurturers. “You cannot pour water from an empty glass; thus they need to be happy first to be able to maintain a happy home for everyone around them; that happiness comes from chasing dreams. I urge women to chase their dreams. Just go for it, Remember that practice makes perfect.  One step at a time is all that matters. Lastly, remember Rome wasn’t built in a day. It takes time and effort to be a successful business woman.