Following the allegations of demand for sex leveled against a lecturer, Olabisi Olaleye of the department of International Relations of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, by a student, Motunrayo Afolayan, authorities of the institution have commenced investigation. The institution said the accused lecturer had been placed on half salary pending the outcome of investigation into the matter by a panel set up by the university. The Social media had been witness traffic in recent time of allegations of demand for sex from students under his watch for mark by the lecture. Speaking with Leadership Newspapers on the allegation, the Public Relations Officer of the University, Abiodun Olarewaju, explained that the management immediately set up a panel to investigate the matter when brought to its notice. Besides, Olanrewaju stated that the University will not leave a stone unturned over the matter adding that even while the report of the panel was still being expected, the management had placed the lecturer on half salary. “The lecturer has appeared before a panel, headed by Prof Yetunde Ajibade, the provost of Post Graduate College. The lecturer had appeared and the student also appeared before the panel. “The panel has not concluded its findings but the lecturer has been placed on half salary pending the submission of report of the panel. “This is a clear signal that OAU management will not condone any act of sexual harassment, sexual intimidation or any other form of intimidation or sexual assault. “That was why when she (the student) lodged complained with the authority, irrespective of the fact that her result had been released, the university still set up the panel to investigate the matter,” Olanrewaju said. Olanrewaju maintained that beside the panel set up on the particular case,  there is an internal mechanism put in place by the University to curb the menace. Motunrayo Afolayan, a 400 level student in the Department of International Relations in the Faculty of Administration of the university had accused Prof. Olabisi Olaleye, a lecturer in the department of intimidation because she refused sexual advances from him. Speaking, the Chairman, Academic Staff Union of University, OAU chapter who claimed that the lecturer is not a member of ASUU insisted that any randy lecturer should be dealt with accordingly. Also, the Chairman of the breakaway Congress of Nigerian University Academics, Niyi Summoning said his union is vehemently against acts that are capable of tarnishing image of lecturers. The two unions pledged their support for thorough investigation to the matter and if found culpable face the music. A cross section of lecturers interviewed on the menace of sex-for-mark, sexual harassment, dating of students and other forms of immoral sexual act condemned perpetrators and recommended punishment for offenders. The lecturers noted that beside internal mechanism to deal with perpetrators by various institutions, there are standardized law against the act. It would be recalled that a lecturer in OAU, Prof. Richard Akindele, of Management Accounting Department, was in December, 2018, sentenced to two years jail term for offences bordering on sexual harassment and falsification of age by a Federal High Court, sitting in Osogbo. Appearing before Justice Maureen Onyetenu, Prof. Akindele, who changed his plea from ‘not guilty’ to guilty, was arraigned by Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission for offences bordering on request for sex from one of her students before passing her, Monica Osagie.