Employers and employees of companies across the country made a N1.4 trillion pension contributions into the pension fund assets between January and December, 2019, LEADERSHIP learnt. This translates to about 14 per cent growth in the pension assets over the period of 12 months. The pension fund assets, as at January 2019, stood at N8.74 trillion and rose to N10.22 trillion in December 2019. The Pension Reforms Act (PRA) 2014 stipulates every employer to contribute 10 per cent of a worker’s salary into the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of an employee, while such worker too will contribute eight per cent of his salary as pension, thereby, making it 18 per cent cumulative pension contribution that must be remitted monthly into the RSA of each worker. Similarly, the pension fund Assets grew to N10.22 trillion, as at December 31, 2019. In a Summary of Pension Fund Assets as at December, 31, 2019, posted on the National Pension Commission (PenCom) website at the weekend, N7.34 trillion translating to 71.87 per cent of the N10.22 trillion was invested in Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) securities which include: FGN bonds; treasury bills; agency bond (NMRC & FMBN); Sukuk and green bonds. The consistent rise in the volume of the nation’s pension Assets, according to LEADERSHIP investigation, was attributable to new pension contributions received, interest from fixed income securities and net realised on equities and mutual fund investments. Investment income, according to LEADERSHIP investigation, was instrumental to the continuous growth in pension fund, despite the fact that government at the state and federal levels are not paying the monthly pension contributions of their workers as and when due. Speaking on the development, the acting director-general, PenCom, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, said, the pension industry is one of the fastest growing industries in the country with the support of the organised private sector and labour. This growth, she said, justifies PenCom’s emphasis on the safety of pension funds as the bedrock of sustaining the CPS, assuring all stakeholders that the pension reform remains steadily on course. ‘These modest milestones notwithstanding, the Commission and Pension Operators are committed to actualizing the growth potentials of the pension industry’, Dahir-Umar, pointed out. 