In this piece, DANJUMA JOSEPH takes a look at how INEC exercised its constitutional power according to  Section 225(a) of the 1999 Constitution, to deregister 74 political parties that have failed to meet the requirements for listing. Following an assessment of the 92 political parties registered prior to the last general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said only 18 political parties survived, including one registered after the elections and another that obtained a court order to avoid deregistration. INEC’s action was a result of the dismal performance of these parties in last year’s general elections and the rerun that came thereafter. Indeed, the recent delisting of political parties from the register of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) was largely expected. The Commission’s chairman, Professor Yakubu Mahmoud  said the affected parties failed to meet the criteria provided for by section 225A of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). In deregistering the 74 political parties, INEC has relied on the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 9) Act, 2017 enacted on May 4, 2017, which amended section 222 of the 1999 Constitution.  The amendment empowers INEC to de-register political parties that fail to win any seat in local and national elections. Meanwhile, INEC’s action has elicited applauds and criticisms for the electoral umpire with some of the parties threatening to challenge the action in court. The issue of deregistration of political parties has however, been a ding dong affair. Prior to the amendment of the 1999 Constitution in 2018, dubbed the Fourth Alteration to the Constitution (Section 225A), INEC was empowered by the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) to deregister parties that do not appear to enjoy the backing of the electorates after general elections. To sanitise the electoral environment, the 8th National Assembly amended the constitution to empower the commission to deregister political parties on the following grounds: breach of any requirements as political parties; failure to win at least 25 per cent of the votes cast in one state in a presidential election or 25 per cent of the votes cast in one local government area in a governorship election; and failure to win at least one ward in a chairmanship election; one seat in a national or state assembly election; or one seat in a councillorship election. It was on this premise that the commission deregistered 39 political parties between 2011 and 2013. But some of the affected parties challenged the power of INEC to deregister them, particularly on the grounds that the Electoral Act is inferior to the constitution, which bestows fundamental rights on all Nigerians, including that of freedom of association. In this case therefore, the court ordered INEC to reinstate the parties. In the current deregistration exercise, 75 parties are affected. But one of them, the Action Peoples Party (APP), filed a suit in court challenging INEC and also obtained an injunction restraining the commission from deregistering it. As a result, the Commission had to suspend action on its deregistration, pending the determination of the substantive case by the court. Prof. Yakubu also said that the new political party registered after the 2019 general elections, the Boot Party (BP), will continue to exist. Reacting to this development, one of the affected political parties, the United Progressives Party (UPP) said it was taken aback by INEC’s action. The National Chairman, Chief Chekwas Okorie said INEC erred by not going according to the dictates of the constitution. In a press statement, he said that INEC officials visited the party’s national secretariat on verification exercise and “confirmed that the UPP has well-appointed national secretariat met all the criteria of functionality. “They commended party as belonging to the first six political party national secretariats in all considerations. Our National Executive Committee members from 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), was on hand with all the verification and identification requirements.” Section 225A states that  “The Independent National Electoral Commission shall have power to de-register a political party for breach of any of the requirements for registration: “Failure to win at least twenty-five percent of votes cast in one State of the Federation in a Presidential election or one Local Government of the State in a Governorship election; “Failure to win at least one ward in the Chairmanship election, one seat in the National or State House of Assembly election or one seat in the Councillorship election.” The Chairman of Inter Parties Advisory Committee, IPAC, in Nasarawa State, Mr. Cletus Ogah, described INEC’s decision as shocking, “especially as it failed to follow due process. He said the electoral umpire ought to have allowed the case against deregistration before the High Court take its due course before taking its decision”. He added that the political parties that ought to have been deregistered first were the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), and the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), for running afoul of the financial regulation of the commission. “While people are clamouring that political parties are too much, I believe the Independent National Electoral Commission should have done the needful. There was a case in the High Court, the commission ought to have waited for the outcome. As much as I am not against the body doing the right thing it should be done legally. I urge Nigerians to join their voices against what the electoral umpire has done. “Part of the criteria set for deregistration is winning an election, yet INEC is not waiting for Edo and Ondo states elections to hold since our elections are staggered. Besides, we have so many states that have not conducted local government elections. “Is INEC preempting that the parties cannot win elections in those states? Moreover, the parties that ought to be deregistered were not. The APC and the PDP ought to have been deregistered because of their inabilities to render their financial expenses for the last general elections. “I am not against them deregistering parties or doing the right thing but they should follow due process. They should have followed the litigation before the High Court to the Supreme Court before taking this decision,” he added. To Alhaji Aliyu Bello, APC secretary in Nasarawa State, “It is better to deregister most of them because they are not productive. You cannot form a political party that cannot produce even ordinary councillor in the entire 774 LGA and you call yourself a political party. “Some of them are there for strictly business and that is why it is easy for them when they sit down, they will just wake up and say they have endorsed the candidate of this or that party meanwhile they don’t even have followers and members. “All they do is to hold their offices in their briefcases and go about collecting money everywhere. For me, I totally agree with it. Let us have viable parties even if it is just two parties. INEC was right, most of the parties exist only in paper.” An APC stakeholder and the zonal chairman of the party in Nasarawa North senatorial zone, Mr. Maiwada Jambo, said  “I support that move. It is in compliance with the provisions of the Nigerian constitution as amended and it will actually save us a lot of stress and a lot of costs. If you look at what it takes INEC to conduct elections as a result of this multiplicity of political parties most of which only exist in name and on paper, there is no point. I strongly believe that we can make do with 10 or less political parties in Nigeria” he said. Barrister Illayasu Favour, the Nasarawa State chairman of Independent Democrats, one of the political parties de-registered by the INEC, said the action of the electoral umpire was illegal as it contravened the provisions of the 1999 Constitution. Barr. Favour, who is also the chairman of the party said that the Constitution is bigger than all organs and agencies of government which INEC is one. According to him, “INEC lied by saying it acted based on Section 225 of the Constitution because that section actually has it that until all elections from the office of the president to that of the councillors in the 774 local governments and area councils are concluded, no political party can be deregistered. The constitutional provisions are very clear, and we are in the electoral process in states organising their council polls to fulfil these provisions. The question now is why would INEC carry out the illegality in contravention of the constitution? “We are appealing to our teeming members and supporters to remain calm, the party is putting all in its disposal in motion to protect and sustain their constitutional rights to belong to a political party of their choice and freedom of association.” Reacting to the shocking development, the National Chairman of the United Progressive Party, UPP, Chief Chekwas Okorie said INEC should be worried about poor voter participation in 2019 elections. “UPP and its leadership were taken aback by the unwarranted deregistration of 74 political parties including our party. INEC Officials visited our National Secretariat on verification exercise where they confirmed that our well-appointed National Secretariat, met all the criteria of functionality. They commended it as belonging to the first six Political Party National Secretariats in all considerations. “Our National Executive Committee Members from 36 States of Nigeria and the FCT were on hand with all the verification and identification requirements. These are the major requirements of the amended Electoral Act for a political party to remain on the Register of Political Parties. The other requirements include winning any election in a general election or winning the Chairman or Councillor in a State Local Government Election etc.” The UPP National Chairman acknowledged that the INEC based its decision on the stipulation that all political parties that failed to win a seat at the last election will be de-registered. But he countered that the Local Government Area [LGA] election have yet to be conducted across the nation – going by the new guidelines legislated in law recently. Alhaji Buba Galadima, who is the National Chairman of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), said, deregistration of political parties by INEC was a rude shock. “The news of the deregistration of 74 political parties by the INEC came to us as a rude shock. Also worrisome was the inclusion of our Party, ACPN, in the list despite being in the Supreme Court with the INEC. “Our Party considered the deregistration of the ACPN in the circumstance as callous, pre-judicial and a contempt of the Supreme Court that is expected to fix a date for the judgement on the matter of being unlawfully excluded from participating in the governorship election of Kogi and Bayelsa States. “The deregistration exercise at this period by INEC of the ACPN is pre-emptive of the outcome of the appeal against it at the Supreme Court. The deregistration was in bad faith and unacceptable to us. INEC must wait for the outcome of the Appeal at the Supreme Court before deregistration of INEC” he said. On his part, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Mr Femi Falana, said the Nigerian constitution empowers the Independent National Electoral Commission to deregister political parties under certain conditions. He, however, said the deregistration of 74 out of the existing 102 political parties by INEC was premature. “In deregistering the 74 political parties, INEC has relied on the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 9) Act, 2017 enacted on May 4, 2017, which amended section 222 of the 1999 Constitution.  The amendment empowers INEC to de-register political parties that fail to win any seat in local and national elections. “INEC must go the whole hog by complying with section 222 of the Constitution which states that political parties that fail to render accounts of their detailed annual statement and analysis of their sources of funds and other assets with similar statements of expenditure. “Section 224 says the programmes and manifestoes of political parties shall conform with the fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy. The programmes and manifestoes of APC and PDP are completely at variance with chapter 2 of the Constitution. So why have there not been implementation?” On his part, a former Vice President, Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Mr Monday Ubani said INEC’s action is a welcome development, because “the political space was saturated by mushroom parties that are not adding value to our democratic system”. He said the long list of parties on ballot papers delayed the announcement of election results during the general elections because the returning officers have to announce the votes scored by each party. “The most annoying is that most of these parties scored 10 or zero votes. It took days before the final results could be announced because the process was cumbersome, given the number of parties that contested. “For a political party that has no electoral value, there is no reason to retain it in the political register. Political parties must contest and win elections if they must be relevant in the system. What is the significance of a political party that cannot win ward election? Striking their names out of the register is good riddance. “What are we doing with 90 political parties? If INEC has the power to register political parties, it should also have the power to deregister. The electoral body should set out guidelines of what qualified a party to be registered and what could lead to deregistration” he said.