The recent outbreak of Lassa fever and the trending Coronavirus in China have placed the federal government in a tight spot and created panic among Nigerians. CHIKA OKEKE writes that several government agencies including EHORECON and private sectors have commenced rescue mission to curtail the spread of the diseases. Environmental health plays a significant role in the prevention and control of diseases as well as for environmental integrity. This falls within the purview of Environmental Health Officers Registration Council of Nigeria (EHORECON), an agency under the federal ministry of environment. The agency is also saddled with the responsibility of improving the standards, in the training of Environmental Health Officers (EHO’s) by adding value to Environmental Health Services (EHS’s). Given the outbreak of Lassa fever that cut across 19 states, the council kick-started initiatives to enforce hygiene in public places across the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The exercise tagged sensitization programme on public health/ hygiene and waste management in selected motorparks and markets in the FCT was flagged off by the agency at Jabi motorpark Abuja and Garki Model market, all in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). The sensitization was also targeted at raising awareness on the Coronavirus outbreak that is currently afflicting China and other African and European countries. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had revealed that as at January 26th, 2020, that a total of 689 suspected cases with 258 confirmed cases were reported with 41 deaths in 19 states of Ondo, Edo, Ebonyi, Enugu, Kano, Borno, Nasarawa, Kogi, Rivers, Abia, Adamawa, Benue, Kaduna, Delta, Taraba, Plateau, Bauchi, Osun and Ogun. Out of the reported cases, three States of Edo, Ondo and Ebonyi recorded the highest prevalent number. Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari had in 2019 declared a state of emergency on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in the country due to the outbreak of communicable diseases. Declaring the exercise open in Garki market, EHORECON’s assistant director, Environmental Health, San Kelvin Okafor noted that sanitation is the cradle of development in every country, saying that it’s the centre of focus for every community or country that wants to develop. He hinted that sanitation stops the pathway of infection, saying that federal government deemed it necessary for Nigerians to re-address societal values, which was why the agency organized the sensitization campaign in public places. According to him, “Poor sanitation will lead to epidemic in the market and it will affect many households and this is why EHORECON is concerned about the hygiene situation and good sanitation in the markets”. Okafor disclosed that since Nigeria is gradually upgrading by exporting foods, that if such foods failed to meet the international standard that it would be rejected at the borders, which would be a minus to the economy. He disclosed that Coronavirus started trending in Wuhan market in China where raw and processed foods are sold, adding that the council wouldn’t want the same experience to be replicated in Nigeria. The assistant director kicked against open defecation, which he described as the major source for transmitting diseases. Okafor frowned at the use of tyres in processing raw meats, as its both harmful to the consumers and environment, with a call on butchers to explore other alternatives of processing meat. In his contribution, the assistant chief, environmental health, San Victor Ebor lamented that Nigeria has the highest number of open defecations worldwide, advising traders to practice good hygiene and save their families, nation and society from outbreak of diseases. He enjoined Nigerians to tie their waste inside cellophane before disposing it inside a covered container, saying that negative activities undertaken in the market would affect the larger society. Lending his voice, another assistant director, environmental health in the agency, San Isah Adamu hinted that there must environmental health office in any market for the Environmental Health Officers (EHO’s) to be held responsible for hygiene issues in the market. Adamu disclosed that EHORECON is targeting stakeholders in various segments and sectors of the economy as well as reaching out to traders and policy makers since hygiene and sanitation is everybody’s business. One of the traders, Mrs Jessica Nwachukwu who sells vegetables at Karu market advised ladies to stop slicing vegetables in the market before washing it to avoid contagious diseases. At the Jabi motorpark Abuja, LEADERSHIP also observed that the park is riddled with all forms of dirts and was highly polluted with urine and human stool despite the availability of public toilets inside the park. San Kelvin Okafor noted that the park is a fertile ground for the transmission of infection in ways popularly called ‘transfer cases’. He enjoined operators to priortise sanitation in the park and end open defecation. Also speaking, the assistant organizing secretary of Nigeria Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), FCT chapter, Mr Lawrence Fadipe requested that AMAC should assist in sanitizing the market since they collect revenue in the market. He appreciated the federal government for the sensitization, adding that the union has been operating in the park for the past 15 years and AMAC had failed to sanitise and develop the park to attract investors. Fadipe added, “The toilet was built and managed by AMAC and after this sensitization exercise, if the operators fail to change, we will force them to change”. San Isah Adamu however assured that EHORECON would provide technical support in collaboration with Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) for the construction of additional toilets inside the park. 