The House of Representatives Committee on Public Accounts has summoned four minsters to appear before and answer questions over allegations of  unaudited accounts by agencies of government under their ministries. This is just as the Committee threatened to issue a warrant of arrest against any minister of chief executive of any agency who refused to respond to the summon. The House is investigating what it described as “deliberate and reckless refusal by non treasury and partially funded agencies to render their audited accounts covering the period from 2014 to 2018.” To this end, the committee has summoned minister of health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, minister of agriculture, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, minister of trade and investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo and minister of state for transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki. Senator Saraki is expected to appear along aide the permanent secretary in the Ministry over the refusal of the director general, Nigeria Maritime and Safety Administration (NIMASA) to appear before the Committee to explain why it has failed to submit the audited report since 2014 to the auditor general of the federation. The Committee Chairman, Hon Wole Oke, said the Management of NIMASAhas refused to make an appearance before the Committee, while also frowning at the failure of the Federal Inland Revenue Service to submit up to date audited accounts to the appropriate quarters. The minister of agriculture on his part is expected to appear along aside all agencies in the Ministry to explain the delay in constituting boards for the agencies which many them said was responsible for the non-submission of their audited accounts. Oke who frowned at the refusal of the agencies to abide by the provisions of the law, said it was not acceptable that for eight years, the Nigeria Institute for International Affairs failed to submit its audited account as required by law. The agency, according to the office of the AGF,  last submitted its audited accounts in 2010, a situation, The chairman said was very embarrassing, saying, “you are the gateway to Nigeria. When you go out there what do you tell your colleagues. For an agency like this, it is very embarrassing.” Meanwhile, the Nigeria Investment Promotion Council disagreed with the Office of the Auditor General on the submission of its audited reports, saying it has evidence that all reports up to 2017 have been submitted, but returned by the Auditor General. Director general of the agency, Yewande Sadiku, told the committee that when she assumed office in 2016, she discovered that the agency had not been audited since 2013 and immediately set in motion machineries to carry out the audit which she said took a while to complete. She explained that the audited report was submitted via a letter dated September 2019, but was returned by the Auditor General who demanded that a soft copy of the report must accompany the submission. The committee was however no impressed by fact that the reports were submitted late and demanded that all former chief executive of the agency should appear alongside the Supervising Minister. Oke warned the management of NIMASA led by a former member of the House, Dakuku Peterside to stop undermining the House, saying this will be the last time the House will be inviting them to appear, failure which, the Committee will be forced to recommend appropriate sanction against them. He said when agencies of government fail to appear before the constitutional committee, it means that they have something to hide and such agency will face the appropriate sanction.