The policy of the present administration to ensure Nigeria produces enough rice to feed its citizens and export to other countries, laudable as it is, may not be realised after all if certain actions are not taken by the government. JOSEPH CHIBUEZE reports. This administration’s policy of producing what you eat and eating what you produce, has been described as one patriotic policy that has the potential of making Nigeria a nation self-sufficient in food production. The government has also tried to match its words with action by its special focus on agriculture using various intervention programmes including the Anchor Borrowers Scheme of the Central Bank of Nigeria, the Rice Revolution programme and partnerships with various foreign agencies who are developing different agricultural value chains including climate resilient crops. The government’s focus and interest on rice is unquestionable, in fact the attention the federal government is giving to rice is like the attention the government gives to football against other sports. But that is understandable, according to the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations, Nigeria is Africa’s leading consumer of rice, one of the largest producers of rice in Africa and simultaneously one of the largest rice importers in the world, in fact, it contributes a large chunk to the nation’s annual food imports. It is reported that Nigeria spends an average of $22 billion (₦7.92 trillion) each year on food imports of which rice alone accounts for about $1.65 billion, or ₦0.59 trillion. Rice is said to generate more income for Nigerian farmers than any other cash crop in the country. With the recent closure of some of the nation’s land borders which automatically put a check on the influx of foreign rice into the country, the government has succeeded in forcing Nigerians to eat the local rice, and indeed they are. In fact recently, the minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, announced to the whole world that Nigeria may begin to export rice in the next two years. But the question is, has the government taken time to check the quality of the local rice in the market? Are Nigerians getting value for their money? LEADERSHIP investigations across some major markets in Abuja, the nation’s capital show that though there appears a slight improvement in the quality, the local rice especially those whose prices are within the reach of the ordinary man, are still generally poor. Mrs Beatrice Agom, a consumer who spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday at Wuse Market in Abuja, confessed to the fact that if she had a choice, she would not buy the local rice. She said the reason is that it is not worth it. According to her, “I spend hours picking stones and even washing and rewashing the rice but at the end of the day, you still discover there is stone in the food you are eating. “Apart from that, it is not even clean. You find many of them with different colours and all sorts of particles in them. Why do I have to go through all that trouble of selecting, washing and so on before I cook?” Reminded that there are very good local rice in the market, she said “Of course I know that, but at what price? They are almost the same price as the foreign rice. If I have money to buy those ones at N22,000, N23,000, per bag, I can as well buy the foreign ones which is just N25,000 and in some cases, N24,000.” Mrs Agom is not alone in that frustration, a young lady who simply identified herself as Agnes, said some of the rice brands have foul odour that makes one want to throw up. According to her, “It is really unfortunate that we come up with policies without putting in place mechanisms and structures that will ensure that what comes out is of world class standard. How can we export this kind of rice to other countries? Or may be the ones they will export they pay extra attention to them, but the ones they sell to us, they do it any how, that is not fair.” Mallam Sai’du Abubakar, a rice seller is a happy man. His joy stems from the fact that he has been making good sales, especially during the festive season. Abubakar whose rice shop is at the popular Wuse market stocks both local and foreign rice but he sells more of the local rice. He said that is because the local rice he stocks are cheap, selling for between N17,000 and N20,000 per bag depending on the quality. He told LEADERSHIP Sunday that he sold more of the N17,000 because it is cheap. While acknowledging that it is not very good because it has some stones and other things inside, he said, “You know how the economy is, people are just managing.” Though some other consumers interviewed agree the quality of most of the local rice is low, they nonetheless support the idea of patronising local brands. They however advised that government should support the farmers as well as the processors to enable them acquire the right equipment for their operations. Madam Abigail, a civil servant, said producing high quality rice is not rocket science. As she puts it, “If our rice processors and millers are serious and care about how people receive their brands in the market, they know what to do. “The problem is that in this country we have this attitude of ‘let’s give it to them, they have no choice’. But I tell you, the world has become a global village, consumers are becoming more powerful. By the time we begin to reject those bad rice in the market, they will sit up. “Government should also set up a monitoring team. You see, it is not just enough to say you have provided farmers with input, you have given them loans, it is also your responsibility to ensure that what they are putting out there in the market are not injurious to the citizens. “So if we are really serious about this rice thing, there should be a standardisation system for the producers, anyone that does not meet that standard should be banned.” Mr Peter Dama is the CEO of Swomen Dama Rice with his mill located at Shendam, Plateau State, he is also the president of Rice Millers Association of Nigeria (RIMAN). He told LEADERSHIP Sunday that Nigerian rice millers and processors have come a long way. While arguing that there are lots of very good locally milled rice in the Nigerian market, he however acknowledged that there are still some knots that need to be tied for the country to arrive at the promised land of producing quality rice that can compete with those imported. According to him, the major challenge of the millers is that of equipment. He said, “To be frank with you, there are some of the locally processed rice that are fantastic, but then you know there are some who do not have the complete set of equipment, they may have de-stoners, but they may not be working effectively because they are sometimes locally fabricated. “Then there is this other one that is not fabricated at all in Nigeria, we call it colour sorter, the colour sorting machines are imported, they are not locally made, they are the ones that select the black ones, the bad ones and put them aside and come out with the very clean and good rice. “Most of these small mills do not have these machines, but the medium scale millers do have them, that is why you see that most of the brands you have in the market are of reasonably good quality. “In my association, we have made a case to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the governor has accepted our proposal and has asked us to go to the Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System For Agriculture Lending (NIRSAL) micro finance bank and seek for some facilities that we can obtain to help our members buy smaller colour sorting machines and de-stoners so they can set up their own integrated mills to help us come out with very clean and quality rice. “As I am talking to you now, we have already submitted the list of our members, over 250 of them, who have indicated interest to secure the facilities to upgrade their mills. But in spite of all the challenges we are having, I think Nigerian millers are trying.” He also accused farmers and paddy dealers of mixing their rice paddy with chaff to increase the weight. “We have also discovered that some farmers and agents instead of bringing you quality rice, they put chaff in the bag in other to increase the weight, which adds to the problem, but we have also devised a way of dealing with them. “If you bring your rice that is full of chaff to my factory for example, I sieve the rice myself and buy only the good one and the bad ones I ask you to pack, I am not paying for that. In fact I insist you clean my premises.” On the high cost of the local rice, Mr Dama said, “The reason the price is high is actually because of the cost of production. Most of these people are in the rural areas where there is no electricity and they have to depend on diesel to power their generators. “I operate in Shendam, Plateau State, even in the local government headquarters there is no light, so I have to depend on generators to power my machines. That is where the cost is coming from. Then you talk of the transportation, the trucks are complaining about diesel and bad roads. So it is the cost of production that has actually led to the high cost of local rice.” For the president of Paddy Rice Dealers Association of Nigeria (PRIDAN), Muhammad Auwal, the quality of local rice is still low because most farmers in the rural areas are still using the traditional method for rice harvesting and processing. According to him this outdated method of processing rice has allowed stones and other foreign materials to be seen in the rice even during sales in the market. Dr Hakeem Ajeigbe, Country Representative, International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the major reason there are so many poor quality rice in the market is that most of the rice processors in Nigeria do not have the right equipment. He explained that this lack of the right equipment and poor infrastructure also contributes to the high cost of the product in the market. “Beyond that, I also discovered that there are those who want to cash in on the government’s interest in rice without making any investments,” he said. “I know of companies here in Kano whose only business is to print rice bags, they don’t have mills. People come to them, buy these beautiful bags and stuff whatever they like inside and sell as local rice. Some people even use those bags to bag foreign rice and pass them off as local rice.” On the way out, Dr Ajeigbe said there is need for more investments in infrastructure. “We need to have more regular power supply and motorable roads so that the processors will not have to depend on diesel to run their machines and the end product can easily be moved to the market,” he said. “There is also the need for closer monitoring from the government. You can’t just allow people to be flooding the market with all kinds of junks, that is going to have serious implications on the rice policy.” RIMAN president, Peter Dama said apart from waiting to get all the right equipment, his association also has a way of making sure its members meet minimum standards in the quality of what they produce. In his words, “We have a system in place that we use to ensure that our members stick to best practices. For instance, in the states, we have a monitoring team that goes round the mills to see what our members are doing to make sure they are meeting up to the standard. “We also encourage our members to go and register with the National Agency for Foods and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) so that they can be certified that what they are doing is of the right standard. “Some are doing that, some are talking of cost. But we said with the Ease of Doing Business Initiative now in Nigeria, government has made things easy. We told them wherever they are having problems they should let us know, so that we can take it up.” He however said the association has no punishment for those found to be producing low quality rice. “What we are doing is education. We are going about educating them, encouraging them to adopt better practices. You know these things don’t happen over-night.” Mr Dama however appealed to the government to do something about infrastructure, especially power and roads. He said these are two critical areas that if addressed other allied industries will spring up, creating more jobs and more wealth for the people and the nation at large. While millers and Nigerians are hoping that the government does something to help rice millers improve the quality of their rice, Nigerians in the Diaspora are also thinking of lending their support. Just recently Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO), Asia Chapter returned to the country to begin a campaign to boost local production of rice with increased and improved mechanisation to raise yields, reduce post-harvest losses and increase income of farmers. President of NIDO, Asia Chapter, Prof Emenike Ejiogu, who spoke at a recent event in Abuja, said the association and its Japanese partners were introducing the modular integrated processor to farmers. He said the machine handles pre-cleaning, hulling and sorting functions. Ejiogu said his organisation was in the country to train operators and rice processors on how to operate the machine. According to him, the association is ready to work with farmers to introduce good rice varieties suitable for the local characteristics and extended production techniques for those varieties. He said the group was determined to support small-scale farmers to acquire rice processing skills and technologies to further strengthen their capacity to improve quality. Under the campaign, NIDO was working with technical experts from Kanryu Industry Limited, Japan; Ino Inc, Japan and Mirai Denchi Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of Mirai Denchi lnc, Japan.