The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) yesterday graduated 2,079 recruits from the Basic Military Training Course 40/2019 who have successfully completed the Course. This is just as it named some of the commissioned newly built and renovated projects after five of its personnel who paid the supreme price in the defence of the country. The fallen heroes are Flight Lieutenant Pereowi Jacob, Corporal Komo MI, Air Craft Man (ACM) Atti AF, Air Craft Man (ACM) Ibrahim M and Air Craft Man (ACM) Nkwuo CS. All these officers died between 2019 and 2020 in various operations aimed at addressing insecurity in the country. ACM Nkwuo and ACM Atti died from gunshot wounds during an operation in Akilibu village in Kaduna village, while Flt Lt Jacob, until his death was an operational pilot of M1-35 helicopter with the task force operation Lafiya Dole, Corporal Kommo died in a parachuting accident. ACM Ibrahim died in an operation in Birnin Gwari, Kaduna state. In his address at the graduation, the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who was the reviewing officer said threats to national security have expanded from traditional inter-state conflicts to non-state actors employing unconventional tactics to destroy aircrafts and other assets in order to gain advantage, stressing that the graduating recruits will help substantially in bridging the wide gap in manpower disposition of the NAF. “This gives credence to the testament to our efforts at repositioning the NAF into a highly professional Service that is appropriately manned and adequately trained to ensure that Nigeria’s territorial integrity and national sovereignty is not undermined or subverted by any individuals or group of individuals”. He stressed that the recruitment drive must be sustained at the current rate to enable the Service function more effectively. He said, the NAF has made deliberate efforts to increase its infrastructure which include the upgrading and provision of additional housing, schools, hospitals, operational and recreational facilities. These efforts have led to the provision of accommodation to over 6,500 families, thus enhancing the welfare of personnel which has in-turn reflected on the quality of their outputs. To the passing out recruits of Basic Military Training Course 40/2019, he said, “You are joining the military at a time when the Armed Forces is involved in several Internal Security of the operations across the Country. Your training has been rigorous and deliberate so as to expose you to the near real-life scenario of what the nation expects from you when deployed for operations.” “Accordingly, you must be resilient, tough and courageous in the performance of your duties at all times. You must embrace the core values of integrity, Service before self and excellence in all you do as essential ingredients of high reputation, which the Service has earned over the years. “You must be innovative and take advantage of the opportunities that will be provided for you through specialization training and re-training to become proficient in your chosen specialties. On our part, we will continue to focus on your welfare by improving/providing relevant facilities within available resources. “In the course of consolidating on the operational gains of the NAF, you would be appropriately deployed to contribute your quota to national security. As such, you would be required to operate within the Rules of Engagement as enumerated in the code of conduct for armed forces personnel involved in internal security operations. You must also respect and protect the innocent and law-abiding civilians whom you are paid to defend. “Let me also reiterate that as personnel of the NAF, you are subject to both military and civil laws. Hence, you must submit yourselves to civil authority in accordance with democratic tenets. You must be vigilant and guard your utterances and conduct at all times”. The CAS further urged them not to allow themselves to be used by any subversive element in the society to compromise national security while urging them to project the good image of the NAF and resist the temptation to harass or engage in physical contacts against any member of the civil populace. “Always remember that our duty as professionals is to protect all Nigerians irrespective of their ethnic, religious or political inclination. Also, you must remain apolitical and not succumb to any inducement or actions that would cause disaffection amongst fellow members of the Armed Forces”.