The chairman of Bwari area council, Hon. John Gabaya and the chairman of Gwagwalada area council, Hon Ademu Mustafa Danze, yesterday presented their 2020 budgets to their legislative chambers. While Gabaya presented the sum of N6, 056,024,123 billion to the Bwari area council legislative chambers, Danze presented a total of N8, 274, 308, 828 to the Gwagwalada area council legislative chambers. Presenting the budget tagged: “Budget of Goal Alignment,” chairman of Bwari area council, Gabaya explained that the budget would focus on works and infrastructure provision in the council, just as he assured that a number of rural roads would also be rehabilitated before the start of the raining season. He added that the ongoing projects such as the Anguwan Madaki road and Ushafa road would be completed, while the renovation offices at the secretariat was also captured in the budget. “The works and infrastructure vote will be closely followed by finance and accounts department which shall be responsible for the generation of a reasonable portion of funds required for the implementation of the council’s budget.” Gabaya further said that the council has concluded plans to embark on revenue generation to compliment the statutory revenue of the council, in order to address major infrastructure deficits and ensure improvement of service and sustainability. Speaking during the presentation of the budget in Gwagwalada yesterday, Danze said that the budget was aimed at actualising his campaign promises to the people, adding that the thrust of the budget was to complete all ongoing projects earlier captured in 2019. The council chairman noted that to encourage continuity, that President Muhammadu Buhari and FCT minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello encouraged them to focus on abandoned projects for speedy completion given that they would impact on the people. Danze, however, expressed hope that the legislative arm would expedite action accordingly to commence implementation as soon it was passed by the legislature in order to enhance speedy payment of minimum wage and other infrastructure. In his remarks, Mr Yunusa Mohammed, the Speaker of Gwagwalada legislative council, commended the chairman for the cordial relationship between the executive and legislature, adding that the legislative would do justice to the proposal as early as possible, by going through the budget and make amendment where necesary.    