The President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Comrade Ayuba Wabba on Tuesday warned state governments against refusal to pay the new national minimum wage. The NLC boss who described African workers as the poorest paid workers in the world, called on governments in Africa to create conducive atmosphere for businesses to thrive. Wabba who made known yesterday while speaking with journalists immediately after the opening of ceremony of the sixth African Social Partners’ Summit, Lagos, claimed the umbrella bodies of both the NLC and Trade Union Congress (TUC) have briefed each state chapter of NLC and TUC to declare industrial action in their respective state if such state refuses to pay the wage. “We have given the guidelines for all our state chapters of both TUC and NLC to declare industrial disharmony with any government that is not willing to pay. The national body can only come with solidarity support to enforce such action because Nigerian workers cannot be always at the receiving end. “Wages in Africa is the poorest around the whole world. For a continent that is endowed with enormous mineral and human resources, this is totally unacceptable. It is sad that while other regions have deservedly elevated the wage discourse to decent and living wages, many African governments and employers still see wage as some sort of as lottery for workers. Workers all over Africa demand for wage justice.” Wabba added, “we appreciate our social partners in Nigeria for facilitating a new national minimum wage of N30,000 for Nigerian workers. We urge social partners all over the continent to take seriously the issue of wage justice. In a continent where the periodic review of national minimum wage has become the mother of all struggles, we must question our commitment to truly inspiring economic growth and creating the much-needed jobs. “In order to create sustainable jobs for Africa’ teaming youth, African governments must create the enabling environment for businesses to thrive by provision of accessible roads, electricity which is critical for industrialisation.” 