Buildings, cars and other valuables were Saturday destroyed as substance suspected to be explosives exploded at the Ekiti state old government Secretariat in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. It was gathered that, the explosion, which caused panic among the residents of the state occurred around 7.05am at the Ordinance Explosive Disposal Department (EoD) of the Ekiti police command located within the premises of the secretariat popularly called old governor’s office Apart from the old government secretariat located at Oke Ori Omi area of the Ado Ekiti metropolis, where the Ministry of local government and chieftaincy affairs is situated, buildings located as far as over three kilometres away were from the scene were shook to their foundations which made the people to panic . The sound effects of the explosion also reverberated to O!kesa,Okeyinmi, Irona and Ilawe road and several other parts of the town. A bungalow at the EoD office was reduced to rubbles while the adjoining offices that housed the office of the Nigerian Union of journalists, Correspondents’ chapel, Ekiti chapter was badly affected . All the offices, business centres around the area were affected, with their Louvre blades and glasses shattered to pieces while the asbestos and polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) ceilings, doors and windscreen of vehicles parked around the offices were forcefully removed and scattered . No casualty was however, recorded The Police Commissioner in state Mr Asuquo Amba and officers of the anti bomb squad were still removing some of the explosive materials in the area around 10.00am. Governor Kayode Fayemi and his deputy Governor, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, also visited the scene of the explosion. Fayemi,while speaking on the incident said the EoD office shouldn’t have been located in the area, saying : “it ought to be in a far distance. Addressing journalists at the scenee of the bomb blast, Amba said that he suspected that the explosion was caused by counter terrorism accessories kept in office. He said: ” Let my men from anti bomb department check around. Officers of the anti bomb are combing the place as you can see. “This is the office where they keep detonation accessories. The explosion must have been caused by equipment kept in their stock house. “The area has been cordoned off. We are going to devise means of ensuring Improvement in the stocking of these equipment next time. “We are happy that there is no loss of life, no casualty. Some of these devises are used to detect bomb and to detonate it . Some of them used to detonate on their own and that must have caused the explosion”, Amba stated. The Commissioner for Information, Muyiwa Olumilua , in a statement shortly after the incident , said: “an explosion was reported earlier this morning at the Explosives Ordnance Disposal (EOD) office in Ado Ekiti. “An initial on -the- spot assessment confirms that there are no casualties and the area is secured with no further threats. “Members of the public are advised to go about their normal duties”, the statement said.