The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) feud may take a new twist over the insistence of the former to suspend key opposition lawmakers in the Green Chamber. Indication emerged yesterday that Gbajabiamila, in conjunction with other leaders of the House, are  set to consider a report by the Committee on Ethics to suspend some PDP lawmakers over alleged impersonation and breach of legislative privileges. But the PDP national leadership has issued a stern warning to the speaker against meddling into the internal affairs of the PDP. The caution, according to the PDP national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, is predicated on “Mr Speaker’s reported needless interferences in the choice of the leadership of the PDP Caucus in the House of Representatives, leading to intimidation and threats of sanctions against PDP Caucus leaders led by Hon. Kingsley Chinda.” The PDP reminded Gbajabiamila that it reserves the right to form a parliamentary caucus as well as choose the leaders of its caucus, as obtains in parliaments all over the world and the House under Gbajabiamila, as speaker, cannot be an exception. “The leadership of the House is aware that whereas members from minority parties decided on the minority leadership, a party and its members have the right to form a caucus and select leaders of such caucus accordingly, without interference by the leadership of the House or members of other political parties in the legislature. The PDP also told the leadership of the House that ”our party had directed that the affairs of the opposition party’s caucus be organised and managed by Hon. Kingsley Chinda, Hon. Yakubu Barde, Hon. Chukwuma Onyema, and Hon. Muraina Ajibola. This position has not changed.” Top among those the PDP plans to suspend when the House reconvenes in plenary this week are Chinda, Chukwuma Onyema, Ajibola Muraino, and Barde over alleged impersonation of the PDP leadership in the House. Chinda was the lawmaker formally picked to lead the PDP caucus in the lower chamber, who also serves as the minority leader of the House. However, due to unpredictable change in political calculations, Hon. Ndudi Elumelu, later emerged the House minority leader and was immediately put on indefinite suspension by the PDP national leadership for allegedly sabotaging the party’s choice. Angered by Elumelu’s suspension, the House leadership had severally threatened to sanction Chinda for acting as minority leader against the will of the House. It was learnt on Monday that the report of the Committee set up by the House of Representatives to investigate allegations of insubordination against Chinda has been directed to support its report for consideration to pave way for the suspension. A lawmaker said that the pressure on the committee to submit the report for consideration has become very intense despite a court order that restrained the House from taking any further step on the matter since November 16, 2019. Ahead of the consideration of the report, Chinda, who represents Obio/Akpor Federal Constituency in Rivers State, has expressed shock about the insistence of the leadership on having him and three others suspended. In an interview in Abuja, the lawmaker said: ”I am shocked to hear that this issue is resonating. I don’t think the speaker will concede to suspending us from the House for … Anyway from hindsight and the level of horse-trading in politics and the House in particular, I advise my other three colleagues to brace up for the worst.” According to Chinda, ”If we are suspended via a majority vote in the House, then I pity the parliament and the parliamentarians, because it means no member will have an independent opinion anymore. A bad precedent would have been set. ”Yes, I hear some people say when it’s done, we can go to court and they will frustrate the litigation for the next three years and we will remain outside the parliament but I am not worried about all that,” he added. …As APC Reconstitutes Reconciliation C’ttee In another development, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has replaced the Senate President, Senator Ahmed Lawan, with the party’s former interim national chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, in its reconstituted National Reconciliation Committee. He merelu said that “President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the APC have reviewed the membership of the party’s National Reconciliation Committee.” Senator Lawan, who was the chairman of the initial 10-member peace committee set up last year, was replaced without any explanation. APC national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, in a statement he issued yesterday, said that the committee was mandated to address the grievances of party members across the country and resolve existing conflicts, with a view to fostering oneness, strengthening the party for better governance and ensuring unity of purpose within its fold. The 12-member committee now chaired by Akande has Senator John Enoh as its secretary. Other members are governors of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello and Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, the Senate leader, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, deputy speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Idris Wase, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, Senator Kashim Shettima, Minister of State for Environment, Sharon Ikeazor, Alhaji Nasiru Aliko Koki, Senator Khairat Gwadabe-Abdulrazaq, and Senator Binta Garba. The committee will be inaugurated today at the APC National Secretariat by 3pm.