Speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly, Dr Chiji Collins , on Saturday declared that the 26 legislators have decamped to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Of the 27 lawmakers, only the immediate past deputy speaker, Hon Okey Onyekanma, is of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Speaker Chiji made the disclosure while addressing APC supporters during a rally in support of Governor Hope Uzodinma in Owerri, the Imo State capital. Hundreds of supporters had trooped out to register their presence and support for the emergence of Uzodinma at the supreme court on January 14, 2020. According to him, Imo lawmakers were ready to partner with Senator Uzodinma to succeed as governor, even as he insisted that the decampment were devoid of any inducement. The speaker said, “As at last night, we have 26 lawmakers who have declared for APC, and by next week, I assure you that soon the 27 will all be for APC. All of us are ready to support the governor  because he is ready to turn this state around.” The supreme court had on January 14, 2020 declared Senator Hope Uzodinma as the governor of Imo State, an action that ousted Chief Emeka Ihedioha from office. Supporters of the immediate past governor, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, had on Thursday shut down Owerri to demand for his restoration as governor of Imo State. According to him, within six months under Uzodinma as governor, “Imo state will be transformed because he has direct connection with President Muhamadu Buhari. And we are going to partner fully with the government of Senator Hope Uzodinma.” Earlier, the state chairman of the Actors Guild of Nigeria, Lady Nneoma Uba, said the state would be prosperous under Uzodinma’s watch, adding  that Imo people would not be hungry. While Chief Rex Anunobi said Orlu people assured Uzodinma of solidarity, because they were sure of his ability, character, and connection to improve Imo State. Supreme Court Has Concluded Imo State Matter – Deputy Governor The deputy governor of Imo State, Professor Placid Njoku, has said the verdict of the supreme court has addressed all issues concerning Imo governorship election, saying the matter was totally concluded. Professor Njoku made the disclosure while addressing a mammoth crowd that trooped out in support of Governor Hope Uzodinma on Saturday, in Owerri, the Imo State capital. According to him, the apex court has addressed every issue concerning Imo governorship election, and that every other thing done amounts to nought. He was speaking in reaction to the attempt by the immediate past governor, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, to get the apex court review the verdict that produced Senator Hope Uzodinma as governor of Imo state. Prof Njoku said, “On January 14, the apex court ruled that the truly elected governor is Senator Hope Uzodinma. That day, the God of Imo State spoke and it has finished. If there were any issues, the supreme court jurists have ruled over it and it is settled, that matter is settled. They can come and contest in 2023 to lose again.” Further he said, “The issue has been settled by Imo people and by God. Senator Hope Uzodinma is the governor. He will restore pride to us as a people and a state.” According to the deputy governor, within two weeks, the governor has restored public water supply to the state and electricity to the state civil service secretariat, adding that he would do more in the days to come Okoli Rallies Support For Uzodimma The people of Imo State have been urged to put the past behind them and unite in support of the government of Senator Hope Uzodimma, because his steps  so far  have shown that he has a good vision for the  state and also has the capacity to translate  the vision to prosperity for all Imo people. A business mogul and  estate developer, Chief Don Okoli, who made the call in Owerri at the weekend, also said the need for all Imo people to support the Uzodimma-led government has become more imperative following the release of the details of the supreme court  judgement on the Imo governorship election case which has shown that justice was served on the matter He  urged all the leaders in the state to rally round the governor to move the state  forward as one united entity. Okoli reasoned that from the details of the supreme court judgement, it was clear that Uzodimma won the election, and therefore called on those still feeling aggrieved to bury the hatchet and give their support to the governor. He reminded them that power comes from God, and that since it has pleased God to make Uzodimma the governor of Imo State,  opposing him on zonal sentiments would be futile.