The Governor of Osun State Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola on Thursday inaugurated rent tribunal in the state saying his administration would continue to support the judiciary in its efforts to promote justice, retain and sustain the state’s ranking as the most peaceful state in the country. Oyetola who described justice as fundamental to societal peace and the bedrock of development, assured that the current administration in the state would leave no stone unturned to ensure justice for all. Oyetola who spoke while inaugurating the chairmen and members of the newly-constituted Rent Tribunals in Osogbo had earlier approved the appointment of chairmen and members of Tribunals for the nine federal constituencies in the state last month. The appointment is in accordance with the Residential Accommodation (Rent Control) Law Cap. 144‎ Laws of Osun, 2002, Section 5(1)(a) and (b). Oyetola said the constitution of Rent Tribunals across the state became necessary in view of the need to enhance communal peace and dispensation of justice in landlord/tenant related disputes. The governor expressed confidence that with the constitution of the tribunals in the nine constituencies across the state, peaceful and amicable resolution of rent related issues would be guaranteed. He charged the chairmen and members of the tribunals to discharge their duties diligently with utmost sense of responsibility, integrity, competence and trust. Earlier in his welcome address, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Barrister Olufemi Akande, admonished the appointees to discharge their duties with all sense of loyalty, honesty, and fairness. He called on them to see their appointments as a clarion call to impact positively on the lives of the people, particularly in the propagation and promotion of justice. Speaking on behalf of the newly-inaugurated chairmen and members of the tribunal, the Rent Tribunal Chairman from Ila federal constituency, Mr. Segun Durotolu, thanked the governor for considering them worthy of the appointment, just as he lauded him for doing a good job in the state. 