The acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu and the director-general of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Brig-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, yesterday, spearheaded an anti-corruption walk in various states of the federation. Magu said that the event was organised to enable the citizens know that corruption is one of Nigeria’s greatest problems. He explained that the 10 million-man march against corruption was organised \by the EFCC and other stakeholders to draw public attention to the dangers it posed to national development.. The EFCC boss appreciated the participants at the Abuja rally, saying that the programme was focused on youths to support the commission in the fight against corruption in the country. The minister of Youth and Sports, Sunday Dare, who also participated in the march, explained that the essence of the walk being held on Valentine’s Day was to catch the attention of the youths and to involve them in the campaign. Dare said that the programme was to sensitise them on the need to give maximum support to the EFCC to stop those who want to deny them a better future through graft. The president, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba, expressed worry over the rate of corruption in Nigeria, claiming it had contributed to youth’s unemployment in the country. Wabba said that the issue of corruption had become alarming in almost all the sectors, which according to him, would continue to increase unemployment. While appreciating Magu for organising the programme on the Valentine’s Day which he described as being significant day to youths, Wabba urged the participants to embrace the event for their own good. The minister of Women Affairs, Saudatu Bungudu, said that Nigeria has faced enough embarrassment of reports of corruption in all sectors of the country, hence the time to kill it. Bungudu praised President Muhammadu Buhari and Magu for their efforts to curb corruption through various measures and policies. She used the occasion to challenge women to preach against corruption because they were created with special influence to control not only the home, but aalso the larger society. Also, the speaker of Youth Parliament, Mubarak Mijinyawa, lauded the EFCC chairman for organising the event at the right time to attract the attention of youths and pledged support for the commission. In his speech, Brig-Gen. Ibrahim (NYSC boss) called on corps members to shun corruption and mobilise the people they are staying against corruption to make Nigeria free of the vice. The DG also urged corps members to use their service period to sensitise their host communities on the hazards and negative impacts of corruption on Nigeria. He spoke in Kano during a joint road walk organised by the NYSC in collaboration with the EFCC and the Kano State Anti-corruption Agency. According to him, if the corps members sensitise their host communities, especially in the rural areas it would contribute a lot the fight against the menace. He said: “We have no fewer than 350,000 serving corps members nationwide, if each of them can sensitise his or her host communities, tell them what corruption is all about, many people will get to understand better and also shun it. “Therefore, we are calling on the general public to shun any act of bribery and corruption as it affects our society negatively and tarnishes the image of the country,” he said. The walk, which took place in the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), witnessed large participation of corps members, labour unions, civil society organisations and other respective unions. Magu, who was represented by the head of the Kano Zonal Office of the EFCC, Mr Akinyene Ezima, said that the objective of the walk was to sensitise and mobilise youths to reject the evils of corrupt practices. He said: ”It is also to encourage the youths to be anti-corruption advocates and ambassadors, as well as enlisting them to partner with the EFCC by providing information and actionable intelligence on fraudsters in their localities.” The chairman, Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Agency, Muhyi Magaji, commended the NYSC DG for leading the walk in Kano. He said that the action would encourage youths to have more confidence in supporting the fight against corruption In Kwara State, the anti-corruption walk was held in Ilorin, the state capital, with renewed calls on Nigerians, especially young people, to shun graft or activities capable of stunting national development. The walk was one of the EFCC’s public awareness programmes to draw attention to the dangers of corruption. Governor AbdulRazaq, who arrived at the EFCC office at 7am and joined the walk from the beginning to the end, repeated President Muhammadu Buhari’s refrain that corruption would kill the country if the nation fails to kill the cancer that the governor said was responsible for the slow pace of development. He said: “We have been walking the talk, now we are walking in support of the war (against corruption). The message is very clear: kill corruption or it will kill us all.” His Gombe State counterpart, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, vowed to eradicate corruption and entrench good governance in the state. The governor led the anti-corruption walk as a mark of his commitment towards entrenching good governance and fighting illicit financial flow in the state. Tagged: “Nigerian Youths Walk Against Corruption”, the rally was staged simultaneously nationwide with the aim of enlisting public support for the anti-corruption campaign. Yahaya, alongside his cabinet members, joined officials of the EFCC, the NYSC, Nigerian students and civil society groups in the 4 km long walkin the major streets of Gombe metropolis. In Asaba, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State urged Nigerian youths to be actively involved in the fight against corruption in the country. Okowa made the plea yesterday, while addressing corps members at an anti-corruption rally in Asaba. Speaking after a similar rally which started from the stadium and terminated at Freedom Park in Osogbo, Osun State an official of the EFCC, Mr Seun Oluwakorede said that “the programme is to sensitise the people about corruption.” He said that the youths hold about 70 per cent of the population of this country, adding that’’ when you take a stand against corruption, the whole nation will be moved to do the right thing. Now we are taking a stand against corruption, we are planning and securing our future by this rally.” The NYSC coordinator in Osun State, Mr Ayodele Adegoke, said that over 500 corps members participated in the campaign exercise joined by other youths in the state.