The federal government has concluded arrangements to turn the Abuja-Kano Road to six lanes to ease traffic and enhance the safety of motorists and other Nigerians. Works and Housing minister, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), who disclosed this to State House correspondents, yesterday, said that it was part of the engineering design of the Abuja-Kano Road, which will cost N872 million. Fashola said: “The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing presented a memorandum to appoint a consultant for the engineering design of additional lane for the Abuja-Kano Highway for N867.263 million. The Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved that memo for the work to be executed in five months. “As you know, the Abuja-Kano Road is already under construction.  It was awarded in December 2017. Works started in the middle of 2018. We review that project, giving that that road was built in the early 90s. “With the traffic growing now that we are working there, we consider expanding the carriageway from two lanes each way, making four lanes to three lanes each way, making six lanes. We have to design an additional lane on both sides, 365km each way. “We have to make new design for about 66 bridges across the entire length. So, it’s a consultant that will do that design that was approved today,” he said. FEC also approved a contract of N318 million for the engagement of lead consultant for the forensic audit of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio, said after the FEC meeting presided over by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, said that the lead consultant for the NDDC audit was Olumuyiwa Bashir and Co. Ltd. He recalled that the audit was ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari following the complaints to him by nine governors of the Niger Delta states in October 2019. According to him, the interim management of the NDDC would collaborate with the lead consultant, which is expected to divide the audit into nine lots, one per state, and hire nine forensic auditors to check the books of the commission. The minister was enthusiastic that the federal government would recover huge amounts of money, in local and foreign currencies,  at the end of the exercise. He said that the audit would cover the operations of the NDDC from inception till 2019. During her briefing, the minister of state for Transport, Gbemisola Saraki, said that FEC awarded a contract of N1.48 billion for the purchase of equipment for ship berthing safety at the ports. Other contracts totalling N556 million for the extension of consultancy services in respect of rehabilitation of Tin Can Island Port in Lagos were also approved. Meanwhile, the minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, has said that the federal government has acquired testing reagents and laboratories in Abuja, Lagos, and Irrua in Edo State to check the possible spread of the deadly coronavirus disease in Nigeria. Apart from the laboratories, the preparedness of Nigeria against the disease, which originated in China last December, has been boosted with passive temperature cameras at the major airports in the country. He explained that Nigeria and other African countries have been lucky not to have recorded any coronavirus case, which has also been aided by China’s own exit screening to check the spread of those potentially leaving the country with the disease Ehanire further informed the council that the death rate from Lassa fever has dropped by 50 percent, following efforts of the government and health institutions in the country. Also yesterday, the Senate recognised the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The IMC is headed by Dr. Joy Yimebe Nunieh, was recognised through the Senate Committee on Niger Delta Affairs chaired by Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (Delta North). This is just as the committee supported the planned forensic auditing of the agency by the executive arm of government which stopped the 15-member board of the commission screened and approved by the Senate in November last year. The Senate had in December last year when President Buhari forwarded the 2019 budget of the agency for approval, ordered its committee to accord recognition to the board for that purpose and not an Interim Management Committee. President Buhari in breaking the logjam, wrote a letter to the Senate this year that in view of the forensic auditing of the agency, the IMC would hold sway, pending his re-composition of a new board. In line with the request, the Senate Committee on NDDC led by Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (PDP Delta North) granted audience to the IMC members and considered the N346 billion 2019 budget proposal of the agency. Nwaoboshi, in his remarks at the budget defence session, said: “The Senate supports the ongoing forensic auditing in the NDDC and by extension not against the IMC running the agency. “We are here to consider and approve the agency’s budget for 2019 as forwarded to the Senate by President Muhamnadu Buhari in December last year. “However, in doing that, we shall be guided by policy thrust of the government on budget proposal, implementation and performances,” he said. In line with submissions made by the president on 8th October, 2019 during presentation of the 2020 budget estimates, performance status of projects in previous years, will be strictly considered in giving appropriation to any proposal, he added. The agency, however, ran into trouble waters when the committee demanded for documents on all its emergency projects which could not be provided by the acting managing director, Dr. Nunieh. The committee therefore directed her to make the documents available unfailingly by Tuesday next week, failure, which will lead to the organisation of public hearing on the matter. Apparently rattled by the threat, the NDDC acting boss assured the committee that the documents would be made available on the set date.