A grade 1 Area Court sitting at Karu district of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) has remanded a 35-year-old business man, Jackson Ishiaku in a correctional facility in Keffi, Nasarawa State. Ishiaku, with file number CR/36/2020, was been accused of molesting and assaulting one, Mrs. Christiana Nweke, a female official of the Abuja Electricity Development Company (AEDC) on 27th January, 2020 at Kurudu area of the FCT. Counsel to the complainant, Barr A.A. Adewoye, had told the court that his client, Mrs. Christiana Nweke, of the AEDC Jikwoyi area office, was carrying out her lawful duty with a team of other AEDC officials in the Kurudu axis of the FCT on that faithful day, before she was allegedly obstructed, intimidated and eventually assaulted by Jackson Ishaka, who also allegedly threatened to kill her. Adewoye explained further that suspect, who went into hiding since the incident, was however arrested on Monday February 3, 2020 following the pressure mounted on the police by the AEDC security team to ensure that the culprit was brought to book. According to him, a First Information Report (FIR) signed by Sergeant Agnes Iduh of the Jikwoyi Police headquarters on 4th February 2020, and titled ‘Criminal Force, Assault and Intimidation Contrary to section 267 and 397B of the Penal code law’, the Police stated that on the January 29, 2020 at about 14:00hrs, one Christiana Nweke of AEDC Jikwoyi area office, Abuja went to Divisional Police Headquarters Jikwoyi, to report against one Jackson Ishiaku of Chief Palace, Kurudu in Abuja. Responding, council to accused, Barr. A. U. Ukah, prayed the court for a consideration of his bail application, after Ishiaku, pleaded not guilty to the three count charge against him. However, the prosecuting counsel, Barr. A.A Adewoye, objected to the bail application. After listening to both counsels, Magistrate Ismail Jubrin ordered that the suspect be remanded in correctional custody till February 10, 2020 for the bail application hearing. Meanwhile, hearing of the substantive suit has been fixed for February 25, 2020.