Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal is putting every structure in place towards making Sokoto investors destination, commissioner of finance, Abdussamad Dasuki has said. Dasuki, according to a statement signed by governor Tambuwal’s spokesperson, Muhammad Bello made the disclosure at the weekend during the management retreat organized for the Ministry of finance in Lagos. The finance commissioner who insisted that human capital development, remodeling of the state into an investment destination, and establishment of enduring socio-economic infrastructure and institutions are amongst the governor’s central objectives which has began yield fruits, added that, this explains why they have a management development plan. Dasuki further noted that the proposed N65.7 billion loan to be taken by the state is earmarked for critical projects in agriculture, health, housing, water resources and education, hence would fast track the economic transformation of the state and position Sokoto as a leading economy in Nigeria and Africa. Recall that the state government had announced plans to utilise the loan of N65.7 billion it will raise to embark on massive infrastructural projects and investment in critical projects in agriculture, health, housing, urban renewal projects, construction of roads and bridges as well as education. Unveiling the economic development plan at the management retreat of Sokoto State Ministry of Finance held at the weekend in Lagos, Commissioner for Finance, Hon. Abdussamad Dasuki, said this would be achieved through a multi-faceted approach. “Our efforts to transform the economy by making the environment private sector driven are already yielding many fruits among which include the attraction of the biggest fertilizer blending company in the world to Sokoto and the biggest rice mill by Alhaji Aliko Dangote. “In addition, we are advancing the ease of doing business in the state by making it easier for established business to scale and enabling new ones to spring up,” Dasuki said. The finance commissioner also noted that this would in turn translate to empowering families in the state and the effects would trickle down to everyone. “We have witnessed rapid growth of business enterprises as more organisations now have the capacity to meet more market needs, resulting in increased revenue and a more prosperous economy,” he said. While stressing that the Tambuwal’s administration has commenced payment of the 30,000 naira minimum wage, Dasuki said it had also reformed the Payroll Systems thereby removing ghost workers from the civil service. Speaking further, Dasuki said, “As a government, we believe it is important to invest in the education of our people. It is the greatest investment we can make towards the attainment of a more prosperous future. For this, posterity would be grateful to us. In this light, we have continued the renovation of secondary schools across the state. Already more than 100 secondary schools have been remodeled and renovated. Recently, we completed an ultra-modern secondary school in Gudu LGA, which was previously the only local government in Nigeria with no secondary. “The Tambuwal administration has gone far in a social intervention program in which N4 billion has been set aside for distribution to indigenes of the state to enable them engage in and enhance any business of their choice. ” In that regard, each and every indigene so selected got N 20,000 each. So far, the disbursement has been done in 9 out of the 23 local government areas of the state,”