The director-General of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) Salihu Lukman penultimate Sunday, released a roadmap to peace for the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this piece, ANDREW ESSIEN looks at the issues raised. There is no gain saying the fact that there has been no love lost between the national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and the director-general of the secretariat of governors elected on the party’s platform, the Progressive Governors Forum, Salihu Lukman. Lukman has, in recent time, become increasingly critical of the leadership style of Comrade Oshiomhole so much that analysts aver that the PGF officer may be singing the tunes of the governors of the party, some who are also aggrieved owing to some actions or inactions of the party’s leadership under the current national chairman. Expectedly, interest groups have also faulted the DG of PGF for, in their submission, not exhausting internal mechanisms of the party in resolving internal crisis for which Lukman has insisted that the platform has never been created for that process. Whether this is the case or not is anyone’s guess. In August 2019, the DG made national headline when a memo leaked to the press where he blamed National Chairman for the diminishing fortunes of the party. In a four-page letter to Oshiomhole entitled: “APC: Appeal for Reconciliation,” Lukman said as a loyal party member, he had difficulty “reconciling the absence of meetings of superior organs given all the challenges the party is going through, warranting the suspension of three serving governors (two of them now senators) and two members of NWC.” He lamented APC’s loss of Zamfara, Bauchi and some states in the 2019 polls and expressed fears that the trend could recur in the forthcoming Kogi and Bayelsa governorship polls. Assessing Oshiomhole’s leadership, Lukman, who also tackled the national chairman on July 19, 2019, said: “My distant observation is that there is hardly any difference between your approach in managing the party and the way Chief (John Odigie) Oyegun had managed it during his tenure. Instead, things have really got worse and painfully, it would appear, you are in denial of this reality. “Kindly recall that sometime in June this year, I sent what I called a private memo on the issue of reported disciplinary actions against Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State by the NWC. “Of course, the memo noted that before the 2019 elections, the NWC had similarly suspended former Governors Rochas Okorocha and lbikunle Amosun of Imo and Ogun states respectively. Between June and now, Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, APC Deputy National Chairman, North and Alhaji Inuwa Abdulkadir, APC Vice National Chairman, North West had also been similarly suspended. “It will appear that the leadership problems facing the party are getting deeper and in the circumstances the business of building the party will be sacrificed. “We had challenges that deprived our party the opportunity to contest 2019 election in Rivers State, stripped our party of electoral victory in Zamfara State, engendered highest level of leadership animosities in Imo, Ogun, Adamawa, Bauchi, Kano, Ondo, Oyo, etc. “Today, with Kogi and Bayelsa elections approaching, similar leadership animosities are defining political life of the party in those states. “Since emerging as the national chairman of our party, I have had cause to review decisions and actions you had taken as the National Chairman and often I have difficulty reconciling many of the decisions and actions you took with the leadership standards you upheld. “It is a painful reality that we have found ourselves in situation of near stalemate in many states under your leadership. Embarrassingly, our leaders, including your very self, appear to be stubbornly inconsiderate of other options of resolving these challenges. “If the electoral loss of Oyo, Imo, Zamfara, Adamawa and Bauchi is not a wakeup call to the dangers that lie ahead, what could have been. Is it that our leaders are indifferent to the possible return of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP? “In all my years of association with you, I never imagine that one day you will be so comfortable as to be indifferent to challenges that could threaten our national democratic development. “Sir, there is the need to urgently refocus our party and all our leaders on the most critical political issue in the country, which is about reconciling our leaders at all levels.” He wrote. It was therefore not surprising to political pundits when the Director-General of the Progressive Governors’Forum (PGF), Salihu Moh. Lukman, again charged the National Chairman to either convene the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the party or resign immediately. The PGF Director-General’s was predicated  on the heel of the multiple internal crisis rocking the party in the states across the country, the most current of which is the worsening power tussle between Oshiomhole and his successor as governor of Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki, which Lukman described as embarrassing to the ruling party. Lukman, in a statement he personally authored, titled ‘APC and our Inconceivable Organisational Challenges: Urgent Call to our Leaders’ and made available to journalists in Abuja on Wednesday, said the National Working Committee (NWC), an administrative organ of the party, including just a select members of the NEC and is tasked with the responsibility of executing decisions of the NEC, had hijacked the responsibilities of the apex decision-making organ of the party, the NEC, which he said seemed to have been suspended. According to him, many of the crisis facing the party in the state, many of which had cost the party some states hitherto considered as its stronghold states, are those that the NEC or National Caucus meeting of the party are designed to sort out. He reminded Oshiomhole that his constituency, as National Chairman of the party goes beyond his home state of Edo, but the whole of the country, charging him to follow the party’s constitution by convening the NEC, face the party in the process of resolving the myriad of crises facing it or simply accept that he is not capable of leading the party any further and resign his office as National Chairman. “Side by side with the news of the vote of no confidence was also the discomforting report of the Federal High Court judgement in Abuja disqualifying Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo as our Deputy Governorship candidate for the November 16, 2019 Bayelsa election. While expecting that every necessary step will be taken to vacate the judgement, it is very depressing for every committed party member to be subjected to such ignominious reality, which only remind us of our reckless conducts in states like Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa, which chiefly gave away electoral victories to PDP. “Instead of focusing on working to win elections, we are busy undermining ourselves. All these are ominous signs that we are about to re-enact the Zamfara, Rivers, Bauchi and Adamawa experiences in Bayelsa. It is Bayelsa today, Anambra, Edo and Ondo are being setup for similar experiences. Somehow, unfortunately, the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party, which is the organ vested with the statutory responsibility of responding to all these challenges appear to be suspended. The last time it met was August 2018. In its place, the National Working Committee (NWC), which is an administrative organ with the responsibility of implementing decisions of NEC and other higher organs seems to have usurped the powers of NEC. “Why should all these be allowed to happen? Why is it impossible to convene a NEC or even National Caucus meetings, which are supposed to hold every quarter to resolve all these issues? Why should the NWC under Comrade Oshiomhole continue to imagine that it can conduct affairs of the party without mandatory meetings of party organs? What legacy is Comrade Oshiomhole hoping to achieve as a National Chairman by running the party in a way that suggests almost zero commitment to issues of party development? “It is very painful for many of us who have had the privilege of being mentored by Comrade Oshiomhole to see him being devalued to a local factional leader from a very high pedestal of an illustrious national leader. As National Chairman, Comrade Oshiomhole hardly appreciate that he now has a national constituency and not just a state constituency, which may have been responsible for his apparent intemperance in the handling of matters affecting Edo State. I wish he paid similar attention to handling of issues affecting Rivers and Zamfara states during the 2019 elections. “In the current circumstance, nothing short of a NEC or National Caucus meeting of the party can resolve all our increasing organisational challenges as a party. It is either Comrade Oshiomhole respect the provision of party constitution and convene superior organ meeting to deliberate on all our challenges, or he should just accept his inability to manage the party and simply resign. “Our national leaders must rise to the challenge facing us as a party and take all necessary measures to convene superior organ meetings to begin to resolve all our challenges as a party. The current public disgrace must end”, he said. Interestingly, Comrade Oshiomhole and his aides have remained deafeningly silent even as he went on to win the Kogi and Bayelsa gubernatorial elections. With the reconstitution of the Bisi Akande-led National Reconciliation Committee, Lukman has again penned what he says is the path to peace in the crisis-ridden ruling party. In a memo to the Reconciliation Committee, the governors cautioned the APC National Working Committee (NWC) against tyranny and other leaders of the party against unguarded utterances. The DG again took a swipe at the activities of the NWC led by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and called for fresh registration of members and recall of suspended national leaders for the party to move forward even as he described the NWC members as “incompetent”, adding that they were like efficient Trojan horse that opens the backdoor for electoral victory to political opponents.” Lukman, in an article titled: “Chief Bisi Akande APC National Reconciliation Committee: Our Leaders Should Unite to Rebuild the Party, said that the reason for which the party brought in the Oshiomhole-led NWC against Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led NWC had been defeated. He condemned the leadership style of Oshiomhole, for being allegedly antagonistic to criticisms. According to the DG of the Progressive Governors’ Forum, members of the Oshiomhole-led NWC have constituted themselves as the “alpha and omega of the party.” Lukman claimed that no organ of the APC is at present working except the pseudo NWC. Tracing the activities and failure of APC since 2015, he said: „Part of the components of the contributions of the APC to Nigeria’s democracy include that the problem of imposition of candidates in elections were minimised considerably within the APC, at least in the 2015 elections. Unfortunately, that is where our problems started. Contestants in party primary elections failed to develop the needed sportsmanship to accept the results. The old habits of aspiring candidates taking over leadership structures of the party and through that therefore predetermining results of the primary elections remained the case. To counter the DG’s position, faction of the APC in Edo state has threatened to sue the Director General of the Progressive Governors Forum for making ‘malicious statement’ against the national chairman of the party even as the faction have him seven days to withdraw a statement termed ‘malicious’ against the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee (NWC). The forum also warned the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to stop making inflammatory public statement capable of putting the party in the bad light. But reacting through a statement signed in Abuja by the chairman and secretary of the APC Edo state stakeholders forum, Chief Francis Inegbeneki and Alhaji Sulaiman Bagudu, described Lukman’s memo as “tantamount to arrant nonsense, he has, as a matter of fact, ceased being the DG of the Progressives Governors’ Forum from the day he decided to market his soul to those who were afraid of the on-going reforms in the APC being spearheaded by the Oshiomhole -led NWC.” The statement also accused the PGF director general of turning himself to a PDP man, masquerading as an associate of APC governors. “For so long, we have kept quiet to his tantrums against the APC National Chair, thinking that himself and his co-travelers, including Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, would turn a new leaf but they have persisted in their evil plot against Comrade Oshiomhole. “Comrade Oshiomhole is not in the same category with small-minded men, like Lukman, who are making frantic efforts to please their pay masters. “We are aware of his nocturnal visits to Edo Government House where he leaves with Ghana-Must-Go bags. “If his memo is not full of mischief and motivated by compromised conscience that was n ot out to promote reconciliation, he should not have sent it to the press before making it available to the Committee members. “The point we make is that a memo he had prepared for the Bisi Akande Committee should not have got to the press before members of the Committee. “To appreciate how mischievous the so-called Lukman is, he delved into Edo State politics to appease his pay master when he claimed the National Chairman is surrounded by sycophants in Edo as result of which he (National Chairman) does not take advice. “If he does not know, the biggest sycophants around Oshiomhole were his (Lukman’s) friends-Obaseki and Philip Shaibu-who are his links to Edo State Government House. These two people deceived Oshiomhole into giving them power and today they want to kill all the leaders in Edo due to their desperation for a second term. “We advise Lukman to continue to cultivate his new farm in Obaseki and Shaibu but he should stop insulting Oshiomhole or APC leaders because they are not on the same political pedestal. “If he wants to be the National Chairman of the APC, he should wait for the next national convention to contest. But he should first test his popularity in his home state by running for councillorship position and see if he will win.” The Edo APC members, however, called on the Chairman of the APC Governors’ Forum, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, to call his DG to order “unless he is the one fueling the insults against Comrade Oshiomhole. “It is even an insult on the governors to see their national chairman being attacked persistently by their DG. It is uncalled for and unacceptable to us. In the final analysis cooler heads must prevail and the needed adjustments made if the party is to experience true reconciliation and move forward.