Recently, the minister of Transportation,  spoke to select journalists on the $195 million maritime security contract to rid the nation’s waterways of insecurity. YUSUF BABALOLA was there You just finished meeting stakeholders in the maritime industry. What was the meeting about? The meeting was about the security in the nation’s maritime sector. You agree with us that there is an upsurge and it is becoming alarming. Recall that we secured an approval of both the president and the cabinet to introduce a maritime architecture which the Israeli is to provide the training and equipment and the rest will be manned by the Nigerian security i.e the Navy, the Police, the Army, Department of State Security Services (DSS). We thought that was the best way to go even though it is within the domain of the Nigerian Navy. We wanted the other members of the armed forces to give them support until we completely arrest the situation before they can withdraw and allow the Navy to continue. We have to continue the conversation because the shipping community is beginning to get a bit worried and we don’t want them to take a decision that might affect trade and other investments that has to do with the maritime transportation, which is why we convened the meeting. The actual truth is, even if there were threats, they are not above the ability of the government to handle but because of those who do business in the waters are beginning to get worried, we need to reassure them that we are on top of the situation. The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) is on top of the situation and we believe by the time we launch into the waters in few months’ time, we should be able to completely eradicate insecurity or reduced to it minimal level.  Why deploying assets on land when the criminals are known to be on the waters? You must know that those who go to the waters don’t leave inside water. So, when the military starts going to the coastal states you will start saying the North hates the South, the military officers from North have come to the South. These criminals live with us do we agree? I am from the South, because these criminals live with us, the military both in terms of intelligence and in physical asset would go and comb them out. Just like they did in Somalia, now you see Somalia is free. So, when you comb them out, then, there would be nobody going into the waters. Look at the assets we are losing, we are paying huge amount of money for protection. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is paying for the so called surveillance. When you stop these people, you are going to save a lot of money for the country and when they start, I won’t want to hear you say North versus South, East versus West but if that is said it is your business because the truth is that crime knows no tribe. They just come for your money, they don’t care if you are from South or North, Christian or Muslim but they are only looking for currency. When the soldiers are deployed instead of you attacking them what you should do is support them so that we can clean this mess. The problem of insecurity is the problem of poverty, hunger and education whether is in the North or South, Boko Haram or banditry. When bandits stop you, do they ask whether you are a Christian or Muslim? No they are looking for you and I who are rich people because when we had money what did we do? We did not invest in infrastructure that will grow the economy, so the economy is just there and is unable to create employment. Like I said, if government is not able to provide legitimate means of livelihood for Nigerians, the poor Nigerians will provide for themselves illegitimate means of livelihood and that is what is going on now. And what that means is that when we save money for the country, I hope that the money will continue to be invested in infrastructure just like the president is doing now, because the more infrastructure you create the more industrial development you create. The more industrial development you create the more employment you create. As many people as possible you employ, you would reduce the number of crimes that take place. For instance, if all of us are working in Shell Petroleum, would there be time to kidnap? There won’t be time if you wake up by six to prepare for work and by seven you are in the office and leave office by seven by the time you get home you sleep. So, if everybody is working, there won’t be anyone disturbing anybody.  For so many years, maritime policy document has been gathering dust in the Federal Ministry of Transportation. What are you doing to get the policy implemented? The first thing you need to do is not the maritime policy document. The first thing is to pull out transport policy and we had gone to the cabinet though, there were disagreement in the course of debate and they asked us to go back and we have gone back. Hopefully, this year we should come out with our transport policy. It is essential that we have a transport policy and when we finish with transport policy, then we can look at maritime policy. We must first get a transport policy of which we will dust the maritime document by calling NPA, NIMASA and may be, setup another committee to separate and fine-tune the policy.  Why is the security contract taking too long to start? If you remember the president and the cabinet approved this contract in 2016, interest groups in the maritime fought us until 2018. When we finally got the presidential approval to proceed and after the contract had been awarded, there was another war. Also, don’t forget that the Americans came to my office when I was a governor and told me that the Nigerian illegal bunkering industry is the seventh largest oil producer in Africa and that they make $7 billion dollars a year and more than one-third of our budget. So, the moment you put this maritime infrastructure in place, you have knocked out those people and do you think they will go freely? They will fight back and what did you do when they fought back? You need to come out and defend this country. Now, we won that battle the president and the cabinet finally approved. Again, we went ahead and they took us to the national assembly, the legislators also approved it and we started. And we were invited to national assembly last month which the minister of state had to represent us because we were not in the country and the managing director of Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) was also invited for the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA).  Should the payment for the Secured Anchorage stop? The payment for the secured anchorage area should have stopped since yesterday, if it has not stopped. I have just told the NPA managing director to write to everybody, the moment you continue to pay you are now breaking the law of land. How many of you go to United Kingdom, have you ever seen anybody attached with the police? No, because they protect the state, the whole of London is under surveillance and everybody is protected. No big man will come with police following him. So, let us secure the state. There is a command and control, there is C4I for intelligence gathering. This is essentially under the control of the Ministry of Defence and Ministry of Transportation. So, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, DG of SSS and Inspector General of Police are essential elements to the success or failure of this because they are in charge and we are the civilian elements. We don’t own guns even though the law says coastal water belongs to NIMASA, but we don’t have guns. We believe working with the defence institutions, we will be able to carry this out successfully. 