Suspected agents of the Rivers State government on Sunday night sealed off the state secretariat of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) located along Igboukwu Street in D-Line, Port Harcourt. The organised labour in the state have been at loggerheads with the state government over the failure of the latter to fully implement the new national minimum wage. NLC had last Saturday mandated the state government to reconvene a meeting of the negotiation committee to start fresh talks on the implementation of the minimum wage. NLC Chairman in the state, Beatrice Itubo, who confirmed the dealing of the secretariat, said the agents claimed that they were from the state government. Itubo stated that a letter sent to her via WhatsApp revealed that those that sealed the secretariat were from the Special Projects department of the state government. She further stated that the locked up may not be connected with the stand of the NLC on salaries on minimum wages and warned that no intimidation can deterred the Labour from asking for the right and privilege of workers, because the issue of minimum wage will be addressed. Meanwhile, Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Adol Peterside, has called on the Rivers State government and labour to return to the negotiating table. Peterside, in statement issued in Port Harcourt, admonished Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike and the NLC not to heat up the state unnecessarily. He said: “It seems the NLC does have a case and the only logical thing to do is to listen to them and not accuse them of being used by imaginary politicians. Perhaps Wike has forgotten that the same workers declared their support for him during the governorship election. “There is no crime in calling the leadership of NLC to a meeting and resolve grey areas rather than threatening them with dire consequences. Only an emperor behaves this way and this is not the way to go. “The combative nature of the governor on many occasions leaves much to be desired and it is in this kind situation that you expect him to be reconciliatory rather than confrontational.” The NIMASA boss called on the NLC leadership in the state to explore all possible avenues to amicably resolve contending issues, adding that anything less than that would further shrink the state’s economy. Peterside said: “Let me call on the leadership of NLC to explore as many platforms as possible in trying to resolve grey areas. Anything short of this will have a telling effect on the state’s economy and productivity. “Let me also appeal to the workers to remain calm and trust in the ability of the state government and NLC to iron out contending issues to the benefit of all. We must keep the economy of the state going.”