First Bank of Nigeria has restated its commitment to ensuring the sustainability of small and medium scale enterprises as it held a business clinic to help small and medium enterprises (SMEs) position to thrive in 2020. The SME Business Clinic featured Abayomi Adewumi, CEO of the Global Leadership Institute, an industry expert and business growth consultant with vast experience working with Small & Medium Enterprises, who engaged participants on the FirstBank SME diagnostic tool, designed for SMEs to check the health of their business, better understand it and drive profitability. Speaking at the clinic held in Lagos at the weekend, the deputy managing director, FirstBank, Gbenga Shobo, said “At FirstBank, we recognise the impact SMEs have in promoting growth of the economy and are excited at the opportunity to continue to enable them prosper by strategically contributing to the sustainability of their business. “We remain the trusted financial partner of SMEs and reiterate our resolve to be known as the brand that enables their success; much the same way that we have for over 125 years enabling Nigerians and the economy at large.” He noted that the 2020 inaugural SME Business Clinic which was themed “Positioning your business to thrive in 2020”, was in furtherance to the bank’s identification with the role SMEs play towards the growth and development of the country. According to him, in the course of the year, the FirstBank SME Clinic will be held across all geo-political zones in Nigeria, thereby deepening the Bank’s impact at bolstering the efficiency of entrepreneurs in the country. In 2019, FirstBank organised an SME week in which seven strategic pillars were identified and considered essential for the sustainability and growth of SMEs. The seven pillars – connect to infrastructure, connect to talent, capacity building, policy and regulation, connect to resources, connect to market as well as connect to finance are intended to promote a healthy business interaction and adaptability of the SMEs with their immediate environment. The week-long event which had SMEs mentored across multiple states in the country was the first of its kind in the industry. The SME Clinic session was organised in partnership with SME Traction, a leading business coaching platform aimed at empowering SMEs to make informed choices about their businesses, thereby facilitating growth and bolstering their contribution to the development of the economy.