Umuahia, the capital, and entire Abia State remained calm and peaceful throughout yesterday as both parents of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu were laid to rest in Afaraukwu. This was contrary to speculations, days ahead, of a possible clash between members of IPOB and security agencies at the burial ceremony of the late His Royal Highness, Eze Israel Kanu and Ugoeze Sally Kanu. Eze Kanu, the traditional ruler of Isiama Afaraukwu Ancient Kingdom in Umuahia north local government area died late last year in an undisclosed hospital in the capital shortly after the wife passed on in Germany. Both public and private schools, some offices and business premises in the capital were closed as precautionary measure against any unforeseen crisis just as there was presence of the police at every strategic junction leading to the community. As was customary and in tandem with the tradition of Igboland, sympathizers which included traditional rulers and different dance groups began arriving the community late Thursday evening and the early hours of the day. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that at a press briefing over a week earlier, the president-general (PG) of Isiama Afafraukwu Development Union (IADU), Chief Ikechukwu Ndubueze had warned members of IPOB to stay clear of the ceremony. Ndubueze had also insisted that the ceremony would be in accordance with the tradition and custom of the community, saying its doors would be open to all irrespective of any differences, but trouble makers of any stripe. Union chieftain, who had blamed the speculations and the negative reports from the community on the social media and sensational reportage, sued for peace in the community to create room for development. Similarly, the younger brother of the leader, Prince Emmanuel Kanu, had emphasized that the family wanted to accord their parents a peaceful burial and will not condone clashes with the authorities. “Enough is enough. We don’t want a reoccurrence of what happened in the community about three years ago, when soldiers invaded and killed some people, and desecrated my father’s palace,” he added. Recall the state’s commissioner of police (CP), Mr Ene Okon, had stressed the command will never compromise the security of the state, even as he advised IPOB members to stay away from the occasion. A statement by the command’s police public relations officer (PPRO), Superintendent Ogbonna Geoffrey, obtained by LEADERSHIP Weekend, Okon justified police presence in the community ahead the date. “The presence of security officials in and around the community should not be seen as a threat, but a proactive measure to prevent the infiltration of miscreants and hoodlums to actualize the intention,” it stated. The statement maintained the command had been inundated with series of intelligence reports that some miscreants disguising as members of the IPOB intended to hijack the occasion in solidarity with their leader. “The intention negates the principle of peace loving and Christian nature of the deceased in according them befitting burial as respected traditional leader and his wife, and Knight and Lady of the Anglican Church,” it added. In his sermon, the Bishop of Umuahia Diocese, Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Rt Rev Geoffery Obijuru Ibeabuchi stressed that Christians must live their lives according to the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, adding the end of this journey, everyone will give account of themselves before God, In his address themed, “What both of you accomplished in life will echo throughout history” the leader said their parents, who he referred to as Papa and Daada were the next best thing to God.