Nigeria’s migration process from analogue to digital broadcasting is likely to suffer setbacks with the death of the chairman, Pinnacle communications limited, Sir Lucky Omoluwa. LEADERSHIP gathered that Omoluwa died at the National Hospital Abuja yesterday. Pinnacle Communications had in 2014 emerged winner of the second Broadcasting Signal Distribution License. The company emerged winner based on its strong financial backbone of N618, 750,000, beating Phase3 Telecoms, which made a financial bid of N100,000,000. The emergence of Pinnacle as a licensee   set the momentum for the second broadcast signal distribution licence of television programming from analogue to digital which was expected to commence in June 2015 across the nation. Some of the contentious policy issues which threatened the implementation of the Digital Switchover, the issues were eventually resolved out of court after protracted legal battle. A source close to family said Omoluwa slumped yesterday morning and later passed on at the hospital. The foremost philanthropist died as a golf icon and a critical stakeholder in the Digital Switch Over (DSO) project of the federal government. Golfers in Abuja and Kaduna state, have, however, used the Golfer’s Forum WhatsApp platform where he is also a member of the Board of Trustee of IBB International Golf & Country Club Abuja and Kaduna Golf Club to mourn his demise. Omoluwa who was born on the 6 March, 1954 is an illustrious entrepreneur and Founder of Pinnacle Communications Limited, a Nigerian broadcast engineering company, as well as Pinnacle Investments Ltd, The Centagon International School Ltd and Tarmac Works Ltd. He has consistently won international awards from Nigeria, Ghana, the UK and USA companies in the area of international best business practice, performance and commitment to commercial relationships and trade between the USA and Nigeria. He has also received several awards including the Good Business Ethics from Harris Corporation USA (now Gates Air), Outstanding Trade Contribution by US government, Outstanding Commitment to Business by Harris Corporation USA (now Gates Air), Support of Trade Development by US government and the Dr Kwame Nkrumah outstanding Merit Award in recognition of outstanding contribution and achievements as a businessman in field of communications.