The co-founder/chairman of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) African Foundation, Dr Daniel Omofoman, has advised micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the country, to adopt the RFID technology to enable them grow and sustain their businesses. Speaking at the maiden edition of a stakeholders roundtable on RFID Technology for MSMEs Development, held in Abuja, Omofoman , noted that Nigerian MSMEs are not in the international market, because they don’t have RFID infrastructure that would help them do quality control and quality assurance. He pointed out that in countries, where RFID technology are in use, assets are monitored in good time, inventory is taken in real time, life circle of goods are monitored in good time, while large circle of goods are also monitored in real time. The co-founder stated that the 37million MSMEs in the country need to adopt the RFID technology to help them sustain their businesses and to enable them grow from micro to macro, macro to medium, at little or no cost to them. Omofoman noted that RFID technology has gained popularity in different nations and industries in the global economy with impact on supply chain and logistics, education, health, production, military, security and safety; hospitality and tourism. He therefore called on stakeholders in industrial sector in the country to agree and support the promotion and adoption of the technology to position Nigerian businesses among their global competitors. Earlier in his remarks, the director general, Small and Medium Entreprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Dikko Umaru Raddan, had noted that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is poised to grow the MSMEs sector, which would in turn boost activities in the economy to create foreign exchange earnings. Raddan added that with over 37 million MSMEs offering over 59 million jobs in Nigeria, the MSMEs sub-sector is the most viable instrument for diversifying the economy. In a paper titled: Understanding the Role of RFID in the Development and Growth of MSMEs; Finished Leather Goods Pilot, national secretary, Association of Leather/Allied Industrialists of Nigeria (ALAIN), Mr. Ken Anyanwu, urged government agencies to see the RFID technology as a match towards building a strong economy that would be the pride of Nigerians. Anyanwu noted that to diversify the economy, the non oil sector should be given priority, while focus should be mostly on MSMEs, adding that many MSMEs are already exporting informally, even as success is also being achieved on the acceptance of these products in the local market.