Chairman, Board of Trustees of Council for New Nigeria initiative (CNNi), Senator Abu Ibrahim has implored President Muhammadu Buhari to solidify the All Progressives Congress, a political platform he rode on to realise his life time ambition as civilian president of Nigeria, saying this is the only way the president can sustain his legacy in government. Ibrahim stated this at the presidential villa when the Board of Trustees of the CNNi, which was formerly known as National Committee for Buhari Support Groups (NCBSG) before and during the last general elections paid a courtesy visit to the president. The support group also intimated Buhari on issues relating to economic share prosperity for the citizennry, particularly those poor masses of Nigeria, National unity and preservation of his achievements after 2023. Speaking at the meeting, leader of the delegation, Senator Ibrahim said, “The teeming masses who supported APC and Mr. President in the last general elections and trekked miles upon miles are expecting more, particularly, on campaigns promises of the party, APC and Mr. President goal to lift 100million citizens out of poverty. Achieving these goals will definitely put Mr. President on the positive side of history” Ibrahim, a former Senator from Kastina South also admonished President Buhari to do everything within his power as the leader of the party to save APC from disintegration. According to him, the general belief in the public is that Mr President is the key holding APC together, and as a result, the CNNi, appeals to Mr. President to initiate policies and programmes that would enable the public to appreciate the party a lot more and put the party in preference when it comes to considering post administration achievements in elections of 2023. The group added that its main purpose as a group was to  give support to the government of President Buhari to succeed and leave a good legacy behind. He further clarified that the objective of his group is to see that the Buhari Government is perceived as responsive,  and that they were ready to give all their positive best to make this reality. The group had earlier in their discussions with President Buhari reminded him of how he personally chose the name, Council for New Nigeria Initiative, CNNi, from which they proceeded and accordingly. Ibrahim said, “The CNNi’s vision is of an appropriately positioned platform at the heart of a new Nigeria, where the leaders and the led are united in their commitment to advancing the cause of a Nation and the citizens’ sense of patriotism and pride is utmost. “Its mission is to mobilise all stakeholders to uphold the ideals of selfless service to motherland and to take actions that produce an enlightened citizenry, promote responsible governance, and galvanize Nigerians to guarantee sustainable national growth and development” Senator Ibrahim listed the group’s objectives to include, “to serve as a platform for promoting the philosophical ideals of nationhood and responsible citizenship, and to coordinate the activities of stakeholders as they strive under all circumstances to preserve the unity (in diversity) of the Nigerian State, without prejudice to any ethnic, religious, social, economic, political and gender biases. On his part, director of media and publicity,  Otunba Biodun Ajiboye, said,  “CNNi, is an organisation desirous of ensuring that the Government of Mohammadu Buhari scores high points in the estimation of the public” He stressed that strategies are in place to see that wish accomplished, according to him, “CNNi is a  bridge builder betweeen Government and the people and Connecting the link pin in the communications chain seems the major task of our organization” The other members on the entourage include,  Senator Dayo Adeyeye, Owelle Prince Nicholas Ukachukwu, Otunba Biodun Ajiboye, Mustapha Habib Ahmed, Prof.  MT Usman, and Alh. Zakari aliyu jiya. The president in his remark,  thanked the group and aknowledged their sterling efforts in the last 5 years supporting his Government and political activities.