The Federal Government says it is targeting the feeding of about 120,300 pupils drawn from 626 public primary schools across the six area councils of the Federal Capital Territory through its school feeding programme, the National Home Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP). The minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq stated this while flagging-off the programme in Karu Model Primary school, Abuja. The minister noted that the initiative is part of the federal government’s efforts to address malnutrition of school children and secure a better future for them especially those who are disadvantaged. Farouq also disclosed that the government spends N70 per pupil daily in executing the school feeding programme designed by the President Muhammadu Buhari’s led administration to improve the health and educational outcome of public pupils. Adding that the programme uses farm produce grown by smallholder farmers to provide mid-day meal to children on every school day. Farouq said HGSFP seeks to provide one free nutritional meal for children in primary 1-3 in all public primary schools in Nigeria using food produced within state, adding that the initiative attempts to achieve the dual objectives of increasing the nation’s food production and ensuring children go to school. She stated that the programme provide viable opportunity that links the smallholder farmers to the educational sector by facilitating their access to the feeding market. Speaking of value chain implications of the programme, the minister stated that it has empowers those who cook the food and provide a sustainable income to smallholder farmers thereby stimulating growth and productivity around the communities. She promised to carry all the stakeholders including the cooks along in course of the full implementation of the programme in FCT to ensure efficient service delivery. Responding the minister of state for the FCT, Dr. Raumatu Tijani Aliyu, commended the initiative as laudable, stressing that it is aimed at touching the grassroots pupils and to encourage school attendance. She stated that records from states that have been involved in the programme show that it has enhance school attendance to about 90 percent, adding that it has also created jobs for parents that insist on children hawking as they now have a place where they can market thereby reducing child labour.