Lawyers under the auspices of Coalition of Public Interest Lawyers and Advocates (COPA), has tasked the current administration to use the same vigour it deployed in the prosecution of the former Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olisah Metuh, to purge the cabinet of persons who have cases to answer. The lawyers who insisted that the move, if taken would enhance the credibility of the government, also added that Nigerians would want to know if their leaders are corrupt or not. Speaking to journalists in Abuja, yesterday as part of activities scheduled for the closing ceremony of COPA’s 2020 Advocacy Year opening event, convener group, Mr Pelumi Olajengbesi also decried the worsening security situation of the country, calling for a complete rejig of the nation’s security architecture. “We have the case of Mr Okechukwu Ogah the current Minister of state for Mines and Steel who has a record and has been charged to court and the administration influenced the withdrawal of the matter through the then Inspector General of Police.  EFCC took over the matter but unfortunately before investigating the matter, this man was decorated with a ministerial appointment. “What we are saying is this, let this administration address this matter to ensure that there is justice in the real sense of it. So if this administration must fight corruption, this administration must purify itself and purge itself of all individuals who have corrupt record. They must be investigated. “There is a need for the Nigerian people to know if these people are innocent or not; it is even important for them. “This is our demand. Our demand is nonpartisan, our demand is that we build a country we all can be proud of. A country where Olisah Metuh is convicted today and tomorrow Mr Uchechukwu is convicted if found guilty and that is the beauty of democracy.” Speaking on the current insecurity, he said “We note with deep regrets the high level of insecurity that has rocked the very foundation of this country. Never before have the lives and livelihood of Nigerians been so threatened with neither respite nor solution in sight. The wave of banditry and insurgency in the north and kidnappings and robberies in the south are indictments expressive of the failure of Mr. President to secure the lives of the people he is sworn to protect. “There appears to be an unhealthy competition amongst our security agencies which has made cooperation in intelligence gathering and sharing difficult, old and tired security heads are still being retained in office while our poorly equipped soldiers and policemen die in their numbers fighting a failing war.”