As a strategy to protect and prevent residents of the state from being infected with the dreaded coronavirus disease otherwise known as (COVID-19), the Cross River State Government under the watch of Prof. Ben Ayade has intensified efforts towards preventing the spread of the disease in the state. To this end, measures are been taken to ensure that visitors coming into the state through, land borders, air and water are screened at every entry point before being allowed to enter the state. Speaking on the issue in Calabar, after making visitation to the Margaret Ekpo international Airport, the State commissioner for Health, Dr. Betta Edu, in company of the state Director General DG, Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Janet Ekpeyong in company of the World Health Organization’s team in the state stressed that as a health ministry, they would leave no stone unturned with regards to the prevention of the COVID-19 virus in the state stressing that its the reason that state government came up with strict measures to ensure that all visitors coming into the state are screened no matter how highly place the individuals are. “The step is not to witch hunt any one but to ensure that those infected with the dreaded virus are taken to isolation centre put in place by state government”. “We aren’t doing this to discriminate any one but to ensure that those infected with the dreaded virus don’t spread it to others”,Stressing that what they are doing is in line with new world social order to ensure that the spread of the disease is strictly put under control.
Recalled that an Italian national has been confirmed positive to the dreaded (COVID-19) disease while entering Lagos, a situation which brought tension and heightening of blood pressure of many. To this end, all immigrants making entry into the country through the nation’s seaport, airport and the land borders are subjected to thorough screening before being allowed into the state. Edu stated that several foreigners from countries that had reported cases of COVID-19 who boarded aircraft same day to Calabar had been asked to isolate themselves from other members of the public stressing that contacts of the visitors had been taken so that health officials handling such cases will make be making visitation to where ever the visitors are residing. ” All contact tracing had been done, history taken and self isolation advised “. Edu maintained. Educ stated that she and her team, also visited the office of the General manager of the Nigerian Ports Authority NPA to speak on the need why immigrants entering the state through the seaport need to be screen. She said that state government was fully prepare to go extra mill to ensure that the safety of all individuals residing in the state is guaranteed adding that as a ministry they are on top of the situation. Edu called for proper washing of hands with soap and use of hand sanitizer at regular intervals so as not to be infected by the virus. Other precautionary measures which the commissioner spoke of includes, avoid touching of eyes, nose, face, mouth and to cover their mouths while sneezing and coughing in public places without use of handkerchief and avoid flexing of elbow among others. Edu called for calm, and at all times report any suspected case of cough, high fever, headache and history of travel within 14 days to any country where cases of COVID-19 had been reported especially on countries like China stressing that a medical teams present in the state is at red alert to tackle the menace of the disease.