Housemaids are practically indispensable to some households, research has shown. In these households, the housemaids perform typical domestic chores and also care for toddlers called babysitting. Sadly, some of these housemaids inflict a lot of physical and psychological trauma on the children behind the scenes, writes TUNDE OGUNTOLA. It not uncommon to watch a video, perhaps on social media, where you see toddlers been maltreated by housemaids, house helps, nannies or even caregivers. In such videos, toddlers are seen visibly suffering from severe and frequent physical abuse, including being hit with an object, slammed on the floor, stumbled upon or being deprived of food by housemaids. While most homes in Nigeria with working-class parents have a housemaid. Nigeria Nollywood movies tell us more of how these housemaids are treated in reality. Some of the employers of these housemaids can starve their housemaid, forcing them to eat in the kitchen at most instances, while the madam, her kids, and her husband enjoy the luxury of the dining table. They also receive beaten of their lives at any slightest provocation. In some instances, you can see a housemaid who is 12 years old washing clothes for 12 years old daughters of their madam, they go to a different school, and beaten up to pulp by madam at the slightest provocation. Although their kids can go for extra lectures after school, the housemaid stays in the kitchen cooking. While family members watch TV together, the maid is also forced to either sit in the kitchen or her room.  Housemaid Strangled 2-year-old To Death In Imo A couple of weeks ago, the Imo Police Command Spokesman, Orlando Ikeokwu confirmed a case where a housemaid identified as Hope Istifanus, allegedly strangled a two-year-old baby girl, Somkenechukwu, to death. The suspect, 16-year-old, was said to have been living with the deceased’s parents as a maid at their Ihechiowa Street, off MCC Road, Owerri home. It was gathered that the suspect strangled the baby and watched her die, after which she prepared the baby to look like she was sleeping and carried on her daily task as though nothing happened. “When Somkenechukwu’s mother returned from the market, she saw the child lying on the bed. The maid told her that the little girl had eaten, bathed and slept off after running around the house. She didn’t suspect anything and decided to rest a little. However, when the baby did not wake up after four hours, she decided to wake her up. “Efforts by the mother to wake up Somkenechukwu proved abortive, as she neither turned nor showed any sign of life. This prompted the mother to rush the baby to the hospital, accompanied by the housemaid, where the baby was pronounced dead, showing signs of strangulation. That was when all eyes turned to the maid and after interrogation, she admitted to have committed the act, which she attributed to the devil,’’ one of the neighbours who identified himself as Okafor Chinedu said. Istifanus was, however, taken to the MCC Road Police Station to avoid a mob action.  Child Abuse: Woman Slams Housemaid In A Shocking Video In Enugu In December 2019, a trending video was circulated on different social media platforms showing how a young girl from Jos, Goewam Peace, was slammed to the ground by her madam, Amaka Otolehi, who hails from Ngor-Okpala, Enugu State. In the disturbing footage which is currently generating a series of emotional reactions from social media users, Mrs Otolehi could be seen trying to close the door of her car, but unknown to her the door she tried to shut with force hit a toddler believed to be her daughter who was yet to enter the car, while the housemaid Peace was already sitting at the back seat. Angered by the incident, Mrs Otolehi dragged the housemaid out of the car, lift her and smashed her on the floor. While she was brutalizing her, the little girl eventually managed to escape from her grip and fled to stay far from the woman. In a swift response, the woman who was, however, arrested in Enugu State on Tuesday, December 24, by the Nigeria Police Force, Enugu State Command, blamed the devil for her actions. Mrs Otolehi was arrested alongside her husband Nkemakolam Otolehi for the abuse of Goewam Peace, a young girl from Jos. The child’s uncle, Jonathan Goewam, who gave her away to the Otolehi family to live with them, was also arrested. Amaka blamed her actions on the devil. She said she acted out of anger and had never maltreated Peace before slamming her to the ground. She added that kids love her and her action towards Peace in that viral video is uncharacteristic of her. Speaking to newsmen, she said in tears: “I don’t know what came over me. I have never treated her in such a manner before. You can enquire from her school, you can ask our neighbours. “This is not how we have been living, I’m a lover of children, they all come to my house. Anger put me into this, I love Peace, we have been living together for two years, this is just something that went out of the ordinary.” Enugu State Police Commissioner, Ahmad Abdulrahman, while addressing journalists at the State Police Command, said: “When I viewed the viral video, it was an eyesore. I gave an order to my technical officers and anti-cult team. This eventually led to her arrest, alongside her husband Nkemakolam Ortolehi. “We also arrested Mr. Jonathan Goewan, the uncle to the victim, who out of greed brought her to Enugu from Jos and probably sold her to this wicked family. “Irrationally, she held her own daughter who she had affection for but was thrusting this very girl on the ground as if she was killing a fowl.” He added: “We protected and rescued the girl and she is going to be handed over to a government agency that will take care of her till we trace her parents. “They will come down and tell us why they divorced this girl from them; as for the uncle, he has no satisfactory answer, so we are suspecting foul play. “This is a typical example of child abuse, child labour, torture and man’s inhumanity to man.”  House Maid Feeds Two-year-old With Faeces A pharmacist, Mrs Uchechukwu Onyekwelu Kingz, whose son Prince Osinachi, a two-year-old, was badly maltreated by a maid. Agatha Joshua, under her watch, has warned all mothers to be wary of house helps or install a CCTV camera. The 14-year-old nanny cum housemaid, not only scarred the boy with beatings, but also gave him his faeces to eat. Narrating her ordeal, she said parents who watched the video will need to rethink the idea of leaving their kids with maids or nannies, as they can traumatise their children for life. “I am grateful to God for saving my son Prince Osinachi from death and for saving my family from sorrow. I employed a maid Agatha Joshua, who hails from Gboko, Benue State, a Tiv by tribe. ‘’I took her as my first daughter, put her in a standard school, bought her everything she wanted, not just needed. I also took her for HIV and hepatitis test immediately she came and then gave her the three doses of hepatitis vaccine when she tested negative. I equally do not flog her at all, I only knock her or draw her ear to correct her whenever she makes mistakes, and I don’t do this often because she was very obedient and smart. ‘’I trusted Agatha. If anyone could tell me that this could happen to my son, I would insult the hell out of him or her, as she was an excellent and super smart pretender, scheming her way into gaining our trust. I trusted her with my son, the keys to my bulk food and provisions storeroom and even my personal room to clean at times. ‘’It happened on 3 July that I decided to bath my son by myself, because Agatha has been the one bathing him since I was six months pregnant, and working in a pharmacy where we run evening and weekend shifts. On that fateful day, she rushed to me in the bathroom showing me cane marks on Prince’s back, tummy and face, saying it’s the class teacher that flogged him, I kept asking who is the heartless person that will flog a 2-year-old. ‘’In less than one hour, my son vomited more than seven times, I knew something was seriously wrong because my son never vomited. Even all through his teething and vaccinations, he hardly runs temperature or falls ill, he is extremely strong and healthy. In fact, since I left the hospital after his delivery, I never stepped the hospital until 1year plus. ‘’Immediately, my son, Agatha and I marched to the school and I confronted the teacher and head teacher, they said they do not beat kids in their school and that they equally saw the marks and intended to ask me who slapped him. When I called my mom, she insisted I check my house staff especially Agatha, but due to the trust and love I had for Agatha, I called her bluff and told her I highly doubt Agatha could do that. Nonetheless, I immediately included it in my to-do list to review my CCTV camera fixed in the house, as I was super busy, preparing for my child’s dedication. From there we proceeded to the lab for general tests and I ended up giving him antibiotics for typhoid. ‘’The postponing lingered until Sunday, 28 July. Amidst very tight schedules, I finally check the recordings before it wipes from the memory. Lo and behold, I saw Agatha flogging and beating my son mercilessly as shown in the videos. I couldn’t believe my eyes I started weeping profusely, drew the attention of my husband and called my parents and siblings immediately. She even used ice-cold water on several occasions to bath him and wash his poo little wonder I keep treating cough and catarrh every two weeks, I even started complaining that drugs are fake. ‘’I pity women who leave their kids, especially girls, in the care of maids or nannies, without any form of monitoring, in the name of career, travel or busy schedules. No matter our tight schedules or the quantity of house helps we have, let us try to still pay serious attention to our jewels because they can’t be bought with money or gold. ‘’Do you know the cause of his strange vomiting that morning? It was because Agatha gave him his excreta to eat on the previous day when they returned from school, after flogging him mercilessly for pooing on his clothes. Jesus wept! ‘’I always praised Agatha and tell my colleagues at work and family that I am lucky to have her, and always thanked her uncle, the security man at my workplace, who brought her to me, not knowing she was a green snake; I never suspected a thing. In fact, when my mother and sisters visited for Omugwo and child dedication, each one had a complaint about her for either stealing or being disrespectful, but I waved all aside because of blind trust. ‘’What would I have done if God didn’t use me to install CCTV in my house? How would I have ever discovered this great evil happening under my nose? I always watch such videos on social media, but I always thought it so vague and distant from me, I never knew it was happening right under my roof.’’ She added that she never allowed her housemaid to know that she install a CCTV in the house. ‘’Agatha denied everything until she was shown the videos, she was shocked to her marrows, that is to tell you that the heart of man is desperately wicked. She thought no one was watching or would ever discover, but she forgot God is omnipotent and omniscience,’’ she added.  Mothers Now Chase Money, Give Less Time for their Kids – CRACO The executive director, Child Rights Awareness Creation Organisation (CRACO), Joseph Igwe decried that some mothers now chase money and wealth, and no longer have time for their children. He said both parents now go to work and come back late in the night, and that is the reason why housemaids have become an option to fill in the gap. Igwe said nobody can take care for a child more than the mother, no matter who the person is, adding that a woman or a nursing mother who left her children for a housemaid should not expect to get the best. He said: ‘’I would advise parents and mothers or women to try as much as possible to create a chance for their children. They should be selective in the kind of work or job they do or they accept. They should ensure that any job that they accept can give them enough time to come home and take care of their children. I would even advise that mothers should be self-employed, if possible, so that they can have sufficient time for their children. Engaging a house help should be the last option, where mothers cannot afford to do a business on their own. In that case, I would advise they go for someone that they know well, maybe a relation or family member. At least, let it be somebody that is somehow close to them. ‘’Most of this house help that you read about in the news are total strangers. Most of them are even foreigners from different countries like Togo, Benin Republic, Niger. They don’t have a relation or tie with the family. That is why anything they do to the toddlers would not affect them. Igwe lamented that some employers of these housemaids, on the other hand, treat them as if they are less human. He said some employers don’t give their house helps equal treatment with their children, because some of them can’t even watch television in the living room with the family, they don’t allow them feel any sense of belonging. So sometimes, the treated these housemaids dished out to their employers children, is a transfer of aggression on those innocent kids. The child right expert decried that the way some employers treat their maids usually results to the cruel treatment on their wards. He further advised parents on the treatment meted on their house workers, saying, “Employers of housemaids should treat them equally with their children. And as for schooling, if possible, enrol them in the same school with your children. That will make them feel safe and happy with your family and most possibly, would not want to cause you grief,’’ he said. On how to report abuse by housemaids, he said the nature of our community now makes people to be afraid of going to the police. “Nigeria is not like the western world where you can just call the police and he will be at your residence in less than five minutes. In our own community, you will be asked to fuel the police van if you need them to go to your home. ‘’A lot of people are not willing to have to go there anymore, that is why people now prefer non-governmental organisations. People are more comfortable with NGOs than going to report at the police station. I must say something about Lagos State Government: It has done a lot in that respect too. They are making a lot of reforms and innovation. In fact, Lagos State does not joke with any form of child abuse or maltreatment. So, there is a special agency in Lagos called Domestic and Sexual Violence Response, under the Ministry of Justice. They manage domestic and sexual violence issues in the state,’’ he said.  FIDA Urges Parent To Set Standards When Choosing A Maid The International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA) has said that there is a need to set standards when choosing a maid for your family. The president, FCT chapter, FIDA, Rachael Adejo-Andrew, while speaking exclusively with LEADERSHIP Weekend said as an employer, you must do your best to give her the comfort she needs, to avert retaliation from them. She said: “Of course, we know that it is wrong, but sometimes it brings to bear how probably the madam has been treating the house help in question. But of course, except in very extreme cases where you have house help who are wicked, we also have the madam who treat their house help well, perhaps she might want to extend the kindness and the good treatment she gets from the madam to the children, but you might have the situation who treat the house help badly. ‘’I understand that some women rules are so strict that the house help cannot eat on the dining table with the family. Sometimes the house help sleep on the bare floor; there is no mattress. You know they don’t provide the necessary things for the house help sometimes. It is like no bed sheet or the blanket to cover themselves and things like that, and the house help keeps working practically on her feet all day. Of course, when such madam is not around, she will take it out on the children. So for me, people who have house help should treat their house help well. “You find in some household that house helps have lived with their employers for like 10 years or even more. If that house help is not been treated well, there is no way he/she will stay for such numbers of years.’’ She averred that homes that show house maids love, practically make them almost part of the family. ‘’One of the reasons largely responsible for housemaids maltreating their employers children is the ill-treatment they also get from their employers. She also urged employers not to encourage child-labour. ‘’Another issue we need to be very careful not to employ a child that is too small. I find it ridiculous when somebody says my house help is 8 years, 9 or 10 years. You should not expect the best from such a child. ‘’I don’t know or understand the kind of duty or care you will expect from a child of 10 years old. So we also need to be careful and employ people who are already adult from age 18, because we know about the child right act and child labour law and all of that. Even after employing an adult, you should still install a CCTV camera to monitor their activities,’’ she said. She said when you notice that the house help is not been friendly with your child, you should immediately lay him/her off. For parents who don’t have a CCTV, she said: “if you don’t have a CCTV, once in a while you should go home unannounced or tell your neighbours to go to your house and see what is happening there.” She also decried that values are also weaning, hence, we need to be careful of who we engage as a housemaid. ‘’Prior to now, your neighbour can help look after your child, if you are going out, but you can’t try that anymore. Communal living is failing; we don’t have good communal living anymore, so people just need to be extra careful,’’ she added.