Recently, supporters of the peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gathered at the Sokoto Government House to receive Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal after his return from Abuja where the Supreme Court upheld his electoral victory. Few days on, the PDP yet again recorded another victory in the rerun elections for two State House of Assembly and two National Assembly seats contested for. ANKELI EMMANUEL in this analysis looks at the political impulse of the victories. The recent electoral victories of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the two Sokoto State House of Assembly election has jacked up their number to 14 against that of the All Progressives Congress (APC) which has a slim majority of 15 at the moment. Though, INEC is still expected to conduct yet another rerun election to fill the vacuum created by the sudden death of Isa Harisu, the APC member representing Kebbe State Constituency.
Expectedly, either of the two leading contending parties (APC/PDP) will not take the Kebbe State Constituency rerun for granted. At least, if not for anything but the fact that, a win for the PDP might lead to equilibrium in the House and a loss would mean the APC has controlling power in the legislative arena.
Recall that, same Kebbe it was whose election was long awaited during the Sokoto State Governorship supplementary elections of 2019. Though, results from Kebbe as at then, showed that, majority of the votes were for the APC.
However, no political observer will be surprised if the political arithmetic turns out against the APC in the yet to be conducted Kebbe State Constituency rerun. After all, the former National Assembly Speaker, Rt Hon. Aminu Waziri Tambuwal (PDP) was before his emergence as governor in 2015 the member representing Tambuwal/Kebbe federal constituency.
Should the APC win; it will have 16 members as against PDP with 14. In the event PDP takes the day again, then it will be 15/15. As things stand now, the APC has the Speaker, Majority Leader and the Majority Whip while the PDP has Deputy Speaker, Minority Leader and the Minority Whip.
Much as the APC seems to be at an advantage in the state legislature, governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal’s political maradonaship has however created a sedimentary layer of loyalty to him and his government from the very onset when as a former lawmaker he realized how important it was for the Executive to be in total or partial control of the lawmakers.
Towards achieving this agenda of possible equilibrium in the composition of Sokoto State 9th House of Assembly, Tambuwal and his party arithmetically went ahead of the APC’s anointed candidates to nominate and support another neutral APC lawmaker as their preferred candidate for Speakership. And so it was.
From a realistic concept of political punter, those APC lawmakers that enjoyed the support of Tambuwal’s PDP lawmakers in the House thus owed some degree of hidden allegiance to the government.
WamakkoMore so that, the lengthy litigations that followed the 2019 governorship election has been brought to an end with the recent Supreme Court judgment that affirmed the election of governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal. This, laced with his political bravery into ensuring that the leadership of the state lawmakers owe him some degree of allegiance, therefore compel many pundits in the state to assert that his legitimacy has blossomed.
For critical observers, the 2019 governorship struggle in the Seat of the Caliphate was more of a battlefield for political godfathers between the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC).
The contest was beyond a mere political baptism of fire for incumbent governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal versus his deputy, Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto rather another chessboard for erstwhile political heavyweights to clash once again.
After all, both Tambuwal and Ahmed Aliyu are beneficiaries of Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko’s political benevolence to have emerged governor and deputy respectively in 2015. However, now that the drum beats have changed, one will be left with no option than to ask if the dancing steps will equally change.
Both Senator Wamakko and Governor Tambuwal were said to have high degree of respect for each other, especially when they dumped the PDP in 2014 on grounds of misgovernance. However, recent turn of events after Tambuwal’s sudden but expected defection from the APC and back to the PDP proves that, the marriage was no longer of convenience hence things fell apart.
In the display of their individual political maturity, Tambuwal since his defection restrained himself from making derogatory remarks about his erstwhile godfather.
Tambuwal’s predecessor, now Senator Wamakko on his part, being a political bulldozer only spoke in public about his successor once when he was given a heroic welcome back to the state for having stayed back in the APC.
Wamakko was very emphatic about his love for Tambuwal when he told the crowd that Tambuwal is a very promising politician with lots of prospects. But has pathetically lost it through his defection back to the PDP.
Now, Tambuwal’s victory at the Supreme Court goes to prove that what Wamakko saw in him then was simply nothing short of the truth. This is even more so that, the name, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal is by every standard before then a household name in the political discourse of Nigeria.
This was more so that his mystifying rose to become the Speaker of the 7th National Assembly and all the aftermath drama remained a lasting tale of political machination in the country.
Though, most pundits were of the opinion that his tenure as Speaker was going to be full of rancor hence his emergence was against the powers that be, Tambuwal like the political “Maradona” he is fondly called by admirers was able to convincingly bring every lawmaker at the Green Chamber to his side, hence having a smooth tenure.
Having made his mark as the number 4 citizen of the country, Tambuwal nursed and indicated both latent and manifest interest in contesting for the 2015 presidency.
However, in the build up to the general elections, he was advised by some respectable political bigwigs notable amongst them was Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, the then governor of Sokoto State and President Muhammadu Buhari’s North West Presidential Campaign Coordinator to humbly step aside for the emergence of Muhammadu Buhari.
Tambuwal, in his usual characteristic towed the path of honour and obeyed the voice of Wamakko. A sacrifice that, his erstwhile political godfather in the state, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko cherished and reciprocated by single handedly making Tambuwal his successor in 2015.
Though, Tambuwal became the governor of Sokoto State in 2015, however, his latent and manifest body language showed that of someone who is on a political voyage with another destination in mind.
Within the three years of his first tenure, Tambuwal was battling between sustaining his national political relevance and governing a state. In the build up to the 2019 general elections, Tambuwal confirmed the speculations when he made a u-turn from the All Progressives Congress (APC) a party under whose ticket he got the governorship to his old party (PDP). While in the PDP, Tambuwal went ahead to contest the party’s presidential primaries.
While all these where happening, critics fitfully wrote Tambuwal off as not doing anything at all in his state. This development therefore compelled LEADERSHIP into a revealing searchlight on the reality between his critics and counter reactions from notable fair-minded observers of developmental strides in the state.
Expectedly, taking a cursory survey and analytical assessments of governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal’s style of governance and achievements thus far, showed inter alia that, those fabricated image of unverified criticisms were far from the truth, going by his achievements and rising fate in the political equation of Nigeria.
According to Tambuwal’s Special Adviser on Media and Public Affairs, Muhammad Bello, Tambuwal’s sanctimonious doggedness and aesthetic niche for development both in the state and in Nigeria remain very glaring for all to see.
Tambuwal, as the deputy Chairman of Nigerian Governors Forum was recently appointed as the Chairman PDP’s Governors Forum, a development that yet again adds up to his political mileage.
Now that the Supreme Court has ended all litigations, and his political acceptability continues to widen across the nation, pundits will however continue to dissect Tambuwal’s governance in the state especially that, locals often accuse Tambuwal of having elitists’, restrictive political mentality contrary to the accessible governance style of his predecessor, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko.