The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has said that his administration was working with World the Bank to upgrade girls schools to higher standard across the state. The governor disclosed this when he paid an unscheduled visit to Dr. Amina Abubakar Government Girls College in Birnin Kebbi on Wednesday 12/2/2020. He told the female students at their assembly ground that they would see many improvement in their school and other girls schools in the state because the state government was working with the World Bank to ensure that all girls schools in Kebbi State are upgraded to higher standard, well equipped with learning and skill acquisitions tools so that the girls could excel in their various endeavors. He also said he had gone round the school to assess some of the problems facing them particularly their toilet issues. He promised to immediately address the toilet issue and other problems confronting the school such as the dilapidated hostels. The Governor said” We went round and see that the toilet is an issue, we will send somebody tomorrow to assess and fix them. Some of the hostels are dilapidated but unfortunately that is a bigger challenge because without you going on a holiday we can’t do some of the repairs”. Earlier, one of the school teachers, Salim Musa Koko and a student of the school requested the governor to assist the school with more teachers and provide computers for the final year students who will be writing their JAMB and other qualifying examinations. In response, Governor Bagudu promised to send some computers to the school particularly for students graduating this year to enable them write their JAMB and qualifying exams with ease. He also promised to provide some sporting facilities to the school. He charged the students to put in their best in learning, respect their teachers and compliment each other in their quest to seek for knowledge. The Chief of Staff Government House, Alhaji Suleiman Muhammad Argungu, House of Representatives member representing Argungu/Augie federal constituency, Hon. Bashar Matawalle , Alhaji Faruku Musa (Enabo) were among other state functionaries that accompanied the governor on the visit .