The Concerned Citizens of Zamfara has said that former governor of Zamfara State, Abdulaziz Yari, was never arrested and detained by the police as reported. Some online news portals had reported that the former Zamfara governor was questioned by the police in Abuja over his comments on the demolition of Zamfara APC party offices during a gathering in Talata Mafara Local Government Area. Chairman of the Group, Malam Musa Gusau said they were amazed at “fabricated, fake stories that the former governor Abdul’aziz Yari was arrested and grilled for six hours by top police officers on Tuesday.” The Group recalled the misunderstanding between Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara state and his predecessor – Yari, which culminated with the former accusing Yari of instigating violence and security breach in the state. “Matawalle alleged that anytime Yari visits the state, security breach followed, which he emphasised was too much for coincidence. “But, it turned out that governor Matawalle was scared of the large mammoth crowd that always welcomed Yari whenever he visited Talatan Mafara of Zamfara state. An indication that the people of zamfara state still stand with Yari and APC. “It’s on the same note that yesterday the incumbent governor’s footsoldiers continued with their usual sponsorship of another round of fake stories on national dailies regarding the so-called rumoured arrest of the former governor Yari. They said the issue has to do with his remarks on Saturday in his hometown in Talata Mafara Local Government Area of the state. “Surprisingly, at that political gathering with his supporters, former governor Yari didn’t make any utterances considered to be inflammatory or inciting. He only called Governor Matawalle to order on his recent attacks and demolishing moves against APC offices and houses in zamfara. Abdul’aziz Yari then, addressed and urged his mammoth supporters to be law-abiding citizens, be patient and ignore the harrassment and intimidation from the governor as the ex-governor is doing every thing possible to stop such political rascality”, the group stated. “Then, what do you want Yari to do or say when his supporters are being subjected to hardship and persecution? Yari will stand for them as they stand for him. He is not such a leader that allow the humiliation of his supporters anywhere not only in zamfara state”, the group added. The statement described former governor Yari as “law abiding citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, who could willingly and swiftly honour any invitation by the police or any other security agency but not the type of invitation being spread by propagandists in the media”, they declared. The group added that Yari as a law-abiding citizen and a former governor “has never and will never breach the law of the land. He has no problem with the police invitation, even if it exists. As a a law-abiding citizen of Nigeria he is not above the laws of the country. So what is the noise about, even if Yari is invited by the police on matters of interest? “, they queried. “However, we want to publically dismiss the purported allegations that the former governor had made some inciting comments while addressing his supporters in the state; the allegations were ill- motivated, vicious and totally baseless. Yari’s purported arrest and detention by any police higher authorities, was a smokescreen” the Group insisted.