Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has sent a petition to the inspector-general of police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, demanding the arrest of the national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The governor refuted media reports of his planned exit from APC along with some key members of his administration. He said that they were going nowhere from a party they helped to entrench in the state. Obaseki said that he was also in Abuja to submit a written petition to the IGP and the director-general of the Department of State Services (DSS) demanding the immediate arrest of Oshiomhole for breaching the state law banning political rallies. After a meeting of the APC governors’ sub-committee on governance with the National Assembly leadership, Obaseki, who was represented by his deputy, Philip Shuaibu, confirmed to newsmen that part of reasons he was in Abuja was to submit a petition over the breach of law banning political rallies in the state by Oshiomhole. Obaseki, who co-chairs the sub-committee, said: “I am in Abuja to meet with the IG. I have a petition to the IG and to the director of DSS to the effect that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole be arrested by the police and DSS for the breakdown of law and order that he has consistently perpetrated in Edo State. “We banned rallies, the IG in a letter also suspended rallies. He disobeyed the orders of the state government; he disobeyed the orders of the IG, and feels that he is above the law. For us, we have officially come now to drop our petition with the IG to the effect that Oshiomhole is not above the law; he should be arrested for violating the state government’s order. “He (Oshiomhole) was a governor before and he knows that nobody violated his orders as governor, because it is not about him, it is about the state. When everybody disobeys the laws, then the country becomes a Banana Republic, God forbid. And that is why we are saying that the IG and the DG of DSS should arrest him and interrogate him for breaching the peace and disobeying government and security orders for rallies. “So, for us, when the suspended national chairman of the party continually disobeys the law, when opposition party chairmen do same, he becomes a reference point. That is why I am here on behalf of the state government to submit a petition to the IG to the effect that the suspended chairman, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole be arrested and prosecuted for breaching the peace of Edo State,” he said. When asked to confirm whether Obaseki was planning to leave the APC, he said: “That statement has been coming on and on. I can categorically tell you that the governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki and I are in APC and we are not leaving the party. “The party is stronger today because of the governor of Edo State and we read such things on the social media, what we just say is that this is another fake news; we are not leaving the APC. APC is our party. We formed it and we are solidly on ground to promote good governance and the governor is doing very well. “Some people are saying because of the endorsement by the PDP and some individuals; that is a sign that we are leaving the party. No. They should read it the other way. That is a sign that even other parties are accepting and agreeing to the fact that the governor of Edo State is working and he should be emulated and that is why he is having the endorsements. “This is the first time the APC and non-APC people are endorsing the governor and I think it should be a pride to everybody. So, when you talk about leaving the party, it is just one of those guys trying to create a problem,” he said. On the allegation that the deputy governor betrayed Oshiomhole, Shuaibu said: “The issue of betrayal is relative. Whoever has said I betrayed Oshiomhole, I don’t know what they meant by that. “Oshiomhole remains my father and I remain his son although at present we are on different pages politically and it is bound to happen. It doesn’t change the fact that he remains my father and it doesn’t change the fact that I remain his son but what is critical is that we have disagreed on the issue of the governor of Edo State. I am supporting Governor Obaseki because he has not changed what we believe in. He has not deviated from what Comrade Oshiomhole started and the foundation he laid,” Shuaibu insisted.