Within two weeks in January, the United States of America issued two bans on Nigeria and Nigerians. First it was a visa ban on pregnant Nigerian women who want to go to that country to have their babies. Visa officers were suddenly given more powers at the American embassy to block these women from visiting the United States so as to stop what they termed ‘birth tourism,’ or trips designed to obtain citizenship for their children. Then a week later, the Trump administration, all in a bid to expand its controversial travel ban policy, announced that immigrants from six countries, including Nigeria, will no longer be eligible for visas allowing them to live as permanent residents in the United States. What this means is that once the ban takes effect from February 21, Nigerian-Americans who are still processing the papers of their loved ones to migrate to the US would be stuck for as long as no one can predict. And the separation of families like is already the case with Latino migrants in the US would be replicated here. According to a White House proclamation on January 31, Nigeria’s failure to comply with security and information sharing requirements was cited as one of the reasons for the ban. Another reason was that Nigerians, because of this breach, are a high terror risk to the United States. All that the United States government is saying is that it is high time the Nigerian government adopted the use of biometric identification which has become a daily part of life in countries all over the world because of the massive advantage it provides to its users. It is no longer pleasant news to hear that Nigeria has not been able to, as a country, register every Nigerian born in the country. For a number of reasons, births are hardly ever recorded and deaths are almost never reported. So people keep living and those born are not accounted for. This primitive way of of doing things that relate to births and deaths encourages corruption and makes it difficult for any willing government to accurately plan for everyone in the country. It also contributes to the high level of insecurity that has become prevalent in the country. And so it’s only right for the American government to point this out again, as one of Nigeria’s weaknesses and hopefully, this time what needs to be done would be done to address the problem once and for all. The federal government needs to start by putting in place a plan to have an accurate census to determine the size of the nation’s population so as to stop relying on international bodies and organisations who have taken it upon themselves to estimate how many people there are in the country which will still be open to dispute as to its accuracy or lack of it. The last time there was a general census in the country, it was decided that the exercise would be done every 10 years, in compliance with the provisions of the Constitution. That was 14 years ago and we have not heard anything in that regard. A census will definitely help government map out a workable plan to have every Nigerian registered into a central data base with biometrics and all, to allow for easy tracking of the activities of citizens wherever they are in the country and the world. It will also give room for easy identification of foreigners who illegally enter the country every now and then to cause havoc when they get the chance. There is no doubt that Nigeria as a country has come of age and should not be accused of lacking in a number of things including not having proper documentation for her citizens, but sadly, that is the case. This ban should, therefore, serve as a wake-up call for government to go back to the drawing board so as to put the right things in place especially for the sanctity of our own society and to reduce the security challenges that have become the order of the day.