An analyst at FXTM, Lukman Otunuga, has thrown his weight behind the decision of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that it will not devalue the naira, insisting that devaluation could lead the country into hyperinflation. Inflation figures have been on the rise since last year September as it rose from 11.24 per cent to 11.98 in December last year. Otunuga while expressing worry over the rising inflation said it is an indication that “day-to-day living is becoming more expensive as prices of goods and services rise. “Part of the added inflationary pressures are because of border closures and food shortage fears. On a long-term basis, the naira’s softness feeds into the dam of rising inflation. Despite the threat of higher inflation, the CBN has ruled out devaluing the naira. He noted that policy makers have a point, as a weaker local currency may trigger worse consequences. “The overflowing dam could break and hyperinflation – a nightmare scenario for any emerging economy – could flood the economy,” he said. “The central bank’s reasoning for avoiding an official devaluation is that it holds ample foreign reserves to back the naira’s value. Policy makers are also banking on rising oil prices to shore up the $38.6 billion in foreign reserves, at the time of writing. “The CBN brushed off the steep drop in foreign reserves from $42 billion to $38 billion in the last months of 2019, pointing out that fluctuations are normal.” Commenting on the decision of the Monetary Policy Committee to keep benchmark rate and further tighten liquidity with an increase in Cash Reserve Requirement (CRR), Otunuga said the decision could add to economic pressures. The MPC had increased the CRR from 22.5 per cent to 27.5 per cent at its last meeting in January this year, leaving the monetary policy rate at 13.5 per cent and other parameters unchanged. According to Otunuga, the increased CRR while alleviating rising inflation “could add to everyday economic pressures. “A combination of high interest rates and less liquidity could squeeze corporate budgets, possibly leading to job losses and lower investment in development, not to mention increasing the chances of debt defaults. This may impact the stability of the banking sector in the medium-to-long term. “On the monetary policy side, higher oil prices are pulling in more foreign reserves. But as oil prices rise, so do fuel subsidies paid by the state, creating a precarious fiscal situation. Nigeria is now set to borrow N1.59 trillion to fund the 2020 budget and the government has increased VAT to 7.5 percent from five percent to boost tax revenues. “Other pressures bearing down on Nigeria’s economy stem from the US-China trade war which is frozen at the moment but could heat up at any time. China and Nigeria are strong trading partners and the health of the global economy. If the global economy slows down further, demand for oil would likely weaken and prices could experience more softness in the near term.”