Two people including a pregnant woman have been confirmed dead since the reported outbreak of Lassa Fever in Enugu State. On the whole,  6 suspected cases were reported, while the third victim, a 24year old female youth corps’ member, who just returned from Benue State, survived the attack and is responding to treatment. The Enugu State Ministries for Information, Health, Education, Water Resources and Agriculture on Friday at the state Secretariat, disclosed these at a press conference  that was  jointly addressed. It was gathered that the late pregnant woman died from Lassa fever as a result of reporting late to health facilities. According to the commissioner for information, Chidi Aroh, who presided at the conference, Enugu State government was being conscious of the scourge and is taking necessary steps to protect the people against it. Aroh stated that the state governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, has exhibited his leadership qualities in this direction and as a result, the management of the crisis was on course. “Jingles are being ran in radio and television stations for enlightenment, while leaflets on how to prevent the fever have been printed and are being distributed across the state. “ Government has purchased all required materials and equipment to fight the scourge, as well as providing emergency facilities in the event of any noticed occurrence in any part of the state,” Aroh hinted. He disclosed that apart from the 11 government hospitals mapped out for emergency, nine private hospitals have been added as emergency facilities, bringing the total to 20 hospitals across the state. Aroh further disclosed that the state government has directed the fumigation of all refuse dumps in the state with a view to ridding them of rodents. The permanent secretary in the Ministry of Health, Dr Ifeanyi Agujiobi, who also spoke at the conference,  assured that the scourge has been under control since the first reported case on January 2. He confirmed that the ministry has received full consignment of materials and equipment, adding that the health workers at various designated hospitals were being adequately protected. Agujiobi assured that efforts were being made to permanently uproot the source of the spread of the scourge, particularly rodent rats. Contributing, the commissioner for education, Prof Uchenna Eze, said he received directive from Governor Ugwuanyi, to reach out to every school in the state – primary, post primary and tertiary, and educate them on how to protect themselves against Lassa fever.