Here is something to look forward to in Abuja. We are planning to bring all the spine surgeons, nurses and physiotherapists into Abuja for the second diet of the Nigeria Spine Society’s conference. Termed Abuja 2020, the Organizing Committee have the pleasure to invite you all to attend the conference coming up on the 9th and 10th of July 2020. THEME: ABUJA2020: VISION FOR SPINE SURGERY IN NIGERIA Subtheme: RECENT ADVANCES IN SPINE SURGERY Spine practice has been going on in Nigeria for years without much organisation. Therefore, the stage was set for significant changes to be brought to bear on our practice. The initial impetus was the actual setting up of the NSS. That foresight has had a far-reaching effect in bringing about cohesiveness and cooperation among spine practitioners in Nigeria. We are now together in spirit and working as one to improve and standardize the practice of spine care (surgical and non-surgical) in Nigeria. The Spine Conference will emphasize on the vision of the spine society in Nigeria as we move into building a sustainable spine program. We have eminent professors, scientists, consultant surgeons, registrars and junior doctors from around the country to propagate the most advanced idea and technologies in spine care. We will have top-notch keynote lectures, speaker sessions, workshops, and abstract presentations from the length and breadth of the country. Subsequently, there will be symposia, case discussions and exhibitions demonstrating theories and practise in spine and it’s subspecialties. Abuja has never had it so good. Abuja FCT is the nation’s capital and the seat of government. Hence, we hope to actualise innovative decisions made at the conference as we espouse our vision for spine care. Abuja 2020 is coming after a highly acclaimed successful inaugural conference in Lagos in 2019. The inaugural conference organised in Lagos heralded this sea of change in our spine practice. The conference was well attended and well supported by industry and foreign partners: notably, Arab Health. We had much to be grateful for, as it was a great conference. We are passionately working to ensure this meeting be a grand success and memorable for the participants. We have made superlative plans for the conference in Abuja and want to reassure you of two main aspects: 1: The educational content will be varied and rich. 2: The social content will be full and thoroughly enjoyable by the majority. A glance through the list of presentations planned for the next two days reveals the amazing diversity and experience of our faculties and the depth of knowledge worth sharing. We have been particular in broadening the scope of the topics to include as much stuff as will impact our practice moving forward. Spine surgery is being delivered with better outcomes. There is great demand for our services and we must be prepared to meet the high expectations. Therefore, this conference in Abuja promises to help set traditions for future NSS conferences. The NSS has a special focus on capacity-building and so we have time for junior surgeons, trainees, allied staff and medical students at this conference. We intend to provide a superlative educational experience sprinkled with time-outs for fun and relaxation. You see, Abuja is a vibrant city with good road networks and ease of transportation from one end to the other. In this regards, the evening social events in this conference will allow participants to relax, de-clutter, recharge, ready for more learning. Come to Abuja and have a great time. The social events lined up for the attendees and accompanying guests will include a comedy and jazz night. One of the best comedians in Nigeria who is resident in Nigeria will welcome guests to a night of laughs and congeniality. Peter Ogbudu A.K.A Ghana Must Go is a comedian, entertainer and On Air Personality (Radio and TV) with a very good sense of humour. He is creatively spontaneous on stage with his catch phrases: Proudly 9ja, Fulfilled Delta and Confirm Warri Boy. There will be time for a game of golf at the IBB International golf and country club for golf enthusiasts and those already addicted to golf.