Members of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has raised concerns on the rising inflation in the country as they called on the federal government to take decisive steps to curtail the persistent fiscal deficit and burgeoning debt of the country. From the N12.118 trillion level of indebtedness as at June 2015, Nigeria’s public debt had grown to N26.215 trillion as at the end September last year. This represents a growth of over N14 trillion of additional borrowings by the federal and state governments in the country within the span of five years. The personal statements of the MPC members at the first meeting of the year held in last month, revealed concerns by most of the members on the sustainability of the debt rate of the country as well as inflation which is at the ceiling of 12 per cent which the apex bank had set. Inflation figures for December 2019 stood at 11.98 and is expected to further trend upward this year. Edward Adamu, a deputy governor and chairman of the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), in his personal statement noted that headline inflation was almost at the upper limit of 12 per cent which is the optimal threshold for the economy, and if not addressed, could soon begin to undermine economic growth. Adamu who had voted to raise the cash reserve ratio to rein-in excess liquidity in the system and stem inflationary expectations, said consumer price pressures had been bolstered by increased liquidity and a variety of structural constraints. A member of the MPC, Adenikinju Festus who expressed concerns over the persistent inflation in the country noted that the committee “should not ignore the inflation threat. The primary responsibility of the CBN remains price stability.” The inflationary concerns had also been raised by Joseph Nnanna, who expressed worry over the risks to the macroeconomic stability of the country. The risks, to him “remain the twin deficits which the economy is belabouring under and the persistent inflationary pressures arising from expansionary fiscal and accommodating monetary policies. “The combination of Ways and Means financing and weak fiscal buffers have resulted to a fiscal deficit of about N3.68 trillion, 3.5 per cent of GDP and a current account deficit of $2.79 billion, 2.24 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP), in Q3 2019, respectively. “The gross external reserves is sufficient in the short-to-medium term. However, the level of import is weighing on the current account. Nonetheless, it is noteworthy that the composition of visible imports is changing predominantly to capital goods, raw material and durable consumer goods. While strong diaspora remittances are expected to be a tailwind to mitigating a potentially higher current account deficits in the short-to-medium term.” On his part, Obadan Mike, noted that the federal government’s persistent fiscal deficits and the corresponding debt accumulation have continued to be worrisome in view of the implications for monetary policy effectiveness and debt sustainability. “The federal government fiscal operations from January to September 2019 resulted in a deficit of N3.466 trillion,” Obadan said, adding, “The government borrowed from the domestic markets through the issuance of FGN bonds amounting to N670 billion in order to finance the budget deficit. “This left a net overall deficit of N2.796 trillion which may have been largely financed from non-budgetary sources in which event it contributes not only to excess liquidity and monetary inflation in the economy, but also to public debt accumulation and crowding out of private investments in the financial markets.” 