Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has said plans are in top gear for his administration to roll out fresh youth and women empowerment programmes in the state. This revelation was made on Wednesday in Lokoja at the end of the first State Executive Council Meeting in Lokoja following the council’s Inauguration last week. The State Commissioner for Information and Communication, Hon Kingsley Fanwo and his counterpart in the ministry of Finance, Budget and Economic Planning, Hon Idris Asiwaju Ashiru briefed journalists at the end of meeting. Hon Fanwo stressed that Governor Bello, who is the Chairman of Council, had stated his determination to ensure more youth and women are empowered in the state and that a new programme will soon be rolled out to help in addressing unemployment and reduce poverty rate among the people of the state. He added that Governor Bello further reiterated his commitment to the development, Unity and Security of the state and called on his commissioners to imbibe the culture of service to the people. The Governor, the commissioner stated, had also reiterated the determination of his administration to ensure there is a performance appraisal in all the ministries periodically to ensure those appointed to serve in public offices are on top of their game to ensure quality service delivery to the citizens. “On the communal clash in Iyano that is raring its ugly head, the Governor has directed that measures be put in place to ensure security of lives and property are guaranteed. Those measures are still being discussed at security strategies level and the administration will roll out its plans in that regard in days to come and the press will be informed of the measures. He also introduced his new female ADC to the Exco. It is the first time a sitting Governor would appoint a female to be his Aide De Camp. Proponents of gender equality will be very happy to hear the story. That is His Excellency’s a way of encouraging such equality in the society. The Governor had earlier sworn members of the new Executive Council to an oath of secrecy which was conducted by the state commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Muhammed Sani Ibrahim (SAN). 