Egypt yesterday became the first African country to record the first case of coronavirus (COVID-19) which broke out in China in December 2019 and has claimed hundreds of victims. The country’s health officials confirmed that Egypt has had the first case of the novel coronavirus. The nationality of the person was not given in a joint statement by the health ministry and  the population ministry. According to agency report, Egyptian authorities have notified the World Health Organization and the patient has been placed in isolation in a hospital for treatment and monitoring, AFP reported. In reaction to speculations that there are confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country, the federal government has explained that two cases that met the case definition for the virus were tested and found negative, while two other cases are currently undergoing series of tests. The director-general of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, stated this at a press briefing in Abuja. He said that “at least we have had 30 investigations of people that have called us for one reason or the other. Out of that, two of them have met the case definition, that is, the person will have to have returned in the last 14 days. “The two cases were tested and were found negative. Last night, we had another two, and tests are going on at the moment. As soon as they are completed, it will be announced. If a person returns to the country, say within 20 or 30 days, there is no point wasting reagents to test such a person. “For other diseases, we usually advise people to go to the hospitals to get tested, but for suspected cases of Covid-19, patients are advised to simply put a call through to us, we will come to the patient because going to the hospital can amplify the disease if it is found to be positive. “Be rest assured that if there is a positive case, we will be the first to announce it. So, if you see something on social media that a number of people have died of the virus in Nigeria, it is simply a rumour. It is not possible that it will happen because there are only three labs in Nigeria that run these tests<” he said Also, the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has restated that the country has the capacity to test for the Covid-19, in three major states across the country – Abuja, Lagos, and Irrua in Edo State. Ehanire said that “Nigeria’s level of preparedness is very high despite the fact that there are reports that the Covid-19 has a fatality rate of about two per cent, which is not too high but spreads very rapidly.” He said that the country’s frontline for defence against viruses are the port health services in Lagos, Abuja, Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu, with Lagos having the highest traffic volume. “Our national risk assessment is that the route for the importation is by air through the international borders. It is less likely by sea and over land because of the distance between Nigeria and China,” he stated. Ehanire added the fact that there is no direct airline connection gives the country hope that if there are any cases that are possibly in transit, they wiill probably have been detected at the transit points of changing planes before they get into the country. In his words, “I have met twice with the Chinese ambassador to Nigeria and he has told me that there are about 60 Nigerians in Wuhan, China, and no Nigerian is sick or has anything that is near this virus infection. The Chinese government is providing them with food and supplies like its own citizens.” “We have enough reagents, and the Chinese ambassador told us that they are supplying 2,000 reagents which are used for the machines that identify the virus. They supplied 2,000 doses to Africa Centre for Disease Control, to be delivered to any African country that has need for it. They have also given us their treatment protocols. Also, our doctors are being trained with simulations in case there is an outbreak in the country,” the minister said.