The executive chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Mr. Muhammad Nami says non-discretionary tax waiver grants, illicit financial flows abroad and high overhead costs have been the major reasons why the FIRS often find it difficult to meet its tax revenue targets. The tax chairman made the claim yesterday in Abuja at a Senate interactive session with revenue generating agencies, which was aimed to improve the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the federal government through non-oil revenue sources. According to Mr. Nami, Nigeria loses a lot of revenue through tax waivers granted to big companies which otherwise would have been taxed to raise government revenues. He also added that illicit financial flow is a major cause of revenue loss to Nigeria besides the operational cost of the FIRS which he said is “high compared” to the statutory provisions for the running of the organisation. “I am new in the FIRS but upon my assumption of office, I have discovered that these, among other factors, contributed to making the FIRS unable to meet its target in recent times,” Nami stated. Consequently, Mr. Nami canvassed better official discretion in granting tax waivers, even as he assured that he is working hard at the FIRS in collaboration with relevant government agencies to stem illicit financial flow, especially via profit shifting by multinationals operating in the country. The FIRS chief urged the National Assembly to assist the FIRS in this regard in order to increase government revenue towards the modernization of public infrastructure in the country, according to a statement made available to the media in Abuja by Director, Communications and Liaison Department, FIRS, Abdullahi Ismaila Ahmad. Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, who chaired the event, charged the revenue-generating agencies to do better, stressing that “the revenue profile of the country is going down.” Lawan added: “We believe that revenue generating agencies of government can do better. The National Assembly wants to help you in terms of legislative support and even with some incentives to ensure that your targets are met. “Revenue agencies must meet their targets. They must aim higher. When they are not able to meet their targets, we ask them questions. There should be no reason why targets should not be met. But if anyone has any reason, we can also listen to him to know how genuine it is.” In his contribution, chairman, Senate Committee on Finance, Senator Solomon Adeola, stated that “it is our belief that revenue accrual to the government will increase when we have interactive sessions like this. This interactive session is going to hold quarterly.”