The federal government has enjoined workers and other Nigerians in the informal sector to establish cooperative societies for easy access to affordable housing across the states. The minister of State for Works and Housing, Engr Abubakar Aliyu, stated this during the inspection of the ongoing rehabilitation of Cham – Numan section of Gombe-Numan-Yola road. He noted that by floating cooperative societies it would afford them the opportunity to partner with the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) and accomplish their dream of home ownership. The minister hinted that federal government is committed to delivering standard roads that would last longer. Responding to a question on the expected delivery date for the road, he said, “We don’t deliver roads because of politics, we will deliver roads that will stand the test of time for Nigerians to enjoy the benefit for a long-lasting time.” The minister explained that the section of the Cham-Numan road was delayed as the 11 kilometres portion of the Savannah swamp area contained bad/soft soil, which he said must be evacuated, replaced and refilled. Aliyu reiterated the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari to deliver the promises made to Nigerians on the provision of good roads, saying that the administration is showing strong determination to fulfil the promises in other sectors such as housing, rails and among others. He hinted that the ministry’s budgetary allocation rose to N200 billion compared to the N19 billion they met in 2015, given PMB’s determination to open-up more roads across the States. Briefing the minister earlier on the rehabilitation of the Cham-Numan section of Gombe-Numan-Yola, the Federal Controller of Works, Engr Salihu Abubakar said that the frequent clashes between farmers and herdsmen were the major challenges that delayed the completion of the project. Abubakar informed that the contractor is presently on site working due to favourable weather, saying that over 4,250 direct and indirect jobs were created through the project. 