The Federal Minister of Interior, Engr. Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, openly applauded Huawei as a global technology company which has made many contributions to Nigeria and has served as a trustworthy ICT partner of Nigeria for more than 20years. He made this statement during an opening ceremony and handover of some education facilities donated to Ogedengbe High School of Sciences, one of the oldest serving schools in Ilesa, Osun State by Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited. The Federal Minister said “Huawei is a global tech giant and has been operating in Nigeria for over two decades and has proven itself as a trustworthy ICT partner for Nigeria. “Huawei has been very supportive of the development of Nigeria through technology innovation, knowledge transfer, talents training and CSR activities such as this. We will continue to work with Huawei to better the lots of all Nigerian citizens” “I thank Huawei for funding the construction of this much needed infrastructure and providing these facilities which will enable the students learn in a more comfortable environment. The company has done this in fulfilment of its corporate social responsibility. As we know, education remains the best way for a firm to plough back into community. The better the education of the people, the better the output in the society” The Managing Director, Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited, Mr. Eric Zhang Lulu, in his goodwill statement expressed gratitude for the opportunity to give back to Nigeria. He said “Huawei has been operating in Nigeria for 21 years now has stayed committed to the lives of Nigerians across different social classes. As part of our contribution, we believe in making technology accessible to all. Technology should not be for the few but for everyone” Huawei has been investing strongly in digital skills and knowledge transfer in Nigeria. So far, the company has trained more than 20,000 ICT engineers who manages the telecommunications network operations and maintenance over the country. Huawei has also collaborated with more than 75 universities in Nigeria to build ICT academies which trains Nigerian students in the latest international ICT skills for free. A total of over 10,000 Nigerian student have benefitted from this program.