As part of its determination to improve the living standards of Nigerians, President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) has lifted communities in Bwari area council with flood, erosion control and road projects in order to attract more economic opportunities in the area. The soil erosion and flood control project were sited at Public Service Institute of Nigeria (PSIN), Kubwa, while the gully erosion and road rehabilitation were constructed at Sagwari layout Dutse. Both projects were commissioned and handed over to the beneficiaries by the Ecological Fund Office (EFO) yesterday. Speaking at PSIN, President Buhari enjoined the host community to ensure the sustainability of the project and avoid using it as refuse dump to avoid wasting the resources of federal government. The president who was represented by the FCT Minister, Mallam Muhamamd Bello said that the project is an indication of PMB’s efforts to produce the needed infrastructure in the community adding that one of his cardinal principles is to protect all public infrastructures. On her part, the permanent secretary of EFO, Dr Hadiza Lawal noted that the project was initiated through a request by the former head of Civil Service, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita on the need to arrest the continuous flooding and erosion menace in PSIN, to avoid further environmental degradation, loss of lives and properties. Lawal who was represented by the EFO director of Soil Erosion & Flood Control, Engr. Felix Okeke said that the timely completion of the project was made possible through the project contractor and consultant, who worked tirelessly to ensure minimum loss of time in the project implementation schedule. Also speaking, the administrator of PSIN, Mr Abdul-Ganiyu Obatoyinbo noted that the project has transformed the institute due to several years of erosion and flooding especially at the guest house, adding that since PSIN is prone to soil and ecological challenges that they would request the assistance of EFO from time to time. He further pleaded with the federal government to build channelization for water embarkment and plant more trees to reduce the effect of dusty wind that has been threatening the institute. At Sagwari layout, Dutse, the minister called on Nigerians to appreciate the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari in bringing massive development to the area council and lamented the inability of the area council to build people-oriented project in the community.  Engr Okeke noted that the commissioning and handing over of the project was expected to achieve the dual purpose of enabling the host community to take over and exercise ownership over the project. The vice chairman of Sagwari layout Dutse, Engr Ben Ginikanwa hinteds that the community has been grappling with the effects of flooding for several years before the intervention and thanked PMB for bringing change to the residents. 