Ikeja Electric Plc (IE), said it has successfully reduced its Aggregate Technical and Commercial Collection Losses (ATC&C) losses from about 31.3 per cent last year to 24.5 per cent presently. The chief operating officer of the company, Folake Soetan, who disclosed this while giving highlights of the Disco’s performance also noted that it took a bold step towards improved sustainable power through the bilateral initiative as well as  introduction of e-billing system. ATC & C is the difference between the amount of electricity received by a Distribution Company from the Transmission Company and the amount of electricity for which it invoices its customers plus the adjusted collections loss. Speaking further she said: “We are committed to providing access to affordable and reliable power supply in line with the SDG 7 as we pursue our vision of being the provider of choice where energy is consumed. “In 2020, we will deliver exceptional service to our customers, improve the quality of power supply and partner with the key industry players to build a sustainable power sector in Nigeria. ‘We are Ikeja Electric, We bring Energy to Live’,” she noted. According to her, the company was committed to providing access to affordable and reliable power supply in line with the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG 7) in pursuance of its vision of being the provider of choice where ever energy is consumed. The Disco has continued to demonstrate its commitment to improved service delivery by working in line with Meter Asset Provider (MAP) Scheme to close the metering gap. It introduced E-billing (electronic billing) system which enables effective delivery of bills to customers via SMS, email and USSD platforms. And recently announced the IE Mobile App which allows customers to view their bills, make complaints, request connection, check supply availability and chat live.  With its customers spread across the northern part of Lagos State and parts of Ogun State, Ikeja Electric operates through the six Business Units located in Ikeja, Oshodi, Akowonjo, Ikorodu, Shomolu and Abule-Egba.