In this report, MUH’D ZANGINA KURA takes a look at how conflict of interest is threatening the establishment of a University Teaching Hospital in Jigawa State. It’s no longer news that the raging conflict of interest between academics and politicians in Jigawa State over where to site the proposed Teaching Hospital of the Federal University Dutse (FUD), is already threatening to nullify all efforts toward establishing a College of Medicine in the university. This is, however, coming at a time when most observers rated the Federal University Dutse to be among the leading ivory towers in the country in terms of both structural development and academic excellence. As part of its 30-year plan, the university, which is nine-year-old now, has set up Medical College for the production of human resources needed to tackle the huge gap that still exist in the country’s healthcare system. And for the university to achieve such an agenda, a standard Teaching Hospital is an indispensable arm for the students to undergo practical training and also provide tertiary healthcare services to the public. Bearing in mind also that one of the basic criterion needed to secure accreditation from the National University Commission (NUC), the leadership of the university kicked-started the move by setting up a committee to commence searching for A suitable location for the establishment of the Teaching Hospital. The committee, which consists of professionals and other critical stakeholders, was set up three years ago with the mandate to go round and search for any existing health facilities that can be converted to a Teaching Hospital for the university. Bearing these terms of reference in mind, the committee finally located Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital as the most suitable for the commencement of the Teaching Hospital for Federal University Dutse. The existing hospital is located less than four kilometers away from the university’s site with befitting structures and available land for future expansion. Among some of the major considerations for choosing Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital is not only because it’s situated in the state capital, Dutse, where the university also located, but that it also has a conducive atmosphere and it’s strategically located close to the Jigawa State Command Police Headquarters and State High Court complex. The Jigawa State government owns the specialist hospital and it takes only few days for state government to approve the release of the hospital for conversion to a Teaching Hospital to be owned by the Federal Government with no stringent conditions. The scenario of Rasheed Shekoni Hospital and Federal University Dutse in terms of location can be likened to that of Bayero University Kano and its Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital in Kano and Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria and its Teaching Hospital few kilometers away in Shika, among other examples across the nation. Rather than becoming a source of encouragement, the recent visit by the Minister of Health, Mr. Osagie Ehanire, to the state government has, however, created more tensions among the students and university authorities, thus paving ways for allegations and counter-allegations among politicians in the state. Many are of the opinion that there were concealed motives to the minister’s visit to Dutse, despite the fact that the minister made his mission very clear while in the state. Speaking during a courtesy visit to state’s deputy governor, Alhaji Umar Namadi, the Ehanire stated that his team was in the state to assess and select one from the two tertiary health facilities of Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital and the Federal Medical Center, Birnin Kudu for the Teaching Hospital project. According to the minister, the University Teaching Hospital is non-negotiable as only that will enable medical students acquire the prerequisite knowledge for becoming health practitioners. The minister said whatever decision the team would take would definitely be in the best interest of both the university students and the state. In his response, the state deputy governor, Namadi, said the state government has already put in place mechanism that will ensure at least one secondary health facility is established in each local government area of the state. He maintained that the establishment of the teaching hospital would help in producing manpower to manage the hospitals in the state and other parts of the country for effective public healthcare service delivery. Also, for his part, the Emir of Dutse, Alhaji Muhammadu Nuhu Sunusi, charged the team to be fair in their selection of one of the either of the two tertiary health facilities by also considering the students’ comfort. The emir who noted that, despite the two tertiary health facilities are domiciled within his controlled emirate, however pleaded with the minister and his team to put into consideration the students whom may be at the receiving end of whatever decision reached. Also speaking when she received the delegation in her office, the Vice Chancellor of FUD, Prof. Fatima Batulu, told the team that the state government had released the Rasheed Shekoni Specialist Hospital to the university for the teaching hospital since about three years ago. Though, the subconscious body language of the minister and some members of his entourage created suspicion among the students and other stakeholders who alleged that some politicians might have influenced or predetermined the selection of the facility. The suspicion had already sparked off public outrage with series of reactions and counter-reactions from different quarters in the state. Speaking on a condition of anonymity, one of the University lecturer faulted the desperation of some politicians who want the teaching hospital sited at Federal Medical Center Birnin Kudu for self-centered interest as against the overall objectives for the establishment of the college. He said, the university has already started committing its resources in the Rasheed Shekoni Hospital, including building student’s hostel for the commencement of training this year. “Looking at the latest equipment and manpower in Rasheed Shekoni Hospital and the work so far started by the university, I very am confident that we will get NUC accreditation. But if  FMC is selected it will delay the university with not less than three years to fulfilled the required criteria for accreditation”. In his submission, the president of the university student’s union comrade described the two facilities as incomparable in all aspect. “I followed the minister during his visits to the two facilities. FMC is located 56 km away from the university, all the buildings there are old, with no latest equipment, the road to Birnin Kudu is very terrible, in two years, the School of Nursing, Birnin Kudu lost 15 students who ply the road from Dutse capital as a result of different auto crash”. “While Rasheed Shekoni hospital is just 4km away from the university, the buildings there are latest with modern equipment needed for such medical training. “Therefore, both in terms of proximity with a conducive environment for learning, space for future expansions, students and lectures safety, Rasheed Shekoni Hospital are the most appropriate. And on behalf of all the university students, I am calling on federal government to consider it as a better choice”. On her side, a two hundred level medicine student of the university, Miss Farida called on federal government and all other stakeholder to avoid politicization the choice of the hospital. She maintained that, most of the medical students are from low income families and it will be very detrimental to subject them to unnecessary daily expenses and long distance stress in the course of their study. “I wonder what brought about the issue of Federal Medical Center Birnin Kudu in this matter that has been sealed long ago. It is not a contest. It is a matter of doing what is right, and we students are hundred percent in support of our university’s decision. “The university family have chosen Rasheed Shekoni Hospital and it has started erecting structures inside it, but now, some people want to play politics with our future. We pray for this dangerous nepotism not to see the light of the day,” the student declared.