A forum operating under the aegis of All Progressives Congress (APC) Unity Group  yesterday threw its weight behind the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, by submitting a letter of vote of confidence at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. The coordinator of the group, Jonathan Ade, while submitting the letter stressed that the chairman is on the right path and as such members of the group who cut across different geo-political zones of the country gathered to show their support and stood in solidarity with him. “The chairman is on the right parth, all representatives here cut cross different geo-political zones, the party is not meant for some individuals who want to do as they  will, he brought discipline and so a lot  of people are kicking against him. He is on the right path, people clamouring for his removal are no longer members of the party, our letter is in our solidarity with him”, he said. Continuing, he stated that:  “We are using this medium to congratulate you for your dogged fight in maintaining the victory of our great party at the centre in the 2019 general elections including the reorganization of the 9th National Assembly through the party apparatus. This is no doubt a display of national interest which is paramount”. The group consisting of FCT market women among others could be seen with placards reading inscriptions such as: “Elite gang up against Oshiomhole won’t work”, “ Oshiomhole is getting the job done”, to drive home their message. Representing market women, Iyaloja of FCT, Chief Oluwatoyin Badmos, noted that women are majority of voters in the country who stand for peace  even as she stressed on unity within the party. “Women come out en mass to vote, we the genuine members are in solidarity with APC chairman, it’s a family problem let them treat  it as such, there is bound to be problems in human dealings. When it’s time for convention, anyone who wants to be chairman of APC can contest for it”. Receiving the letter on behalf of the party, Ag. Director of admin. APC office, Hon Danimoh Abdulsalam, commended the group for peaceful the protest while assuring them the party is working on peaceful resolution of issues within the party “I want to thank you, on behalf of members and staff of the APC, Comrade  Oshiomole, APC chairman, for  the way and manner you conducted yourselves peacefully. Hope you continue in that manner. I want to and assure you your letter will be delivered to the national chairman and the president. A committee of reconciliation has been set up through the National Working Committee,  I believe in a democracy, people are bound to have divergent views” he said.