The Senate yesterday linked killings, kidnappings, banditry and other forms of insecurity in the country to the proliferation of small arms and light weapons. The Senate also accused the security agencies of giving weapons to criminals, even as the lawmakers indicted the Nigeria Customs Service and Nigeria Immigration Service of conniving with criminals who illegally smuggle arms and ammunition into the country. These comments were made during yesterday‘s Senate debate on a Bill entitled „a Bill for an Act to provide for the establishment of the Nigeria National Commission against the Proliferation of Small Arms and Light Weapons and for Related Matters,“ sponsored by Senator Smart Adeyemi. The Bill, which passed second reading on the floor of the Senate, was referred to the Senate Committee on National Security and Intelligence, to report back in two weeks for further legislative actions. In his lead debate, Senator Adeyemi said that the Bill, which was read for the first time in the Senate yesterday, sought to provide for the establishment of the national commission against the proliferation of small arms and light weapons to coordinate and implement activities to combat the problems of small arms and light weapon in Nigeria in line with ECOWAS’ statutes on small arms and light weapons. The lawmaker said that the objectives of the Bill include: “To identify sources and main routes of these small arms, ammunition and light weapons; to identify why this illicit trade thrives in Nigeria; to liaise with the relevant authorities, agencies and organisations with the aim of tackling the menace; to recommend possible ways to monitor, control, halt and mitigate these nagging illegal activities of unscrupulous persons, companies and organizations; to itemize and identify promoters, users, patrons and reasons for these illegal activities;  to put in place all other machinery needed for successful prosecution of this campaign to combat illegal importation small arms, ammunition and light weapons; and to ensure prosecution of all smugglers of illegal weapons and goods caught, among others. Adeyemi pointed out that the proliferation of small arms and light weapons (SALWs) was not only eating into the survival of emerging nations in the international scene, especially in Africa, but also a phenomenon that is destabilising the peace, development and threatening the national security of sovereign nations. “Small arms and light weapons are readily available, easy to use and have been the primary, or sole tool of violence in almost all conflicts in every part of the globe. These weapons of terror are in the hands of irregular troops operating with scant respect for international and humanitarian law. They have taken a heavy toll on human lives, with women and children accounting for nearly 80 percent of the casualties. “The proliferation of these weapons affects the intensity and duration of violence and encourages militancy rather than a peaceful resolution of unsettled differences.” Adeyemi remarked that in Nigeria, the phenomenon had become a serious security challenge. “There is general insecurity as most parts of the country experience high level crimes perpetrated using illicit arms. The UN estimated that a substantial percentage of illegal arms that is in circulation in West Africa is in Nigeria. “This has fuelled violent conflicts as witnessed in the Niger Delta, kidnapping in the South East, armed robbery pandemic in the South West, ethnic/religious violence on the Plateau, and the Boko Haram  operations in the North East, a situation which has plunged the nation into a serious state of insecurity,” he said. According to him, uncontrolled arms have also impacted on the country‘s democracy and development negatively in the forms of electoral violence by gun-wielding thugs and assassinations of several political leaders since 1999, which have jeopardized free and fair elections in many states of the federation. Speaking further the lawmaker said, „There are numerous ways by which small arms can be smuggled into the country because of their light-weight and concealable nature. Trucks have been used to smuggle arms into the country, while a number of them are brought in on donkeys, camels and on foot. “Similarly, SALWs are transported through waterways. Boat-loads of arms from the Great Lake‘s conflict areas have been reported to have been discharged at Warri and Bonny towns of Niger Delta. Also Small Arms Survey (SAS) had reported on Malian arms smugglers packing small arms in waterproof sacks, attaching them into bottom of boats for transfer to countries along the River Niger. “The use of aircraft to transport weapons internationally and regionally is also common in the West African sub region. Here military planes play active roles in large intercontinental illicit arms transfer arranged by international brokers.” The lawmaker estimated the cost of establishing the Nigeria National Commission in the first twelve months as follows: „Projected Recurrent Expenditure (Salaries and Allowances of personnel), N230,176,123.36. “Projected Recurrent Expenditure  (Maintenance of vehicles, management costs of offices and Other contingency) N64,744, 000.00. “Estimated Capital Expenditure (Office accommodation, furniture, etc N160,000,000.000. Estimated Capital Expenditure (Purchase of vehicles) Total Projected/Estimated Costs for First Year- N4, 000, 000.00 and Commencement of the Board, N521, 920, 123.36.“ Senator Adamu Aliero, while supporting the passage of the bill, accused men of the Nigerian Customs Service of conniving with arms dealers to smuggle in small arms into the country through the borders. He added that if the bill is not passed into law by the National Assembly, violence will continue unabated. Another lawmaker, Emmanuel Bwacha, in his contribution, cited the United States as a country without strong gun control laws, adding that “they are paying dearly for it today”. “It is better to have a control of arms than allow every Dick and Harry to possess arms. In doing this, we must do it with genuine intention,” Bwacha said. Contributing to the debate, Senator Abdullahi Adamu (APC, Nasarawa West) lamented that the proliferation of small arms had become a thriving business because those involved in the illicit trade are not apprehended by the relevant security agencies. Senator Francis Fadahunsi, on his part, pointed out that military and police personnel reportedly steal weapons from their armouries. Sen. Ibrahim Gobir, alleged that immigration and Customs have connived with criminals to proliferate illegal arms and ammunition  in the country, adding, „we have local manufacturers on illegal arms and ammunition supplying criminals with their products.“ Senator Amos Bulus lamented that the government does not have the will to prosecute those involved in gun running in the country, adding, “we know those that are involved. We don‘t have the will power to take action where the need arises. For instance so many people have been arrested at Tinkers island but till day nothing has been done.“       