The director-general of the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) of the United Nation, QU Dongyu has raised the alarm over the impending humanitarian crisis that could hit Africa if greater and faster action were not taken to prevent the Desert Locust upsurge in East Africa. QU who said that already seven countries have been affected with a threat to spread even further, spells doom for the continent already facing serious hunger challenge. The director-general was addressing donors and representatives from the affected countries at a joint breakfast meeting in New York with Mark Lowcock, the United Nations under-secretary-general for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief coordinator. Qu said, “Today the locust outbreak is the worst to strike Ethiopia and Somalia for 25 years and the worst infestation that Kenya has experienced in 70 years. Djibouti, and Eritrea are also affected, and since FAO’s initial appeal swarms have spread to the northern edges of Uganda and Tanzania.” He noted that FAO has so far received around $22 million of the $76 million requested to assist the five countries initially impacted. But he expected needs to increase amid concern that the outbreak will continue to spread to other countries. “It is clear that already vulnerable populations could easily be pushed into a major humanitarian crisis unless we act fast to protect their livelihoods,” Qu said. “If we get a fast response going now, we are confident that we can contain the problem. But for that to happen we need to accelerate decision-making and funding,” Lowcock said. “Any delay in finalising decisions has a knock-on effect on the response. If we are too slow, far more people will suffer and bear the consequences of our inaction in a few months’ time,” he added. Qu said a further 20 million in the region are on the verge of slipping into acute food insecurity if the locusts continue to spread. Potential large-scale impact on crops and pasturelands in the region would have devastating consequences, not just for household production but regional food supplies and food markets, possibly sparking a food crisis. “I fully support implementing anticipatory action to safeguard the livelihoods of affected and at risk populations and also building resilience in communities to prevent potential crises,” the Director-General said. The director-general said FAO is helping governments and other partners with monitoring and surveillance and coordination assistance during control operations. Qu thanked the EU, Germany, USAID, Belgium and the UN Central Emergency Response Fund for their aid contributions, as well as Sweden, Denmark, The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and Switzerland who have also provided donations. The Desert Locust is considered the most destructive migratory pest in the world and a small swarm covering one square kilometer can eat the same amount of food in one day as 35,000 people. Keith Cressman, FAO’s senior locust forecasting officer, said, “Locusts are a rolling crisis, we can’t eradicate them all at once but we have a very short window of time to act.” Pasture and croplands have already suffered damage in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia,Djibouti and Eritrea and there are potentially severe consequences for the region where nearly 13 million people are coping with severe acute food insecurity and many rely on agriculture and livestock rearing for their survival.