The resurgence of oil search in Nigeria over the past few years has been dramatic. And because exploration and production activity generates a substantial economic stimulus, the North will soon host a deluge of oil majors writes CHIKA IZUORA. Nigeria has remained a point of reference in Africa and on the global stage and this stem from the fact that it is one of the largest exporters of crude oil to developed and developing nations of the world. For more than three decades therefore, crude oil has been the major hub of the energy, revenue and foreign exchange earnings for the Nigerian economy. Nigeria has also set an ambitious target of producing about three million barrels of crude oil a day and 40 billion reserves. This target requires sustained oil search across suspected oil bearing basins and addressing poor security structure that often leads to infractions on oil facilities. The Niger Delta has been the hub of oil exploration in the country comprising of wetlands and dry lands which covers about 70,000sq.kilometres. The region which consist of a number of distinct ecological zones, coastal ridge barriers, mangrove swamps, fresh water swamps, forests, and lowland rain forest is dominated by rural communities that depend solely on the natural environment for subsistence living. According to UNDP Report (2006), more than seventy percent of the people depend on natural environment for their livelihood. The region is home to more than 10 million people. Many Nigerians perceive the Niger Delta as synonymous with the oil producing areas of Nigeria. In other words, the Niger Delta includes the states of Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Imo, Ondo and Rivers. The region is blessed with abundance of human and physical resources, including the majority of Nigeria’s oil and gas deposits, good agricultural lands, extensive forests, excellent fisheries, as well as with a well-developed industrial base. However, committing some energy in the search for oil in the north was perceived as a way of providing structures that will ensure energy security for Nigerians considering that the Niger Delta region was becoming volatile in terms of militancy. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), which was in the vanguard of search has vowed to develop a framework that works towards ensuring energy security in Nigeria. The NNPC maintained its commitment to ensure that the needed energy is available for the needs of the country. It acknowledges the global clamour for energy transition from fossil fuels to renewable sources but has the belief that hydrocarbons will continue to form the larger part of the energy mix in the foreseeable future. Several researches continue to confirm that by 2040, renewables will be contributing about 20 per cent of the global energy mix and this implies that fossil fuels will still contribute at least 70 per cent. Federal government sees oil exploration in the North as a continuous effort to utilise the hydrocarbon resources to develop energy sources for the growing population. The focus at this point according to NNPC is making sure that the energy is clean as oil is being found in unexpected places. This contributes to the growth of middle class consumers so demand of fuel will continue with increase with population and prosperity. The New Oil Frontier Hub On October 10, 2019, the NNPC drilling crew working at Kolmani River-II in Gongola Basin encountered hydrocarbon outflow to the wellhead while testing. Preliminary evidence from the exploration area revealed that the hydrocarbon deposits consist of gas, condensate, and light, sweet crude of American Petroleum Institute (API) gravity between 38 and 41 degrees. While the bulk of Nigeria’s energy wealth is concentrated in the prolific Niger Delta, exploration for oil in the North East (Gongola and Chad basins) picked up recently, and this particular find is a major victory for NNPC in its quest to identify new hydrocarbon basins outside of the South-South region. The exploration team is yet to provide estimates of hydrocarbon quantities, but should the find be significant, Nigeria’s Reserve: Production ratio just got a major boost. Besides, this find is expected to spur concerted exploration in and around the region for more hydrocarbon deposits. New, commercially viable finds can coincide with the complete overhaul of the four national refineries (including Kaduna) scheduled for completion around 2023. Crude and gas feedstock can come from that area to the Kaduna refinery, rather than transporting via pipelines from the South-South. This find is also significant because it opens up opportunities for new Oil and Gas infrastructure (including pipelines, terminals & gas processing facilities) to reduce Nigeria’s deficit and underdeveloped value chain within the sector. According to president of Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationists, Alex Tarka, the expectations here is that investors will tap the potential of modular refineries to process crude and facilitate development of the regional value chain. New retail stations will open up a nascent export market in neighbouring Chad and Niger, while thermal power stations in and around the North-East/North-West will also benefit of gas (Associated/NonAssociated) from the discoveries. Massive Explorations There are indications that this discovery might open up conversations around resource control and a review of the derivation formula. The discovery is coming eight months after President Buhari flagged off the exploration of oil in the Kolmani River II Well on the Upper Benue Trough, Gongola Basin, in the North-Eastern part of the country. According to Samson Makoji, the Acting Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, of NNPC, the corporation acquired 435.54km2 of 3D Seismic Data over Kolmani Prospect in the Upper Benue Trough, Gongola Basin. The essence was to evaluate Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company, (SNEPCo), Kolmani River 1 well discovery of 33 BCF while exploring deeper levels. Makoji said the oil well was drilled to a total depth of 13,701feet with “IKENGA RIG 101″ where they encountered several layers of oils and gas. He added that a Drill Stem Test (DST) would be carried out to determine the commercial viability and flow of the Kolmani River reservoirs. He said, “On Thursday 10th October 2019, at 18:02 hours, one of the reservoirs was perforated and hydrocarbon started flowing to the wellhead at 21:20hours in which the gas component was flared to prevent air charge around the rig. “Preliminary reports indicate that the discovery consists of gas, condensate and light sweet oil of API gravity ranging from 38 to 41 found in stacked siliciclastic Cretaceous reservoirs of Yolde, Bima Sandstone and Pre-Bima formations. Computation of hydrocarbon volume is on-going and will be announced in due course. “The Corporation has also acquired additional 1183km2 of 3D seismic data over highly prospective areas of Gongola Basin with a view to evaluating the full hydrocarbon potential of the Basin. NNPC has deployed world-class cutting-edge technologies including Surface Geochemistry, Ground Gravity/Magnetic, Stress Field Detection, Full Tensor Gradiometry aerial surveys to de-risk exploration in the frontier basins. The NNPC plans to drill additional wells for full evaluation of the hydrocarbon volume in the Gongola Basin.” Part of the areas that will undergo oil and gas exploration include the Benue Trough, Chad Basin, Sokoto and Bida Basins. Makoji, noted that the President also promised to prioritise Dahomey and Anambra Basins which have already witnessed oil and gas discoveries. Over 1bn Barrels Oil Reserves The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, confirmed last week that from the evaluation report the reserves that have been discovered in the North-east is about a billion barrels and that they are beginning to understand to geological structure of that area. “If there is a lot of exploration, we believe that a lot of oil still remains to be found in Nigeria. And that is the beauty about Nigeria. Nigeria is not yet a mature territory but it is still very prolific. “There has been no targeted exploration for gas and yet we have 200 TCF reserves. So, we believe that if we really go out looking for gas, we can find a lot more that will put us in the league of the most prolific in the world. Let us allow the investment to come into Nigeria because there is still a lot of oil and gas to be found. Unfortunately, the bad news is that the world’s 2020 outlook tells you that by 2040, oil and gas will account for only 50 per cent of the energy of the world.” Need For More Investments, PIB The minister who raised the concern in Abuja during a press conference at the third edition of the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS), said: “Our people are now participants in this industry, but one thing is lacking. Technically our people have become very competent. They can run this industry. But this industry is a combination of two things: technical competence and access to capital. “We cannot now access capital, although we have the technical competence. One of the things that make it difficult to access capital when it comes to Nigeria are the things that we put out there about Nigeria. All the time, we add to the country’s risks; the perception about Nigeria, because we enjoy saying all the evil things about Nigeria, and never dwell on those things that are great about Nigeria.” He disclosed that Nigeria has discovered one billion barrels of crude reserves in the North-east and that a lot of oil is yet to be found in Nigeria if there were more exploration activities. The minister noted that though the country was not yet a mature territory for oil, it is still a very prolific region. Sylva however, pointed out that there was need for the country to pass the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), saying for so long Nigeria had been delaying in passing the bill. According to Sylva, Nigeria’s oil industry had been stagnating due to unclear fiscal terms resulting in lack of investment in the sector. The minister further attributed the country’s inability to grow the oil reserves to lack of investment. He added: “From 2007 to now, we have only been able to grow our reserves from 37 billion barrels to 37.5 billion barrels, in more than 10 years. Why? Not much investment is coming into Nigeria. “If you were an investor, and you are coming to invest in Nigeria and you see that the fiscal framework is shaking or uncertain nobody knows what laws will be passed – nobody will want to invest new capital in Nigeria. And that is why you see that we have almost been stagnant in the Nigerian oil industry. Attraction To Foreign Investors Tarka who spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday on the potential of the discovery said that what this means is that the discovery of oil and gas in commercial quantity in the Gongola Basin will attract foreign investment, generate employment for people to earn income and increase government revenues. Tarka, confirmed that the fields are currently undergoing commercial evaluation and predicted massive investment by oil majors who have already seen the potentials available in those frontiers. The current state of the upstream petroleum industry in Nigeria portrays an optimistic outlook and according to the Oil and Gas Journal (OGJ), Nigeria ranks among the top 10 nations in proven oil and natural gas reserves, worldwide. Experts argues that to expand Nigeria’s proven oil reserves to 40.0 billion barrels and increase its production capacity to 4 million barrels per day, the national government would be willing to invest about $9-10 billion annually over the next ve years. The upstream oil and gas industry outlook in Nigeria is robust as nearly 200 per cent of proved reserves produced in Nigeria from 1970-2005 have been replaced by new reserves, indicating that the petroleum business environment in Nigeria compares favorably with the global environment. The replacement ratio shows the extent to which Nigeria has pushed the reserves crunch date back in time and the willingness to remain a viable player in the global oil and gas industry for years to come. After halting exploration in the Chad Basin, where some experts lost their lives to Boko Haram insurgents, the NNPC again commenced operations in Nasarawa State, and ready to return to the Chad Basin, Sokoto, and Benue among other states in the north. The IOCs, including, Chevron, Total, and Shell, which had oil blocks in the upper Benue trough, also drilled one well each, bringing the number of wells drilled in the region to 26. Hydrocarbon Diversification The NNPC, and the new leadership of the Nigerian Association of Petroleum Explorationists (NAPE), are convinced that the data gathered so far from the inland basins showed possible signs of commercial hydrocarbon in the region. The NAPE President, Tarka, however, called for the diversification of the country’s hydrocarbon resource base, saying previous exploration in the inland basins was not good enough. He said: “There is justification because we all know from the Chadian and Niger side, there’s been commercial discovery. It is the same sedimentary basin that straddles across these international boundaries. So, we will be under-performing if we decide not to go and search on our side of the basin and other basins.” According to Tarka, the argument of huge spend on searching for oil in the North is weak argument and some people pointing that some oil majors have left the search is not the way it is done. “Did Shell or ExxonMobil find oil in Saudi Arabia? It is the responsibility of the government to locate where its minerals are hidden and then invite investors to explore. “Time shall also reveal how much was spent in searching for oil in the Niger Delta and what was spent exploring the North,” he said. I can assure you that with what is available in the North the country will recover the cost of the search. Soon the North will become the hub of exploration and investment by the International Oil Companies, IOC’s,” he concluded.