Akwa Ibom State police command has said that it busted a child trafficking syndicate who lure innocent girls, get them pregnant until delivery and sell out the babies at the rate of N400, 000 and N300, 000 for male and female respectively, in Oruk Anam council of the State. The suspects are Ndukeabasi Ndianabasi Okon of Nung Ukim village Uyo and her husband, Ndianaabasi Okon, who is now at large. Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Frederick Nnudam who made the disclosure, said that the Police acted on a tip-off and immediately swooped on the baby factory, thereby rescuing two pregnant teenage victims, one Peace Okon Sunday, 17, from Eka Ediene village with seven-month-old pregnancy and Esther Victor Jeremiah 15, of Ikot Inyang village. According to him, the female suspect during interrogations confessed that she and her husband now at large have been in the illicit business since 2016, adding that they normally sell male and female children at the rate of N400, 000 and N300, 000 respectively. CSP Nnudam also disclosed that a combined team of Itu Division and Anti-Child Theft equally intercepted an 18-seater bus with registration number YEN 709 XA, conveying six underage children and that during investigation, the suspects, one Esther Asuquo Akpan, 42, and Otobong Solomon Akpan, 21, confessed that they were taking the victims to Osun State for child labour. The victims included Elisha Joseph Akpan, 12; Emmanuel Peter Edim, 14; Elijah Victor Michael, 15; Saviour Etete Amos, 16; Effanga Asuquo Etim, 16 and David Sunday Akpan, 16, all male of Akpabuyo in Cross River State. He said that the Command had transferred the children to ministry of Women Affairs for custody, while the suspects were charged to court. Meanwhile, the Police have also arrested one Peace Bassey Okon who allegedly abducted one Joy Effiong Ekpeima, 16 and Peace Effiong Ekpeima, 17, in November 2019 and took them to her sister’s house in Ogun State, denying them access to contact their parents even as she subjected them to forced labour and exploitation. ‘’Investigation revealed that the suspect took advantage of the victims who dropped out of school, occasioned by their parents’ inability to pay their school fees and abducted them for forced labour”. ‘’In view of the above, operatives proceeded to Ogun State and arrested the suspect’s sister, one Sandra Bassey who took custody of the victims. Suspects have been charged to court.’’