The Nigeria – China Business Council has announced that it is shifting its investment conference due to the global-ranging Coronavirus that has so far killed more than 2,800 people, as the World Health Organisation attempts to contain the disease. Organisers of the 2020 Nigeria – China Investment Conference say they are working closely to support “the efforts of the Chinese and Nigerian Governments to control and limit the spread of this infectious disease and continues to monitor the developing situation while we maintain close communications with relevant government bodies and other key stakeholders.” About $4 to $5 billion investments deals are expected to be signed in the conference that focuses on expanding Chinese investments in already in Nigeria into the rural areas when the conference is held. The investment conference was earlier slated for February 27 – 28, 2020 but has been postponed to hold between March 31 and April 1st, 2020. Tagged: “Stimulating the Rural Economy through Investment and Project Financing with Special Focus on Private Sectors, Local State Governments,” the conference is targeting the rural areas’ economic growth through the instrumentality of MSMEs. “We want to shift them to the rural areas. We believe that is one of the ways we can make impact in the national economy,” said National Coordinator/CEO, Nigeria – China Business Council, Matthew Uwaekwe at a media briefing in Abuja Thursday. Chairman of Nigeria – China Business Council and leader of Chinese businessmen in Nigeria, Chief Jacob Wood said the event is targeted at encouraging Chinese investors that have already invested in Nigeria to explore other opportunities to expand, including diversifying their investments into other sector to the rural areas, which will in tum create more jobs and enhanced economic growth in Nigeria. “The investors should take advantage of availability of infrastructural facilities, government equities and affordable human capital in the rural areas to create more investments line with the present Administration’s ease of doing business in Nigeria, as well as the incentive benefits,” Chief Wood said. The conference objective among others is to provide platform for an interactive session; matchmaking, business-to- Business between Nigerian investors and their Chinese counterparts with a view to stimulating the rural economy through Investments and projects financing. He maintained that the conference is a panacea to development of private sector, local and State governments. Wood said if the Council can encourage the Chinese people who already have investments in various Nigerian cities to go into the rural areas, the rural economic will experience improvement. “We want them to tap into the resources available in Nigeria,” he added. 