Ogun state government on Friday said it has quarantined facilities of Lafarge Cement Company located in Ewekoro local government area of the state following the confirmed outbreak of the dreaded coronavirus through the Italian citizen who earlier visited the company. The State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, who disclosed this to journalists at a press conference in Abeokuta, the state capital, also said that three personnel of the company have equally been quarantined. Coker confirmed that the Italian citizen tested positive to the virus in Lagos on Friday morning had visited the cement company im Ewekoro where he is a consultant to the company. She explained that quarantining the Lafarge Cement facilities in Ewekoro becomes exigent because to enable the state government activate the line listing of those who had come into contact with the Italian citizen and ultimately move towards curtailing the spread of the dreaded virus. According to the Ogun Health Commissioner, the Italian nationale arrived Ogun state in the Lafarge facilities on Tuesday night, but developed body ache Wednesday morning, thereby necessitating his being admitted at the company’s healthcare facility in Ewekoro. “The said individual is of Italian origin, a consultant to the Lafarge, Ewekoro factory, arrived in Nigeria on Monday, 24 of February about 9pm, he came to the country. Before arriving in Ogun state, he had made contact with three people, spent the night in Lagos state and arrived on Tuesday morning in Ogun state. He stayed at a guest house and at about 4-5pm on Wednesday, he developed body ache and fever”. “The staff clinic of Lafarge was very sensitive to the case, they responded speedily and contacted Lagos, they had a high index of suspicion and once they contacted Lagos, the protocol kicked in and the individual was transfered to Lagos in a closed ambulance according to protocol”. Speaking on the measures put in place by the state government to prevent further spread of the virus across the state, Coker allayed the fear of any outbreak of the disease in the state, but assured that the state has designated a place at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu for any emergency. “There is no cause for concern”, stressing that epidemiologist in the state were already being supported by both federal and Lagos state governments I’m the line listing of every contact that the Italian citizen has had. “I’m reassuring us that individually we have to be responsible for our health, which means that if we have a cough or we have a cold we have to cover our mouths with tussles or handkerchiefs and dispose them responsibly. Don’t leave them on surfaces because the virus could still be in those things, use them and dispose them immediately, don’t put them back in your pockets. While advising that people should keep a distance of five metres away from any family relative suspected to have been infected, Coker also urged members of the public to visit any of the 521 Primary Healthcare Centers (PHCs) across the state should they suspect any one suffering from the disease.