The Mastercard Foundation has opened a new office in Nigeria with the overall goal of empowering 10 million Nigerian young people, especially young women, in work opportunities by the year 2030. The office located in Lagos is part of expanding its Young Africa Works strategy on the continent, enabling 30 million young people in Africa, especially young women, to access dignified and fulfilling work by 2030. To date, the Canadian Foundation has established offices in Rwanda, Kenya, Ghana, Senegal, Ethiopia, and Uganda, building a broader presence of the Foundation’s work in Africa.  Over the last 10 years, the Mastercard Foundation has worked in 30 African countries and its work has impacted more than 44 million young people. In Nigeria, Young Africa Works will focus on increasing young people’s work in Agriculture, in the Digital sector, and Creative Industries. Underpinning the growth of these sectors are financial inclusion and education programs targeting the existing challenges and providing a catalytic effect. The Mastercard Foundation, Nigeria Country head, Mrs Chidinma Lawanson explains that, “Partnering with financially sustainable and highly scalable social enterprises, like Babban Gona, which is part-owned by the farmers they serve, will give us the momentum to take Young Africa Works to scale.” Lawanson, who has over 24 years of experience in development finance and commercial banking further explains that, “the Babban Gona model uses training and education, access to financing, and a gainful source of income to ensure young people have the tools and skills they need to prosper.” Jobberman, Nigeria’s largest recruitment platform with over 2.2 million candidatewws and approximately 60,000 employers, is another partner the Foundation is working with to train and link young people to work opportunities. Additionally, LEAP Africa is a partner that has inspired and equipped young people, business owners, and social entrepreneurs to be ethical leaders while implementing initiatives that transform their communities and organisations, sustain livelihoods, and contribute to national development. Young Africa Works aims to create a pathway out of poverty for millions of young Africans and their families. In Nigeria, the Foundation is adopting an approach strategically aligned to the country’s poverty reduction strategies, which sees the government driving to diversify the economy, creating jobs, empowering young people, and bringing about technological growth.