The United Nations Children’s Fund, (Unicef) has commenced fresh sensitization against female genital mutilation, cutting (FGM) and massaging, warning that the practice is obnoxious and which violates the rights of women and girls and subject to the danger. Dr. Ibrahim Conteh, Unicef Chief Field Officer, made the call, during the commemoration of 2020 International Day of female Genital Mutilation/Cutting in South-East, held in Enugu State. Dr. Conteh disclosed that Unicef, joined the globe to mark the 2020 International Day of zero Tolerance to female Genital Mutilation with the theme, “Unleashing Youth Power”, stating that this year’s FGM is seeking active youth’s participation in the fight against the obnoxious and harmful practice, with strong focus on mobilizing youths for the elimination of the harmful practices”. Unicef while calling for a permanent stop of the practice of female genital cutting which it said is predominantly rampant in Africa regretted that such a practice violates the rights of women and girls. Dr. Conteh disclosed that Unicef is using the opportunity to urge stakeholders to intensify steps towards eliminating the obnoxious harmful practice of women and girls genital mutilation by adopting coordinated and systematic efforts, promoting policies and positive action, engaging communities with focus on human rights, gender equality, sexual education and attention to the needs of women and girls who suffer from the consequences of female genital circumcision. In his lecture, EzinwaChidi, Department of Mass Communication, Enugu State University, Enugu, advised journalists to enlighten people especially those at the rural areas of the dangers of female genital cutting so that the practice to stop, saying that 19 percent of females in Igbo society are subjected to the practice. In the same vein, Dr. Hilary Ozo, resource person, in his presentation, told government to make laws and policies that could eliminate the practice of female genital mutilation. Ozo added that the practice always has negative result which destabilizes the society that indulge in it, describing FGM as a “sensitive, taboo that is sometimes high political with perceived religious sentiment that goes to the heart of gender identity and gender relations”. Reiterating the commitment of Unicef to stopping FGM and encouraging girls education, IjeomaOnuohaOgwe, communication Officer, Unicef, Enugu State, said engaging youths for the fight against female genital cutting entails sincere commitment, noting that Unicef already has child’s-Rights Club in some schools, stressing that FGM must be eradicated. Sir Anyaso, Director General, Broadcasting Corporation of AbiaState, maintained that BCA is proud to partner Unicef to bring together journalists and medical practitioners to brainstorm on expected medial roles to tackling female genital cutting. Notably, female genital mutilation which has been an old traditional practice across Africa, Asia and Diaspora, comprises all procedures which involve altering, injuring the female genital for non-medical reasons, and is recognized internationally as the violation of human rights, the health and the integrity of women and girls.