In this report, ERNEST NZOR, writes on how residents of Uchu Yahe rural community in Cross River State, came together to financially contribute to the construction of a new bridge that straddles the village just so they can have some comfort. To build a bridge even for a government is no small undertaking. But what does a community do when it is cut off from its farms, businesses and neighbours by a river because of the collapse of an old wooden bridge available and the government turns a blind eye? It takes action. That was what a community in Cross River State decided to do. The residents decided to build Uchu Yache Orierie River Bridge. The bridge, which provides all season access to the village and to services and markets in the urban settlements around it, was built by individuals’ contributions under the coordination of Uchu National Development Association (UNDA). The project was aimed at improving the rural community by making basic services and facilities accessible to the people. It was gathered that in Uchu-Yache, in Yala local government area of Cross River State, the language spoken by the people is Ekpari. The natives are predominantly farmers. The community has abundant salt deposits and it is mined locally. However, the infrastructure, especially roads, water and electricity, which are the basic needs of every community for economic development, is not in existence in the community. Uchu Yache is about 10 kilometers by road to Benue State but has no road linking both states. The general secretary of Uchu National Association (UDA) Abuja branch, Mr. Odey Thomas Orabi, who shared his experience in the community said: “Our people could not cross the wooden bridge, it was still impossible to go to the other side of the river during the rainy season when villagers are faced with many problems and risks. When we need something from the other side of the village and it was absolutely necessary to cross the river. It used to be a challenge. “Uchu villagers will no longer face those risks, which included motorcycle falling into the river. Before the bridge was built, motorcycles trying to cross the river on the wooden bridge most of the time, fall into the river,” he said. He called on the federal government to construct road networks in the area and provide electricity for the residents of the community so they too can experience the impact of government. The occasion for the commissioning of the bridge was characterised by cultural displays of famous traditional dances like Igana, Otsichui, Ayeta and Akataka. The occasion was graced by captains of industry and eminent personalities from Yache. The commissioning of Uchu Yache Orierie River Bridge, was done by the House of Representatives member, representing Ogoja/Yala federal constituency, Jarigbe Agom, who was represented by the chairman, Cross River State Universal Basic Education Board (CR-SUBEB), Dr Stephen Odey. Odey, who is an indigene of Uchu, appreciated the people for their love and unity. He said that the bridge was constructed by individual efforts because it was neglected and abandoned by the past administrations in the state, but added that the present administration of Prof Ben Ayade has taken community development as a priority. He expressed happiness over the successful completion of the project and called on people to always strive to do something unique to raise the status of their communities. The event was also used to celebrate indigenes of Yache that are making the community proud within and outside the community, including the chairman, Cross River State Universal Basic Education Board (CR-SUBEB), Dr. Stephen Odey, who bagged award of Excellence Selfless Support, for his contributions to community development. While receiving the award, Dr Odey said the award and recognition is an encouragement to do more in the area of community development. He said that he was happy to receive the award from a great community like Yache, adding that it is good to give back to the community. He dedicated the award to the governor of Cross River State, Ben Ayade, for his determination and commitment toward community development. He said that he would use his time as the executive chairman, Cross River State Universal Basic Education Board (CR-SUBEB), to provide quality development to the people of the community and the state in general. The executive chairman of SUBEB added that he remains grateful for the love shown to him by Yache community. In a related development, recently, the director general of National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr. Garba Abari, urged Nigerians to take ownership of constituency projects. Abari, made the call at the national conversation on citizens ownership of constituency project, with the theme: ‘My constituency, my project,’ organised by NOA in Abuja. While emphasising on the need for the citizens to support the current democratic government, the NOA boss said: “In the 20th year of uninterrupted democracy in our country, our concern should be how this vehicle of development can be made to deliver the desired gains to the people.” He said that communities taking ownership of constituency projects would ensure that legislators and other officials of government are alerted when there is poor execution of these contracts, so that they can also be held accountable. “Public funds spent on constituency project is meant for community development not individual use, I call on everyone to hold their leaders accountable for constituency projects,” he added. Abari further noted that the process is to get citizens to buy-in or take ownership of these projects since, essentially, it is meant to serve their communities. NOA, in its report said that if the principle of transparency, accountability, probity and effective budget performance, rule of law, effective management of public funds must be enthroned in our Public Procurement System, the executive arm of government must also be prepared at all times to continue to provide good leadership. “In governance, it is not what one says that is important, but what one does. In view of the laudable and lofty goals of the procurement policy, both the present and successive governments should do everything possible not only to sustain it but also to re-invigorate it. “The policy has come to stay in Nigeria. What remains is for everybody to join hands in supporting and developing strategies that will help to sustain it, especially in the area of combating procurement corruption and fraud, which has been identified as its greatest challenge. “This is the only way to promote good governance in the country. Without good governance, sustainable national growth and development becomes an illusion,” he said.