Kebbi State Government is partnering with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to facilitate the industrialisation of the state. The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu played host to a delegation of UNIDO led by the UNIDO representative to ECOWAS and Regional Director , Nigeria Regional Office, Mr. Jean Bakole who visited him at Government House, Birnin Kebbi on Thursday 20/2/2020. Senator Atiku Bagudu remarked that Kebbi State desired industrial growth and development of the partnership with UNIDO as timely and helpful. He announced that the state government would provide counterpart fund of 1 million dollars to hastening the actualisation of the agreement.
The governor told the delegation that his administration has embarked on intensive investment drive which has led to the establishment of industries in the state such as rice processing Mills and other agro allied products. Senator Atiku Bagudu revealed that Kebbi State has been blessed with solid minerals such as iron ore deposits expressing confidence on the ability of the state to begin steel development in the future.
The governor affirmed resolve to utilize the partnership with UNIDO to enhance the economic fortunes of women and youths as panacea to industrial progress. He informed his hosts that recently, Kebbi State has entered into joint partnership agreement of 10 million dollars with United States African Development Foundation (USADF)
which would improve rice value chain, groundnut and dairy production in the state through farmers cooperative scheme. The governor further stated that Kebbi signed an agreement with Egypttian Fish experts on developing fish potential in the state in addition to the dairy production with Oyo State and rice production with Lagos State. Bagudu also reiterated that his government has open up the state for investment opportunities even with its unique advantage of having borders with Benin and Niger republics. He assured the UNIDO delegation that in 2020, at least two more companies would be commission in the state . Earlier, the UNIDO representative to ECOWAS and Regional Director, Nigeria Regional Office, Mr.Jean Bakole, a national of the Democratic Republic of Congo, told his host that the delegation was in Kebbi State to consolidate on the partnership arising from the round table meeting in Abuja during where Governor Bagudu indicated interest to partner with UNIDO in order to facilitate the industrial development of the state He said UNIDO would assist Kebbi State in formulating industrial policy in order to fastrack industrial development in the state. Mr.Jean Bakole announced that Sixty Million dollars would be expended under the program designed to last for five years. He said that the Federal Government was expected to contribute 30 million dollars while the balance of 30 million would be sourced from other partners such as the states. He also emphasized that industrialisation remained the basic foundation for economic development and poverty eradication of any country. According to the Mr.Jean Bakole, the Federal Government of Nigeria had signed with UNIDO an industrial development program to support the country in its derive to economic development and poverty reduction. He applauded the vision and aspiration of governor Bagudu towards diversification of the state economy through agriculture, describing it as the right step to industrialisation. The UNIDO Regional Director opined alos that UNIDO has committed itself in Kebbi ” Our commitment from UNIDO after fruitful meeting with the governor to formulate industrial and environmental policy for the state, support SMEs to by providing training tools for establishent of bushiness for women and youths who are the major beneficiaries “. Other areas he mentioned was support on energy for successful establishent of industries in the state which the according to him, Kebbi was blessed with many sources of energy such as hydro, solar, bio and wind that could support the setting up of industries. He commeded Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu for his zeal and determination to making Kebbi State an industrial hub once again assured the governor that UNIDO would assist Kebbi in changing economic the narrative of the state. Highlights of the event at Kebbi Government House after the interactive session between the UNIDO representatives and the state Government was also presentation of a copy of UNIDO Country Program for Nigeria on Economic Development and Poverty Eradication to Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu by Mr.Jean Bakole, UNIDO ECOWAS Representative and Regional Director. Representatives of the Kebbi State Government include, the Commissioners for Budget and Economic Planning, Commerce, Agriculture and Water Resources as well as Lands and Housing, represented by the Permanent Secretary and Surveyor General of the State.