For the umpteenth time, the federal government has asked Nigerians not to lose sleep over its preparedness to handle the coronavirus (covid-19) disease in the event of its importation in the country. The reassurance came yesterday in Abuja as the government scaled up preparations for responding to any identification of the virus carriers, which broke out in China last December and has claimed many lives. At present, the government said that it had strengthened surveillance at the country’s international airports to prevent the spread of covid-19 to the country. It maintained that there was no recorded case of covid-19 in the country and urged Nigerians not to panic as all hands are on deck to tackle the epidemic. The federal government delegation on Coronavirus Inter-Ministerial/Multi-Sectoral Preparedness and Response Committee yesterday visisted the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport Abuja to observe the process of screening of incoming passengers in view of the spread of virus. It noted that Nigeria has the equipment in major outlets to promptly manage the epidemic. The delegation included the minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, the minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, and the minister of state for Health, Senator Olorunnimbe Mamora. Officially, the death toll from the novel coronavirus has reached 1,873, as almost half of China’s 1.3 billion-strong population remains subject to varying forms of travel restriction and quarantine measures. In his address after the visit, Lai said that the whole exercise was to let the public know the response of Nigeria in tackling the epidemic, since its outbreak in 2019. “To the best of my knowledge, Nigeria has not recorded any case of the virus in the country. We are ready, we are prepared; we have the equipment in major outlets in Nigeria. We are here to assure Nigeria of our readiness and to tell them that they don’t need to panic. “We have handled serious epidemic before. The world has confidence in our ability to contain the virus. And we are improving our effort to combat this virus,’’ Mohammed said. The minister said that the federal government put up an inter-ministerial task force to ensure that coming and going out of Nigeria were properly checked and to ensure that any instance or suspicion of being infected by the virus was managed promptly. According to him, “you have seen first-hand today efforts put in place by the federal government to check the epidemic and you also see the screening procedures the passengers pass through which include screening with thermals, and the officials on the ground who try to spot passengers who look suspicion. “But one of the key components of checking epidemic of this nature is public enlightenment. And we have collaborated with the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Humanitarian Management to ensure that information is given to Nigerians about the virus. “The information such as what you need to do to prevent the virus and the effort needed in containing it. We have deployed all our platforms – NTA, VON, NAN, and FRCN – to ensure that adequate enlightenment is done. The platforms are also available for interviews of stakeholders. NAN is also using its platform to send SMS to Nigerians. We also ensure that NOA translated our messages to all Nigerians languages to ensure that information gets to all Nigerians,” the minister said. On her part, Farouq expressed satisfaction with the preparations put in place by various agencies and ministries to protect Nigerians against the coronavirus which is now a global pandemic. She said that Nigeria was responding to the pandemic challenges by mobilising the relevant agencies to ensure that “our people are protected and the prevention of the spread of the virus through early detection and if necessary managing cases detected in the country.” Sirika (Aviation minister) said that FAAN had been collaborating with Port Health Services which is the lead agency for public health in the airport since the coronavirus outbreak began in China to ensure that the virus is not imported to the country through the airports. He said that the FAAN conduct screening of arriving passengers on all flights by the port health services using temperature scanners, collection of travel history information and physical observation of the passengers on all flights. “Early recognition of cases, isolation of suspected passenger, safe transport to designated hospitals and contact tracing around these individuals and many other preventive approaches are currently being implemented at the airports,” he said.