As the crisis in Edo State chapter of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) continues to fuel  speculation of Governor Godwin Obaseki’s defection to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), his recent endorsements by PDP chieftains is causing unease within the main opposition party. PATRICK OGHOGA writes As uncertainty beclouds the political terrain in Edo State, gladiators in the two main political parties, the All Progressive Congress (APC) and the opposition, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are not resting on their oars in the bid to win the September 19 governorship election, later this year. As such, while political actors in both parties have been locked in intense scheming over candidacy, parties have, consequently become the battle   field in the search for popular and credible candidates. In the ruling APC, some of the party’s leaders loyal to the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole are determined to ensure that the incumbent governor, Godwin Obaseki, is stopped from flying the APC, ticket. To achieve this plan, six governorship aspirants were said to have reached a pact to unseat Obaseki by throwing their weight behind whoever emerges as the APC standard flag-bearer. Among the frontline aspirants seeking to unseat Obaseki are Dr Chris Ogiemwonyi, Dr Pius Odubu, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Gen Charles Airhiavhere, Saturday Iyalikhue and Solomon Edebiri. In the PDP however, Barrister Ken Imansuagbon, Hon Ogbeide Ihama, Hon Gideon Ikhine and Hon Ifaluyi Isibor are also in the race for the party’s ticket. The PDP leaders in the state had in 2019 held a strategic meeting indicating their preparedness to regain the Osadebay Government House in the forthcoming 2020 gubernatorial poll in the state. The roll call of stakeholders who attended the meeting held at the residence of former governor, Lucky Igbinedion, was perceived as an indication that the PDP plans to leverage on the lingering faceoff between Obaseki and Oshiomhole. Besides Igbinedion, other PDP heavyweights at the meeting included Igbinedion’s former deputy governor and former chief of staff to former president, Goodluck Jonathan, Chief Mike Ogiadomhe, former minister of works, Arch. Mike Onolememen, senators representing Edo South and Edo Central, Matthew Urhoghide and Clifford Ordia; member representing Oredo Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama. Others are media mogul, Chief Raymond Dokpesi; Pascal Ugbome, Oladele Bankole-Balogun, the rice man, Kenneth Immasuagbon; 2016 governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Senator Victor Oyofo, Samuel Saiki among other bigwigs.  Ize-Iyamu however defected from the PDP to APC shortly afterwards. But as the crisis in the ruling APC festers, Obaseki and his political handlers are not taking any chances in ensuring that the governor does not only emerge the candidate but also win the forthcoming election and return for a second term as provided by the constitution. However, some observers are of the view that the lingering APC crisis may pose a hurdle to Obaseki’s picking the ticket. In that light, some pundits have averred that he might consider seeking an alternate political platform. It was gathered that powerful forces against Obaseki’s second term had perfected plan to deny him the APC ticket. While some of the governor’s staunch supporters are of the view that attempt to deny Obaseki second term ticket may mean the end of the APC in the state. A party source who confided in LEADERSHIP said the Obaseki’s camp is aware of the high powered plots by his political rivals to deny him the ticket, stressing however that, “if it continues they will move to another platform and APC will become history in Edo” However, the governor has repeatedly denied plans to defect from the APC as claimed by Oshiomhole and his supporters. In one of his interventions on the matter, Obaseki  said, “If a handful of individuals start misbehaving and feel we will leave the party for them; they will be the ones to leave.” The overtures and Obaseki’s Plan B Leaders of the main opposition PDP have been wooing Obaseki to dump the APC and join them, credible sources have confided in LEADERSHIP, in spite of denials by the governor and his handlers on moves to leave the ruling party. However, the stream of endorsements for Obaseki’s second term bid by PDP stalwarts has not only caused raised eyebrows within the state but has sparked unrest within the opposition party. An endorsement for Obaseki’s second term came from a member of PDP’s Board of Trustee, (BoT), Senator Daisy Danjuma, at an event hosted by Edo indigenes in Lagos State. The former lawmaker who is married to former minister of Defence, Gen TY Danjuma, said that her support for the governor remains despite the fact that she is a PDP chieftain. She said, “I am a Board of Trustee (BoT) member of the PDP, but I support the governor and his policies. I support him for a second term. I am for development. Let us forget politics; let’s develop.” Expectedly, her endorsement of the governor ruffled the feathers of party leaders in the state which elicited criticism. They described her statement as “private and not a reflection of Edo PDP.” The former senator however insisted that her endorsement of the governor was done in her personal capacity and that she owes no one an apology. She stated, “My comment on endorsing Obaseki is personal. I have the right to support whoever I choose to. I am a member of PDP and I have never left PDP or decamp to any party like others. It is my right to free comment and that I have exercise.” Barely 48 hours after the statement from Daisy Danjuma, the PDP state publicity secretary, Chris Nehikhare in a statement immediately disassociated the party from her comment. He said, “Edo PDP hereby disassociates itself from all that transpired between Senator Daisy Ehanire-Danjuma and the Governor. It is abnormal and not politically savvy for party leaders to endorse aspirants of another party other than the candidate of their party” “Being a member of the BOT confers some rights and privileges. It’s an abuse of such rights and privileges to openly and publicly endorse a candidate of another party. This action calls for your resignation from such exalted position. “The statement of endorsement is a morale-damper to the hard working, committed and loyal men, women and youths of Edo PDP. “At the appropriate time in accordance with our party’s constitution, a credible PDP candidate will be nominated to contest the Edo State 2020 governorship election to liberate the state from political arrogance, political rascality, poverty, insecurity, unemployment and unimaginable colossal debts,” the party said. But it had more. In its bid to de-market the governor, the PDP said the government has been on a merry-go-round in the last three and half years. The statement continued, “The ‘commissioned’ 5 star specialist hospital is still home to reptiles, Tayo Akpata University of Education, an unfulfilled political greek gift, College of Agriculture Ogierieki, a victim of policy lip-service, the gele gele sea port project is still a mirage and the industrial park is still at the MOU level. The internal quibbling in APC has traumatized Edo people and the Governor you are endorsing have left 14 constituencies unrepresented in the state house of assembly. To mention a few. “To all Edo people, members and supporters of PDP you will have a choice to make between the umbrella of comfort and the broom of hardship. A PDP government will liberate our state from the APC government that is insensitive to the plight of our people. The echoes of freedom is in the streets and PDP remains the preferred choice of our people,” the party added. However, the harsh response of the state PDP to endorsement of Obaseki by some PDP leaders, didn’t stop more certification of Obaseki’s second term bid by PDP chieftains, which further fueled allegations from Oshiomhole’s loyalists that governor may have entered into a secret pact with PDP. A serving federal PDP lawmaker, Hon Joe Edionwere, representing Esan, West, Esan Central and Igueben federal constituency, pledged to support Obaseki’s return bid. Edionwere who is the latest high-profile PDP member to endorse Mr Obaseki, said most people in Edo are in support of the governor. “I want to tell you to continue your good works. It does not matter how long you spend in power. It is the legacy you leave behind that matters. Let it be known to you that those who are with you are more than those against you. “It is about development and since that is what you stand for, there is no party when it comes to development. You have constructed roads, rebuilt schools and health centres. I want to thank you on behalf of the church. May God perfect all that concerns you. “We need you to construct some roads in Iruekpen, not because we will vote for you, but because you are a good man,” he said. However, the most intriguing endorsement for Obaseki by a PDP chieftain came from Governor David Umahi who drummed support for his Edo State counterpart when the latter’s wife, Betsy Obaseki visited Ebonyi State alongside, wives of other governors. Umahi said, “Power belongs to God and no matter what anybody will do, it is God that has the final say and I can assure you Ma, you know as an apostle of the most high God, I also prophesy. And because of the good work your husband is doing for the people of Edo State, no man can unseat him. “Even in our NEC (National Economic Council) meeting, when Obaseki speaks, you see Economics. You see a man that came from private sector background. And so, we can’t wish that away. So, congratulations to you in advance and to all of us,” Mr Umahi said to Governor Obaseki’s wife, Betsy who was on a courtesy visit to Mr Umahi in Abakaliki, alongside the wives of other southern governors. The PDP in Edo State was livid, describing endorsement from PDP chieftains as a threat to their party in the forthcoming governorship election in the state. The state chairman of PDP, Dan Orbih, in a letter  to the party’s national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus demanded that party chieftains be called to order over such endorsements. He said, “This practice, you will agree with us, is condemnable and smacks of indiscipline and ingratitude. It defeats the spirit of camaraderie that is supposed to exist within a political party.” He added that the 2020 election represented the party’s brightest chance of winning the state back because of the crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress in the state. Orbih said it was therefore painful for the party members in the state to hear leaders, members of the board of trustees and even some governors, engaging in uncharitable endorsement of Obaseki. Secondus, on his part, promised to address the allegation against the Governor Umahi and Senator Danjuma. While the party faithful in Edo await the formal position of the national leadership of PDP on the matter, there is no telling what impact such endorsements will have on the party ahead of the elections.