The deregistration of 74 political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has snowballed into leadership crisis within the ranks of the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC). MBACHU GODWIN dissects the issues. The Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) is the umbrella body of Nigerian registered and recognised political parties which superintend the affairs of political parties. The Advisory Council has over the years enjoyed relative peace and calm as it conducted it’s operations and assignments without rancour or bitterness until the recent delisting of 74 political parties by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). INEC had in a media briefing by its national chairman, Prof Mahmood  Yakubu sacked the 74 political parties, citing non-compliance to the 2010 Electoral Act (as amended) as well as breach of the 1999 constitution. Addressing journalists at the Commission’s headquarters Abuja, Yakubu said, “Prior to the Fourth Alteration, the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) had provided for the deregistration of political parties, based on this provision, the Commission, between 2011 and 2013, deregistered 39 political parties. However, several of the parties challenged the power of INEC to deregister them, particularly on the ground that the Electoral Act is inferior to the Constitution and that deregistration infringed their fundamental rights under the same Constitution. “Subsequently, the courts ordered the Commission to reinstate the parties. It was for this reason that the National Assembly amended the Constitution to empower the Commission to deregister political parties on the following grounds: “Breach of any of the requirements for registration as a political party. “Failure to win at least 25 per cent of the votes cast in one state of the federation in a presidential election or 25 per cent of the votes cast in one local government area of a state in a governorship election. “Failure to win at least one ward in a chairmanship election, one seat in the national or state assembly election or one seat in a councillorship election. “In order to implement the provision of the Fourth Alteration to the Constitution, the Commission carried out an assessment of political parties to determine compliance with the requirements for their registration. “Similarly, following the conclusion of the 2019 general election, including court-ordered re-run elections arising from litigations, the commission was able to determine the performance of political parties in the elections. “In addition, they were also assessed on the basis of their performance in the area council elections in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) which coincided with the 2019 general election. It should be noted that the FCT is the only part of the country where INEC is empowered by the Constitution to conduct local government elections,” the INEC boss explained. Consequently, the commission declared that 16 political parties ordinarily fulfilled the requirements for existence based on Section 225A of the 1999 Constitution (as amended). Parties that met the standard are Accord Party, Action Alliance, African Action Congress, African Democratic Congress, African Democratic Party, All Progressives Congress, All Progressives Grand Alliance, Allied Peoples Movement, Labour Party, New Nigeria Peoples Party. Others are National Rescue Movement, Peoples Democratic Party, Peoples Redemption Party, Social Democratic Party,Young Progressive Party and Zenith Labour Party. The commission however, explained that the Action Peoples Party (APP), which filed a suit in court and obtained an order restraining the commission from deregistering it remains registered pending the determination of the case by the court. It also stated that a new political party, Boot Party (BP) registered by court order after the 2019 general election will also continue to exist. “Accordingly, 74 political parties are hereby deregistered. With this development, Nigeria now has eighteen (18) registered political parties,” INEC chairman declared. IPAC leadership was furious over the deregistration of parties which it claimed was illegal. But, besides its agitation that the party deregistration debate was pending in court, most of its executive members were affected by the exercise. The party of the IPAC chairman, High Chief Peter Ameh, Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA) was deregistered. Consequent to the delisting of the parties, a seven man interim committee headed by national chairman of African Action Congress (AAC), Mr. Leonard Ezenwa was constituted, by the parties that survived the INEC axe, to pilot the affairs of the advisory council pending the determination of the matter in court. In its first media outing barely days after the party-pruning exercise, the Ezenwa Committee while explaining that its mission was to fill the void created by the deregistration of parties that made up the IPAC executives, tacitly backed the sanitisation of the political space by INEC. This scenario sparked a reaction from the Ameh-led camp which insisted that it won’t recognise the Ezenwa Committee. In a communique signed at the end of an emergency meeting by the political parties under the umbrella of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), the council said the action of INEC was constitutional. “It is therefore based on the lawfulness of the action of the commission, the desirability of the need to sanitize the electoral space that we the 18 political parties in Nigeria hereby endorse this bold step by INEC and commend it for this worthy cause,” the council said in the communique signed by its representatives and sent to journalists. But the Ameh-led sacked parties urged the public to disregard the Ezenwa’s led committee, insisting that that its leadership is substituting despite the deregistration of political parties which affected some executives of IPAC including the national chairman. A statement by the council’s national publicity secretary, Ademola Bamidele, said the interim executives of the Council was a total gross misconduct and infraction on the IPAC Code of Conduct. He argued that the 74 de-registered parties were expecting a ruling on their case on February 17, 2020, they argued that it was rather, “unfortunate that some political party leaders will hurriedly join INEC in this tussle to rob Nigerians of our fundamental rights to freedom of association as it is enshrined in the Section 40 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). “IPAC is not a local club association, it is a body of all political parties in NIGERIA. We chose our leaders through elections and we just did not too long ago at the national and states level across the country with INEC officials in attendance. “The Council has its guiding principles as it is very clear in the Article 5 of the IPAC Code of Conduct, the conditions in which executives can be removed from office, none of the actions of these 7 desperate men purported interim committee can be found in the IPAC Code of Conduct. “The Council, therefore condemns the press release, press conference and publications of such group in its totality, the Council urges the members of the public and stakeholders in Nigeria to disregard them and dissociate themselves from this group of people as it does not represent the position of the political parties and the interest of the Council. “Whatever pronouncement made by the group has no effect on the Council, at the national and states level, the Council under the leadership of High Chief Peter Ameh,  is using this medium to inform all state executives to remain firm and maintain statuo quo until the case in court is over. “The Council remains under the leadership of High Chief Peter Ameh, the Council is worried about the information flying around about the alleged decision of INEC across the states to factionalise IPAC in order to pervert justice. “The Council will not join issues with INEC as the Council knows that the evidence are before the court of competent jurisdiction.  We are sure of justice and we encourage all states executives to keep the fight to defend of our democracy on, it worth sacrificing for, the Council will not allow any form of attack on the will given to Nigerians to associate as it is enshrined in the Section 221 and Section 222 of 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). “It is very unfortunate to note that barely 5 days that INEC made pronouncement of the illegal de-registration of 74 political parties, some 7 men committee went on air to unlawfully and illegally tow the same lane that INEC took that is about to destroy our democracy, this calls for serious concern and why Nigerians should check the integrity of the so called political parties and the leadership that organised the INEC politically motivated press conference.” However, in an interview with Ezenwa, he told LEADERSHIP that his committee was put in place to avoid a lacuna or vacuum in the leadership of IPAC as the embattled chairman’s party, PPA and those of other executive members have been deregistered. Ezenwa further explained that the decision was a collective decision taken in the interest of the council as well as to save the council from leadership crisis. He said, “There is need for the council to forge ahead with an interim leadership committee. The 18 political parties came together and said let there be an interim committee led by me to avoid vacuum because you know nature abhors vacuum, until the 74 Parties challenge their deregistration in court. “If they win in court they can come back and take their positions. It’s an interim measure, so there is no factionalisation in IPAC. What we agreed is for someone to hold forth and put the house in order,” he said. As the two camps continue to lay claim and counter claim over who calls the shorts at IPAC, the court will start the process of determining whether or not the deregistration of the parties is legitimate today. Whichever way the verdict of the court goes, many believe that the current situation is putting the advisory body on the spotlight with regards to how it helps to ensure that political space is not abused by its members as has been the case over the years. “The deregistration of parties somewhat speaks to whether IPAC has been up and doing in ensuring that they check their members against using their platforms to abuse the political space, said Ibekwe Erondu, a political analyst. He added, “We saw how political parties reduced themselves to mere appendage of the two main parted in the last general election. What did IPAC do then to ensure that such practice does not translate to encouraging mercantile tendencies by its members and intending parties? These are some of the issues that IPAC needs to be address of it wants to be taken seriously going forward,” he said.