The Northern apex socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), has called on the Nigerian Senate to ensure that any government agency that gets the loan been sought for by the federal government are well monitored. According to the ACF, Nigerians are sceptical about the proposed loan being sought for by the government agencies because of what happened during the previous government. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Weekend yesterday, the secretary-general of ACF, Mr Anthony Sani, said the National Assembly should live up to its oversight functions in order to avoid past mistakes when loans were misapplied and some misappropriated. “I have read strident opposition to the idea of taking any additional loans by the FG, on the grounds that our existing loans portfolios are already overburdening the nation with debt service, which detracts from any meaningful socio-economic development of the nation. “Some people are specifically not happy that $500m (N182b) would be for NTA ,”A Pipe To Service presidency”, they alleged. While I cannot say I know anything about the proposed NTA project, I wish to say the opposition to taking further loans is out of fear that the loans will be misapplied or misappropriated, reminiscent of past practices that have left Nigerians with excruciating burden of having to pay debt with nothing to show for it,” Sani said. Speaking further, the ACF chieftain said the economy, though out of recession, cannot move at any appreciable and steady pace without the loans because of the dearth of other sources. “I think people should be more concerned about: which projects are expected to be funded by the loans and how best the projects would truly be executed by the loans, instead of outright rejection of the loans. This is because a business needs money to make money. To this end, the National Assembly should insist on specifics of the projects and which relevant MDAs are to execute them to state specifications. That is to say, the NASS should live up to its oversight functions in order to avoid past mistakes when loans were misapplied and some misappropriated. I say this because outright rejection of loans by a struggling economy is never the best option, and, thus, not helpful,” Sani added. 