After 47 years of United Kingdom (UK) membership of the European Union (EU), it has finally dumped the pan-European body. In 1973, the UK joined an organisation that aimed to bring European nations closer together. The British people voted two years later to remain in what became the European Union (EU), but in a 2016 referendum voted to leave. On Friday, 31st January, at 23:00 GMT, the UK made history as the first EU member state to legally leave the bloc. Europeans from several of the remaining 27-member states have shared their thoughts about Brexit and the EU. More than three and a half years since the EU referendum, during which the country has seen two general elections and much political wrangling, the wishes of 17.4 million Britons will be realised. But do not expect an end to the drama. January 31 marks a single page-turn in the Brexit odyssey and the next chapter could be just as fraught. A transition period will run for at least 11 months, Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s ideal timeframe, while negotiators thrash out the future relationship between the UK and the EU. Unpicking 40 years of integration promises to be a testing process and there is scepticism on both sides of the English Channel. Little will change immediately. The UK will enter the transition period and it will be out of EU political institutions but still – for at least the next 11 months – ruled by EU laws. When the divorce is finalised, free movement for British immigrants in EU countries will end, according to the Withdrawal Agreement, but they will be afforded rights. Britons and EU nationals will continue to benefit from free movement and live in their countries under the rules and regulations they are used to. EU nationals living in the UK are being urged to apply now for the UK’s EU Settlement Scheme, but they can wait until the deadline – June 30, 2021, if a deal is reached, or December 31, 2020, if the conclusion is a no-deal Brexit. A trade deal is likely but not certain. A comprehensive trade deal with the EU, the UK’s largest trading partner, is the British government’s ultimate goal. But negotiating one will not be easy, especially in the UK-mandated 11-month timeframe. Before talks can begin, both sides need to publish their negotiating objectives. The EU’s chief Brexit figure, Michel Barnier, must also obtain a formal negotiating mandate from the bloc’s leadership. This is unlikely to happen before the end of February. At that point, talks can start in earnest. Reports have said that discussions will begin early March. Johnson is pushing for a “Canada-style” agreement, one modelled on the EU’s arrangement with Ottawa. CETA, as the deal is known, removes 98 per cent of tariffs on traded goods, though sizeable restrictions remain. Despite being less ambitious than the proposed UK-EU pact, it still took seven years to be finalised. Johnson has also ruled out alignment with European regulations. Barrier-free trade is an aim Brussels shares with London, but only if a level playing field can be agreed – code for convergence on the likes of labour, taxes, the environment, and state aid. Having already removed former Prime Minister Theresa May’s promise to safeguard workers’ rights in line with EU standards, Johnson faces a fight. Brussels will demand the invocation of EU law when solving commercial disputes, but the UK has been unwavering: No European Court of Justice (ECJ) involvement post-Brexit. It is a contentious area that will “require a unique solution, and therefore time,” Winters said.