The Independent National Electoral Commission yesterday, announced the dates for Edo and Ondo governorship elections. Accordingly, the commission has fixed Saturday, September 19, 2020, as the date for the governorship election in Edo State and Saturday, October 10, 2020, for Ondo State. The INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu said: ‘‘The detailed timetable and schedule of activities for the two elections will be published on our website and social media platforms shortly.” INEC said that the tenure of the governors would end on November 12, 2020 and February 24, 2021 respectively. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 178(2) of the 1999 Constitution and Section 25(8) of the Electoral Act 2010, elections cannot hold earlier than 150 days and not later than 30 days before the expiration of the term of office of an incumbent governor. He said the commission will conduct bye-elections in three constituencies as a result of the deaths of some serving members of the national and state assemblies. Yakubu said: “The Speaker of the House of Representatives has declared vacancy in Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency of Niger State. Similarly, the Speaker of the Kwara State House of Assembly has declared a vacancy in Patigi State Constituency while the Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly has declared the Kebbe State Constituency vacant. These bye-elections will hold simultaneously in the three states on Saturday, March 14, 2020. Again, the detailed timetable and schedule of activities will be published on our website and social media platforms shortly,” he said.  INEC Deregisters 74 Political Parties At last, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has wielded the big stick against 74 political parties by deregistering them for poor performance in elections. The commission gave 16 others the green light to remain and to continue to operate as duly-registered and constitutionally-qualified political parties in the country. INEC gave the names of the 16 parties that met the requirements for existence based on Section 225(a) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) as Accord Party (AP), Action Alliance (AA), African Action Congress (AAC), African Democratic Congress (ADC), African Democratic Party (ADP), All Progressives Congress (APC), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), and Allied Peoples Movement (APM). The others are Labour Party (LP), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), National Rescue Movement (NRM), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Young Progressive Party (YPP), and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). The deregistered political parties, according to INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, are Advanced Allied Party (AAP), All Blending Party (ABP), Advanced Congress of Democrats (ACD), Allied Congress Party of Nigeria  (ACPN), Alliance for Democracy (AD), All Grassroots Alliance (AGA), All Grand Alliance Party (AGAP), Advanced Nigeria Democratic Party (ANDP), Alliance For New Nigeria (ANN), Alliance National Party (ANP), Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), African Peoples Alliance (APA), Advanced Peoples Democratic Alliance (APDA), Alternative Party of Nigeria (APN), Alliance of Social Democrats (ASD), Alliance for A United Nigeria (AUN), Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP), Change Advocacy Party (CAP), Coalition for Change (C4C), Change Nigeria Party  (CNP), Congress of Patriots (COP), Democratic Alternative (DA), Democratic Peoples Congress (DPC), Democratic Peoples (DPP), Fresh Democratic Party (FDP), Freedom and Justice Party (FJP), Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN), Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), Hope Democratic Party (HDP), Independent Democrats (ID), Justice Must Prevail Party (JMPP), Kowa Party (KP), Liberation Movement (LM), Legacy Party of Nigeria (LPN), Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA), Modern Democratic Party (MDP), Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN), Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN), Movement for the Restoration and Defence of Democracy (MRDD), National Action Council (NAC), Nigeria Community Movement Party (NCMP), and National Conscience Party (NCP). The others are Nigeria Democratic Congress Party (NDCP), National Democratic Liberty Party (NDLP), Nigeria Elements Progressive Party (NEPP), Nigeria for Democracy (NFD), New Generation Party of Nigeria (NGP), National Interest Party (NIP), Nigeria Peoples Congress (NPC), New Progressive Movement (NPM), National Unity Party (NUP), Peoples Coalition Party (PCP), Peoples for Democratic Change (PDC), Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), Providence Peoples Congress (PPC), Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), Peoples Progressive Party (PPP), Peoples Trust (PT), Reform and Advancement Party (RAP), Re-build Nigeria Party (RBNP), Restoration Party of Nigeria (RP), Save Nigeria Congress  (SNC), Sustainable National Party (SNP), Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN), United Democratic Party (UDP), United Patriots (UP), United Peoples Congress (UPC), Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), United Progressive Party (UPP), We The People of Nigeria (WTPN), Young Democratic Party (YDP), Yes Electorates Solidarity (YES), and Youth Party (YP). Prof. Yakubu told journalists at a press conference at the commission’s headquarters in Abuja, yesterday, that the parties were delisted because they failed INEC’s verification exercise. Ninety-one political parties were registered for the 2019 general elections. But the Boot Party approached the court to challenge its disqualification by INEC and got a favourable judgement which brought the number to 92 before the sledgehammer came from INEC yesterday. LEADERSHIP had exclusively reported on Wednesday of the plans by INEC to deregister political parties which performed poorly in the last general elections following the submission of the report of a committee set up by the commission to look into the parties which violated the laws on their existence. The stage for the delisting of the parties was set by the National Assembly took in 2017 when it empowered to deregister non-performing parties during the constitutional review exercise. Consequently, the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (Fourth Alteration, No 9) Act, 2017 enacted on May 4, 2017, amended Section 225 of the 1999 Constitution to empower INEC to de-register political parties on grounds of: “breach of any of the requirements for registration; failure to win at least 25 per cent of votes cast in one state of the federation in a presidential election or one local government of the state in a governorship election; failure to win at least – one ward in the chairmanship election; one seat in the national or state House of Assembly election; or one seat in the councillorship election.” LEADERSHIP Friday gathered that the committee set up by INEC discovered that the 74 political parties violated the laws which specified the conditions for their continued existence. In his address at the briefing, Yakubu said: “You will recall that prior to the 2019 general election, Nigeria had 91 political parties. One more party was registered by court order after the election, making a total of 92 political parties. The 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) vests in INEC the power to register and regulate the activities of political parties. “You will also recall that in 2018, the constitution was amended. In addition to the extant provision for the registration of political parties, the Fourth Alteration to the Constitution (Section 225A) empowers the commission to deregister political parties. “Prior to the Fourth Alteration, the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) had provided for the deregistration of political parties. Based on this provision, the commission, between 2011 and 2013, deregistered 39 political parties. However, several of the parties challenged the power of INEC to deregister them, particularly on the ground that the Electoral Act is inferior to the constitution and that deregistration infringed their fundamental rights under the same constitution. “Subsequently, the courts ordered the commission to reinstate the parties. It was for this reason that the National Assembly amended the constitution to empower the commission to deregister political parties on certain grounds. “In order to implement the provision of the Fourth Alteration to the constitution, the commission carried out an assessment of political parties to determine their compliance with the requirements for their registration. “Similarly, following the conclusion of the 2019 general elections, including court-ordered re-run elections arising from litigations, the commission was able to determine the performance of political parties in the elections. In addition, they were also assessed on the basis of their performance in the area council elections in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) which coincided with the 2019 general elections. It should be noted that the FCT is the only part of the country where INEC is empowered by the constitution to conduct local government elections. “Consequently, the commission has determined that 16 political parties have fulfilled the requirements for existence based on Section 225A of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) as follows: Accord Party (AP), Action Alliance (AA), African Action Congress (AAC), African Democratic Congress (ADC), African Democratic Party (ADP), All Progressives Congress (APC), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), and Allied Peoples Movement (APM). “Others are Labour Party (LP), New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), National Rescue Movement (NRM), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Young Progressive Party (YPP), and Zenith Labour Party (ZLP),” he said. Yakubu said that 75 political parties did not satisfy the requirements of the Fourth Alteration to the constitution and that one of the parties, the Action Peoples Party (APP), filed a suit in court and obtained an order restraining the commission from deregistering it. “Consequently, the party remains registered pending the determination of the case by the court,” Yakubu said, adding that the new political party, Boot Party (BP), registered by court order after the 2019 general elections will also continue to exist. “Accordingly, 74 political parties are hereby deregistered. With this development, Nigeria now has 18 registered political parties,” he said.