Gov Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri Saturday during a town hall meeting in Numan revealed that his administration will on this month implement the consequential adjustment of the National Minimum wage on state government workers from level seven and above. The Governor who disclosed this while addressing elders, academics, trade unions, religious groups, party leaders among other representatives of stakeholders in Numan, said the meeting was to review the progress so far achieved by the present administration and know the problems of the people in the state. The Governor said  government has implemented N32,000 as national minimum wage for workers in the state and efforts are in top gear to reposition the civil service through improvement in the welfare of workers and give them other incentives. He said the present administration has so far invested about N8 billion in the primary school education in the state adding that renovation of the schools were ongoing and government has sent consultants for assessment of schools in the state for necessary intervention. The Governor added that education remained the top priority of government, and so far the state government has implemented free education in the state and introduced ministry of entrepreneurship development which has trained more than two thousand youths and women in the state. On security, the Governor said his administration has restructured the security architecture of the state to curb security challenges and announced that he has written to the Nigerian Army for deployment of a battalion in Numan federation so as to curb emerging security threats in the area and beyond. Governor Umaru Fintiri debunked  the rumours that his administration has disengaged 5000 workers in the state, reiterating that only workers that were employed through irregularities and nepotism were rejected, promising that government will soon employ 2000 teachers followed by health workers among others in some ministries.  While lamenting on the issue of misappropriation of funds perpetrated by some corrupt individuals in the previous administrations, said soon he will constitute judicial panel of enquiry to probe people that looted the state coffers and bring them to book to serve as deterrent to others and restore sanity in governance.  He disclosed that government discovered over 1000 dead persons on the payroll of pensioners in the state at the ongoing verification exercise of pensioners in the state which he described as uncalled for and promised to address corruption in the whole system.  The Governor said his administration has inherited huge burden of debt in the state and to clear the debt, government is paying over one billion naira monthly, assuring that no stone will be left unturned in sanitizing the system under his watch, calling for prayers and support from people.  He said he has instructed the renovation of General hospital Numan, and people of the local government will not be left behind in the scheme of governance, adding that his administration will not betray people.