The Director General Bureau for Public Procurement (BPP) Alhaji Maman Ahmadu has on Sunday in Kano called on all the Federal Permanent Secretaries to collectively ensure the judicious use of funds and avoid bad procurement practice that can lead to insufficient procurements, Litigations, inflated contracts and abandonment of projects. He maintained that the call had became necessary in view of the emerging negative trend affecting the prices of Oil being the mainstay of the nation’s economy. The DG made the disclosure at the 2019 retreat for Federal Permanent Secretaries held at the Bristol Hotel. Kano. According to him, ” it is important to remind us of the declining prices of crude oil which is our main source of financing the nation’s Budget this had put more pressure on the already insufficient funds for our national development” The DG who crept the indulgence of the Participants explained that the Annual Retreat is organised by the BPP in collaboration with the Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation and it is one of the most important activities of the Bureau in the recent time. DG Ahmed pointed out that the retreat which is aimed at widening the horizon of the Permsecs given their roles as top echelon of the nation’s bureaucracy which involved the implementation of public procurement reforms. In her remarks, the ag Head of the Civil Service of the Federation Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan hailed the tradition of the BPP for keeping faith with organizing the annual retreat for Permsecs. Accountant General of Federation, and Auditor General of the Federation. While tracing their Constitutional roles the HOS said according to financial regulations the term “Accounting officer” means the Permanent Secretary of a Ministry or Head of an Extra – Ministerial office incharged of and responsible for all human, and material, financial resources which are critical inputs in the management of the organization. Hence by implication you should be liable for any breach or contravention, even if caused by any acting on your behalf. Consequently such Liability arising from accountability failure may not cease even after leaving office. ” On their parts, the Chairman Senate Committee on Public Procurement Senator Isah Lau, and his counterpart from the House of Representatives Honourable Nasir Ali Ahmed said the retreat is an important opportunity for all the stake holders to interact with one another, think and have a better understanding of the procurement system and the appropriate techniques required for the implementation of the annual budget. ” there are two cardinal principles of the 9th Senate agenda one of which is the return to January to December Annual budget cycle through a timely but thorough passage of the budget estimate.”