As the country joined other nations of the world to mark International Cancer Day 2020, EKOCORP (EKO Hospital) yesterday embarked on a walk targeted towards enlightening people about the diseases and the benefits of early screening to enable early detection of cases and treatments. Fielding questions from journalists during the walk in Lagos, the Chief Executive Officer, EKOCORP Plc, (Eko Hospital), Dr. Ademolu Owoyele said the hospital is set to pay up to 25 per cent of any form of cancer treatment raging from cancer surgery to chemotherapy to radiotherapy to vaccination. He emphasized that the march which was put in place by the Eko cancer centre of the hospital, is to commemorate the world cancer day which is celebrated Worldwide every February 4th. According to him,  the cancer center of the hospital has began its the cancer programme which will run from 1st of February to end of February, adding that the programme is going to be screening over 5000 women free of charge. He noted that, “The main objective of the programme is to increase the awareness of cancer and to increase the number of people that can screen themselves and they can detect it early. And after detection, the hospital is ready to pay 25 per cent of the hospital bill for every form of treatment for cancer within that period. “All inspections of treatment we are going to be doing that, from free screen to 25 per cent off treatment bill, in other to reduce the burden of cancer in Nigeria and West Africa”. He added that, “To reduce the burden of cancer in the world, it is always holistic, it’s not just about treating cancer, performing surgery, it begins with raising awareness, sensitising people for them to actually know that they have to screen themselves, because the best way to actually treat cancer is through early detection, once you detect it early, then you can actually treat it. Also speaking the chief strategy and business development officer, Dr. Kunle Megbuwawon said cancer has been a scourge to. humanity, saying they realized that don’t have to wait till someone has cancer before they start taking care of it. So we are proclaiming the concept of early detection, health screening so that we prevent people from developing or coming down with cancer,” he said. 