Chairman, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Abdullahi Adamu Candido, has urged residents of the council to remain calm over his purported two weeks suspension. Recall that attempt by members of the legislative arm of the council to suspend the AMAC chairman over alleged abuse of office was thwarted by persons who invaded the chamber while the proceeding was still ongoing. It was gathered that the purported suspension came after the chairman, as well as the representative of the petitioners, Civil Society for Human Rights and Rehabilitation,  appeared before the chambers for questioning. Consequently, other legislative proceedings could not also continue as the mace was seized from the chambers, and the council secretariat was tensed as workers scampered for safety due to sporadic gunshots. Reacting to the development, Candido described what transpired as merely a figment of imagination, which cannot hold, because due process was not adhered to. He urged the citizens and residents of AMAC to be calm, as he still remains the chairman of the council. According to him, “The councillors need to search their conscience, because I humbly appeared before them following their invitation. “They told me that they are going to raise a committee to investigate the allegations against me, and I said I am in support of it. I am however surprised at their action, which is not within the confines of the law. “Meanwhile, following the recent uproar in Abuja Municipal Area Council against its chairman, Hon. Abdullahi Adamu Candido, on issues of abuse of office and non-performance, marshal general, AMAC marshal, Kassim Isyaku Chicha, has refuted such claims and described protesters as mischief makers, people who are used, sponsored, aided and abated by some aggrieved individuals who want to pocket the council chairman and the council resources by all means. Isyaku said this during a press briefing in Abuja, adding that the convener of this group, Civil Society for Human Rights is known for its cash and carry style of activism, he is well paid by some politicians to come out in public and whip up sentiments, deceiving our indigenous brothers and sisters to believe that he is working for their interest. “The so-called protest embarked upon by this people who see themselves as indigenes or residents of AMAC, do not represent the interest of the larger segment of the AMAC family. They are not representing the indigenous people of the council and residents as well, he said.