The World Health Organization (WHO) has predicted global rise in cancer by 60 per cent in 2040 In a statement to commemorate this year’s World Cancer Day, WHO said there is possibility of saving seven million people from the disease, if countries improve on cancer services. The organisation said the greatest increase (an estimated 81per cent) in new cases would occur in low- and middle-income countries, where survival rates are currently lowest, if needed measures are not taken against the disease. “This is largely because these countries have had to focus limited health resources on combating infectious diseases and improving maternal and child health, while health services are not equipped to prevent, diagnose and treat cancers. “In 2019, more than 90 per cent of high-income countries reported that comprehensive treatment services for cancer were available in the public health system compared to less than 15 per cent of low-income countries,” the statement said. WHO highlights a wide range of proven interventions to prevent new cancer cases, including controlling tobacco use (responsible for 25 per cent of cancer deaths), vaccinating against hepatitis B to prevent liver cancer, eliminating cervical cancer by vaccinating against HPV, screening and treatment, implementing high-impact cancer management interventions that bring value for money and ensuring access to palliative care including pain relief. The organisation tasked every country to choose appropriate innovative therapies that are effective in managing cancer without causing financial hardship to its people. According to the assistant director general, Universal Health Coverage/ Communicable and Noncommunicable Diseases, WHO, Dr Ren Minghui, “This is a wake-up call to all of us to tackle the unacceptable inequalities between cancer services in rich and poor countries. If people have access to primary care and referral systems then cancer can be detected early, treated effectively and cured. Cancer should not be a death sentence for anyone, anywhere.” Director general, WHO,  Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus also stated that “At least 7 million lives could be saved over the next decade, by identifying the most appropriate science for each country situation, by basing strong cancer responses on universal health coverage, and by mobilizing different stakeholders to work together.”