Fourth prosecution witness for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, in the trial of former governor, Gabriel Suswam of Benue State, Abubakar Umar, has told Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court, Abuja, that his earlier evidence for the anti-graft agency before the court were lies. He said he had to lie to the court due to pressure put on him by unknown persons. During the trial yesterday, Umar, among other things, admitted to the court that he gave contradictory evidence against the defendants on January 31, 2020, February 3, 2020, February 4, 2020, February 5, 2020, and February 12, 2020. Recall that on May 5, 2016, Mr Umar in his evidence before Justice A. R. Mohammed of the same court stated that sometime in the year 2014, he delivered the dollar equivalent of the sum of N3.1 billion in cash to officials of the Benue State Government at the Government House in Benue, and that he was not aware, if the said sum was handed to Suswam. The prosecution therefore brought an application before the court on January 31, 2018, to declare Mr. Umar a hostile witness because his evidence before the court amounted to “a summersault,” arguing that the witness had earlier informed the EFCC that he delivered the money in question to Senator Suswam personally at his Maitama residence in Abuja. After the Justice Mohammed declared Umar a hostile witness, the EFCC witness informed the court on January 31, 2018, that his understanding of Government House was wherever the governor lives and therefore, Senator Suswam’s Abuja private residence was a Government House. However, following a transfer of the case file from Justice Mohammed to Justice Abang of the same court, Mr. Umar was again called as a prosecution witness but this time, not declared a hostile witness On January 4, 2020, Umar under cross-examination by counsel to Suswam, Chinelo Ogbozor, admitted that his evidence before Justice Mohammed was a lie, and insisted that he did not receive money from anybody to lie to the court. When asked if he knows the persons who influenced or pressurised him to lie or their phone numbers, the witness answered in the negative. Again, the witness was asked by Ogbozor, if the EFCC or the police investigated his telephone records to identify the callers whom he claimed put him to his lie, the witness answered in the negative. Under cross-examination by Ogbozor, Mr. Umar, who had stated in his evidence-in-chief that he converted the vexed sum from naira to dollars within two to three days and handed same to Suswam, recanted and stated that it took him four days to convert the money from naira to dollars. Umar further recanted from his earlier evidence before Justice Mohammed where he stated that the Government House was wherever the governor lives, stating instead that he said he took the money to the Government House. When Ogbozor asked the witness, if he was under administrative bail by the EFCC, Umar answered in the affirmative, stating also that he was granted bail by the anti-graft commission after he recanted his testimony before Justice Mohammed. He concluded his first cross-examination by admitting that he had told the Court 3 contradicting versions of how he delivered money to Suswam.  