Tension mounted yesterday among stakeholders as the Supreme Court fixed today to decide on the applications for the review of its judgements in the governorship cases in Imo and Zamfara States. Last month, Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was sacked by the apex court as the governor of Imo State, which replaced him with Senator Hope Uzodimma of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Also, on May 2019, the apex court sacked all the elected candidates of the APC in Zamfara during the 2019 general elections for not holding legal primaries to select them. The five-member panel of justices, in a unanimous judgment had held that the state chapter of the party failed to conduct primaries in accordance with the APC’s rules. Among those affected by the judgement were the governor-elect, Mukhtar Shehu Idris, Senators Abdulazeez Yari (Zamfara West), Aliyu Ikra Bilbis (Zamfara Central); Kaura Tijjani Yahaya (Zamfara North), seven elected members of the House of Representatives and 24 House of Assembly members. They were all replaced by PDP candidates led by Governor Bello Muhammad Matawalle. Not satisfied with the court’s decision, Ihedioha, Idris and others filed appeals for the review of the judgements which nullified their elections. In the case of Ihedioha, a seven-member panel of the apex court had in a judgment delivered on January 14, 2020 removed him from office on the grounds that he did not win majority of the votes cast in the March 9 governorship election in the state. The apex court held that the electoral umpire in declaring Ihedioha winner of the poll failed to take into recognition votes cast in 388 polling units in the said election, adding that if the over 200,000 votes were added, it would give Uzodinma the highest votes cast. Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, who read the lead judgement, consequently held that with the votes added to Uzodinma’s from the 388 polling units originally excluded from the figures declared by INEC, the APC candidate was the lawful winner of the election. However, Ihedioha on February 5, 2020 approached the court to set aside its own judgment, which removed him from office. He said that he had to do so because the judgment was a nullity in the sense that the court was misled in arriving at the decision to sack him. In his application Ihedioha and thePDP through their lawyer and former attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Chief Kanu Agabi (SAN), arguedthat the court was misled because the petition against the election was speculative. In the lead judgment by Justice Paul Adamu Galinji, in the case of Zamfara, the apex court held that all votes cast for the APC were “wasted votes” and declared that the political parties with the second highest votes in the elections and the required spread, are elected to the various positions The APC had won the gubernatorial as well as all the national and state assembly seats in the state, but the joy of those elected was shortlived when the Court of Appeal declared that their party did not conduct valid primaries, which the apex court affirmed. Court stops INEC’s deregistration of political parties Meanwhile, Justice Anwuli Chikere of the Federal High Court, Abuja, has restrained the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from deregistering 31 political parties. Justice Chikere, in her ruling yesterday, said that having failed to counter the application by the affected parties, they had the legal right which must be protected. On February 6, 2020, the electoral umpire deregistered 74 political parties, but left 18 others. However, in a motion on notice with suit number: FHC//ABJ/ CS/444/19 between Advanced Congress of Democrats (ACD) and 32 others Vs Attorney-General of the Federation and a others, the applicants prayed the court for a restraining order. Before INEC wielded the big stick, the applicants had approached the court for “an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the 2nd defendant from deregistering the plaintiffs, or any political party for that matter, pending the determination of this suit. “And for such further order(s) as this honourable court may deem fit to make in the circumstances.” They sought for the order on the grounds that “the Plaintiffs as registered political parties have been carrying out their constitutional/statutory duties and functions without any funding from government. “The plaintiffs have been canvassing for votes and nominating candidates for elections into electoral constituencies in Nigeria. On June 4, 2018, the President signed the Constitution of’ the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (Fourth Alteration No. 9) Act, 2017 into law. “By the said Act, a new Section (225A) was inserted into the constitution, which provides grounds for the deregistration of political parties.” The court had on October 30, 2019 adjourned the ruling on the matter to January 23, 2020, but Justice Chikere again adjourned the ruling till yesterday since INEC was not represented in the court. Delivering her ruling, the judge noted that the plaintiffs had sought for the order restraining the electoral umpire from deregistering them. She said the plaintiffs averred that they were registered political parties which have been canvassing for votes and that the 2nd defendant did not file any counter-affidavit. “The facts sworn to in the affidavit in support of the application remained unchallenged, undisputed and deemed to be true by the court. “If any material fact alleged in an affidavit is not denied in a counter-affidavit, an admission of the fact is implied,” she held, citing relevant laws. Justice Chikere also confirmed that there was “evidence of proof of service on the 2nd defendant and that INEC refused, neglected, failed to respond to the motion filed by the applicants.” “Having not contested this motion by filing counter-affidavit, the affidavit evidence of the plaintiffs is deemed true, not controverted or challenged. Accordingly, the 2nd defendant is hereby restrained from deregistering the plaintiffs pending the determination of the substantive suit,” he ruled. After the ruling, Tanimu Inuwa, counsel to INEC, told the court to give them time to hear the substantive matter. IPAC’s Victory,Triumph For Democracy – Ameh In a reaction to the ruling, the president of the Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC), High Chief Peter Ameh, described the interlocutory injunction as triumph of citizens’ rights to freedom of association. Ameh told a press conference in Abuja that the court ruling had reinstated all the 74 deregistered political parties. According to the IPAC president, who doubles as the national chairman of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), INEC had lost the right to deregister them. He commended members of the council for not taking laws into their hands while the matter lasted, adding that INEC’s action of deregistering the parties penultimate week was provocative. He also stressed that the significance of the court ruling indicated that the political parties believed in the rule of the law. The IPAC president stated that with the ruling the right to freedom of association would be reinforced as INEC would no longer deregister parties unlawfully.