The Edo State Commissioner for Energy and Water Resources, Moses Agbukor has reassured that the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration will not relent on its efforts in delivering the dividends of democracy to the people of the state, noting that the governor has in the last three years proved to Edo residents that he is an agent of good governance. The commissioner spoke to journalists in Benin City, when he received a certificate of integrity stewardship as a ‘Service Ambassador’, by the Centre for Peace and Self Value Re-orientation. Commending the governor for giving him the opportunity to serve, Agbukor described Obaseki as a man of integrity who has zero tolerance for corruption, adding, “Governor Obaseki has mandated us to be transparent in all we do because we are accountable to the people of Edo State.” The commissioner, who reassured that Edo will be open defecation-free in 2025, noted that the award will be a motivation to do more for the people of the state. According to him, “Governor Obaseki’s administration is the best in terms of good governance; he should be begged to contest for a second term because it is Edo people who would benefit from this. “The governor has done so much in terms of providing water for rural dwellers. Over 100 water and sanitation projects have been implemented in the state since 2017. Obaseki is not interested in making noise with his achievements but from the first week in March, we will commence commissioning of these projects across the state.” “This administration has done well in the water sector than any other government. By 2025, open defecation should no longer be tolerated in Edo State as the governor is investing in projects to make this a reality”, he added. Earlier, the Executive Director of Centre for Peace and Self Value Re-orientation, Comrade Abraham Oyibo commended the Obaseki-led administration for implementing people-oriented projects to better the lives of Edo people. He said the Obaseki-led administration has performed excellently as far as good governance is concerned, adding, “This government has brought to bear a lot of human capacity development projects and is taking governance to the grassroots. The government has embarked on projects that directly impacts on the masses. “The role of ethical leadership and socio-economic development of any country can’t be over emphasized; hence our visit here today is to say a big thank you for thinking right, acting ethically and serving as an advocate for good governance”. The Commissioner for Social Development and Gender Issues, Hon. Maria Edeko, who called on the people of Edo state to continue supporting the governor in his second term bid, applauded Governor Obaseki for ensuring water got to her village in Ekpoma, after 50 years of neglect by past administrations. “The purpose of good governance is re-enacted in Edo State as the state will be used as spring board for the nation. I call on Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), activists and all concerned Edo people to support the Governor to achieve his second term ambition so as to continue with the rapid development across the State”