In this report, ANKELI EMMANUEL examines how the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) intervention in onion farming through its Anchor Borrowers scheme will yield results for Nigeria from the hitherto abandoned goldmine. For the 10,012 onion farmers on the auspices of Onion Producers and Marketers of Nigeria (OPMAN) in the North-West zone of the country that are set to benefit from the CBN/OPMAN Anchor Borrowers programme, the intervention means more than anything else to them. Aside the fact that the over N3billion intervention scheme will help greatly in bringing out the value chain of onions, regarded as one of the nation’s abandoned goldmines, it will further lead to a boost of the nation’s GDP, as the commodity alone is capable of generating over $420million annually if properly harnessed. Speaking in Sokoto recently at the official flag-off of the CBN/OPMAN Onion Anchor Borrowers programme, the Governor of CBN, Godwin Emefiele, said the apex bank has been partnering with farmers through various schemes. The CBN governor, who was represented by Faruk Abdullahi at the occasion, noted with enthusiasm that they are committed to the diversification agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari, hence their readiness to always collaborate with farmers via different measures. For his part, the Sokoto state governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, who reeled out his commitments to the agricultural sector, said the sector got the third highest budgetary allocation in the state’s 2020 fiscal year budget. Tambuwal, who was represented by the Commissioner for Agriculture, Muhammed Arzika Tureta, told the gathering that, he has engaged experts to study what variety of fertile soil is predominant in the local government areas of the state. Backing his claims, the governor assured that, his government would not relent in rendering assistance to farmers in the state, as they constitute the bulk of the people of Sokoto state. Supporting Tambuwal’s position in assisting farmers, his Katsina state counterpart, Governor Aminu Bello Masari, represented by the Director, Agricultural Services in the Ministry for Local Government Affairs, Alhaji Muhammadu Buhari Tago, appealed to would-be beneficiaries to judiciously use the CBN loan. Assuring his commitment to the CBN/OPMAN Onion Anchor Borrowers Scheme, Masari assured that, his government was committed to ensuring that each local government in Katsina state has an extension officer in charge of onion farming. Giving insights into how the nation has abandoned the goldmine of onion farming, which is capable of not only generating bogus revenue but also making Nigeria to take the lead as the largest producer of onions in Africa, the OPMAN national secretary, Aliyu Isah Maitasamu, challenged farmers at all levels to take advantage of the current border closure and boost their production capacities. According to him, “Now that our borders have been closed, that becomes another avenue for our local farmers to strive towards self-sufficiency in onion farming.” Maitasamu, who empathically revealed OPMAN’s dream and target of making Nigeria a leader in Africa as far as onion farming is concerned, added that the CBN intervention was a good omen towards realising that dream. He further explained the interventions to include farm inputs such as fertilisers, water pumping machines, herbicides as well as improved onion seeds will be given to farmers and financial aids to enable them expand their businesses. While disclosing that no fewer than 10,012 onion farmers are to benefit from the CBN’s N3billion Anchor Borrowers scheme, the secretary assured that the initiative will no doubt helped in enhancing the onions value chains. Maitasamu added that a total annual global production of onion as at 2018 was 75,250,809 metric tons while revealing that Nigeria is the second largest producer of onion in Africa with its annual production of 1.4 million metric tons behind Egypt that produces 2.2 million metric tons. He noted that Nigeria is ranked as the number 6th largest producer of green onions in the world and 11th in terms of dry onion production. According to OPMAN secretary, despite Nigeria is the largest onion producer in sub-Saharan Africa, it has an annual demand of 2.5 million metric tons but currently produces 1.4 million metric tons (worth $250m) thus leaving a gap of 1.1 million metric tons deficit. He therefore decried the situation where onion farmers also suffer severe loss because of inadequate storage facilities, which often than not compels them to sell their commodities at a loss. According to him, a bag of onion sells for N5,000 during the glut period and between N30,000 to N50,000 during the off-season. “Nigeria requires 1.1 million metric tons of onion to meet its domestic consumption. It records post-harvest losses of 50 to 60 percent of its total production annually. The country also has inadequate and poor onion storage facilities, which explains why onion in Nigeria is faced with low price during its harvesting season. And most pathetically, is the fact that, 98 percent of the farmers lack the technical know-how in terms of post-harvest handling of onions. They are also faced with non-availability of improved seeds hence most of these seeds are imported,” Maitasamu added. The OPMAN national secretary, who noted that the total onion cultivated land areas according to agricultural performance survey by NAERLS in 2018  was  550,400 hectares, added that, average yield per hectare stood at 14.8 to 24 metric tons. While confirming that the major states where onions are produced in Nigeria include Sokoto, Kebbi, Adamawa, Kano, Kaduna, Plateau and Bauchi, he pointed out that “Sokoto is the highest onion producing state in Nigeria with 169,300mt produced annually.” “This is followed by Adamawa and Kebbi state ranked 2nd and 3rd respectively. Other states that also produces onion in Nigeria includes, Zamfara, 111,700mts, and cultivates 26,700 hectares of land. Kano with 99,700mts in 50,800 hectares of land, Kaduna,99.000mts cultivated in 30,800 hectares of land. Katsina, 94, 800 in 38,700 hectares. Yobe harvest 93,900mts from 49,300 hectares, Bauchi harvest 91,400mts from 42.300 hectares, Gombe cultivates 47,600 hectares and harvest 86,900mts. Jigawa cultivates 34.700 hectares and has annual harvest of 79.300mts “Other states include, Borno with an annual harvest of 70.300 from 17,900 hectares, Taraba harvested 68,700mt from 12,600 hectares of land. Benue harvested 50,100 from 26,100 hectares, Plateau harvested 47,800mts from 37,600 hectares and lastly, Lagos that cultivated 3,900 hectares of land with a harvest of 8,100mts,” he revealed. Elaborating on the health benefits of onions, OPMAN Secretary said, “Onion is high in food value, intermediate in protein, rich in calcium, and rivoflavin” According to him, matured onion contains approximately 86 percent water, 11 percent CHO, 1.4 percent protein, 0.2 percent fat, 0.8 percent fibre and 0.6 percent Ash. It is used in curing heart diseases, cancer and help to control blood pressure, which is prevalent in our society today”. While noting that, the product is highly in need by food industries such as (noodles, indomie, and seasoning), Pharmaceutical industries as well as processing industries (unilever, Nestle, Maggi, Dufil), Aliyu listed top onion markets in Nigeria to include both the Open, Regional, and Institutional. “Examples of the open markets include, Lagos state mile 12, Eleme, Yamzu, Mile 3 and Fruits Garden in Port Harcourt, other big open markets are found in Enugu, Kogi (Lokoja), Abuja (Diye-Diye, Kano, Kaduna and lots more in various states of the federation. “Regional markets for onions in Nigeria include, Niger Republic (Madawa, Sabon Gida, Niamey), Ghana (Accra) and Burkina Faso. And the The institutional markets includes, Nestle, Unilever, Sotracom Niger SA, Shoprite, SPAR, Eco-Sahel, Restaurants, Eateries and lots more,” he noted. The OPMAN national secretary who further submitted that, Nigeria stand to generate 420 million dollars from exporting onions annually if the value chain of onion in Nigeria is developed, however, called on state and federal governments as well corporate organizations to increase support to onion producers. “Both the state and federal government as well as corporate organizations and wealthy individuals need to extend more collaboration either in form of Private Public Partnership (PPP) to construct improved onion storage facilities. The government should also strive more in extending invitations to major processing companies that will transform onions to power, paste and oil. Above all, the Nigeria export promotion council should redouble its efforts by collaborating with public and private sectors on onion export”. Aliyu advised. Reacting to the CBN intervention, some of the Onion farmers, said, they will not only pay back whatever they are given as grants as and when due but also assured that, they will be ready to collaborate with other agencies to help deliver the onion value chain. Ibrahim Goronyo, an onion farmer and a beneficiary of the anchor borrowers project, said gone are the days, when people takes anything coming from government for granted, adding that, they have now seen the importance of making judicious use of whatever they are given to pave the way for others in the future. “Gone are the days when people misused whatever assistance from government with the belief that it is free. We are wiser now, and I can assure you that, we will pay back whatever is required from us even before the expiration of our agreement,” Goronyo assured.