Piqued by the incessant protests arising from the Supreme Court judgement that sacked Chief Emeka Ihedioha as governor of the state and the declaration of Senator Hope Uzodinma as the new governor of the state, the Imo State House of Assembly yesterday, warned that it would no longer fold its arms and watch the peace of the state threatened as the House has concluded plans to write officially to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to deal decisively with any lawbreaker. The motion which was moved by Hon Kennedy Ibeh representing Obowo state constituency was supported by 19 other co-sponsors. Ibeh argued that the protesters who are being imported from Abia and Anambra states if allowed to continue their actions would set the state on fire thereby disrupting the existing peace in the state. Ibeh alleged that INEC conspired to “rob Imo people of their mandate “. “I urge my colleagues to commend the judiciary for its courage in standing for justice and for restoring the mandate of Imo people to Senator Hope Uzodidnma who they elected on March 9, 2019. “Pass a vote of absolute confidence on the judiciary in general and Supreme Court in particular and follow up with letter to this effect to the Chief Justice of Nigeria. “ Condemn in its entirety, the reckless and lawless incitement of the public to stage protest against the judiciary and the government of Imo State by Rt. Hon Emeka Ihedioha and the PDP. “Call for the immediate investigation and prosecution of the Resident Electoral Commissioner and the state Returning Officer for criminal conspiracy to rob Imo people of their mandate,” he said. The resolutions were affirmed when the speaker, Collins Chiji (Isiala Mbano constituency), put them to a voice vote. The lawmakers have also called for the immediate arrest and prosecution of the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) and the Returning Officer (RO) of the 2019 governorship election in the state for what they described as a “conspiracy to rob the Imo people of their votes”. Ibeh had noted that the electoral officers erred when they abinitio declared Emeka Ihedioha winner of the 2019 governorship election. According to the lawmaker who sited a section of the constitution which prevents the electoral officers from declaring whoever did not win a majority votes cast as a duly elected governor pointed out that this is a clear reason for the INEC officers to be prosecuted. According to Ibeh “the motion will bring sanity to the people of Imo, we would no longer fold our arms when such things happen, especially when it concerns the peace of the state.” Also, the state lawmakers has proposed a commendation letter to be written to the Chief Justice of the Federation for reassuring the people that the court is the last hope of the common man. In a related development, the House has passed a vote of confidence on Governor Uzodinma for his outstanding performance so far since he assumed office. According to the lawmaker representing Ideato south state constituency, Duru Johnson “the swearing -in of Senator Hope Uzodinma has brought normalcy to the state unlike Ihedioha who came with intimidation, vindictiveness and harassment, his hundred days in office has nothing to show but the twenty eight days of Uzodinma, workers welfare was restored, they have brand new cars, Imo is proud over the turn of event”. Meanwhile, another member of the House, Uju Onwudiwe who recently defected to APC after her victory in the rerun for Njaba state constituency, has urged Charles Oputa, popularly known as Charly Boy to desist from inciting citizens of the state with his “Our Mumu don do” protests. “We have had enough of this show being acted by Charly Boy, Imo is not a theatre for such show biz, he should stop inciting Imo citizens that have been known for peace,” Onwudiwe said.  