The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) through the Abuja Markets Management Limited (AMML) has commenced fumigation exercise in all its markets in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to avoid the outbreak of Lassa fever and other diseases. The fumigation exercise, which took place in Wuse market yesterday, was conducted on the entire market facility, especially the drainages, informal sector of the market where food stuffs are sold and stored and other places, to kill rodents and other insects. The head, corporate communications of AMML, Mr. Innocent Amaechina, who monitored the exercise, told newsmen that emergency preparedness is part of the routine duty of the market managers. “I want you to know that at this time of the year, we have always carried out this fumigation exercise. Its just a coincidence that it is happening now when there is a loud cry about sensitization on Lassa fever and coronavirus infections”. “But for us as facility management body, emergency preparedness is part of our routine duty. So, just as we prepare for fire, we also prepare for epidemics. So, we don’t wait for it to happen before we prepared and we have been doing this at interval, at least minimum of two times every year.” Amaechina revealed that the market managers also use every available opportunity to sensitise the market users especially the traders on how to maintain hygiene in the market, adding that the fumigation exercise would be conducted in all its 15 markets in the territory. Also speaking, Ismaila Haruna Dankogi of Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), maintained that residents of the FCT need not to worry about any outbreak of Lassa fever, because the board has always been involved in the routine cleaning of markets and other places. Dankogi advised residents to imbibe the culture of cleanliness because it’s a way of life. Responding, the secretary of Wuse Market Traders Association, Alhaji Abubakar Abdullahi Dangara said that the association has been sensitizing members especially those in the informal sector, on how to wash their table on a daily basis and clean the environment to ensure that whatever they sell is safe for public consumption.