Despite the federal and state governments’ efforts to check micronutrient deficiencies in the country, the scourge has simply refused to go away. ODIRI UCHENUNU-IBEH highlights the challenges and presents stakeholders’ solutions to them. The public health significance of micronutrient deficiencies worldwide is classified as severe and the reason is not far-fetched. While micronutrients such as vitamin A, zinc, Iron, folic acid and iodine are required in small amount for proper growth and development, their deficiency in the body comes with great consequences. For instance, a United Nations Children’s Fund (’s) report revealed that every day in Nigeria, 2,300 under-five year old children die, with malnutrition being the underlying cause of more than half of these deaths. Also, micronutrient deficiencies have been identified as significant problems that have persisted overtime in the country. The recent Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS 2018) data showed that 68 per cent of children six to 59 months of age and 58 per cent of women of reproductive age in Nigeria are anemic, with at least a third of the anemia attributable to iron deficiency. The report also revealed that the prevalence of anemia among children age 12 to 17 months is 81 per cent. For zinc deficiency, a report by the National Nutrition and Health Survey (NNHS 2015), shows that the national prevalence is estimated at 20 per cent. Based on this evidence, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and UNICEF recommend zinc with Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) in the treatment for diarrhoea. Despite these alarming statistics, The NNHS 2018 report showed that only 40.8 per cent of children age six to 59 months received vitamin A and only 40.4 per cent of children age 12 to 59 month were dewormed. For the federal government to win the war against micronutrient deficiencies, stakeholders who spoke with LEADERSHIP at a “Roundtable on Micronutrient Deficiency Control” organised by the Civil Society Scaling-Up Nutrition in Nigeria (CS-SUNN) in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, advocated for a more holistic approach. To them, policymakers and all stakeholders must move away from business as usual syndrome, to a more holistic approach, which must start at the grassroots. The executive secretary, CS-SUNN, Mrs Beatrice Eluaka, said that micronutrient deficiencies, which is caused by lack of essential vitamins and minerals, have been identified as a public health problem. Eluaka said: “Lack of vitamin A, zinc, iron and iodine in our diets can cause morbidity and mortality among children by impairing immunity, impeding cognitive development and growth as well as reducing physical capacity and work performance in adulthood. “Deficiencies in the aforementioned micronutrients are also the leading causes of anemia in women, birth defects, increased vulnerability to infections, blindness and poor development in children.” To tackle the issue of micronutrient deficiencies, Eluaka said that the provision of micronutrient powder like iron, folic acid, vitamin A supplement for pregnant women and children at the Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) level cannot be over-emphasised. She, however, called on state governments to scale up not only the provision and distribution of these supplement to withdrawn areas, but across health facilities during the maternal, new-born, child health week. Eluaka urged state governments yet to approve their State Specific Strategic Plan for nutrition to do so and to commence implementation and ensure releases with specific funds allotted to interventions around micronutrient powder, biofortification, iron folate supplementation and vitamin A. She said: “There is the need for massive sensitisation, education and awareness creation to provoke behavioural changes that would promote adequate infant and young child feeding practices in the country. For instance, early initiation of exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life and adequate complementary feeding, thereafter, is very crucial for baby survival.” Also, the deputy director and head, Micronutrient Deficiencies Control, Federal Ministry of Health, Mr John Uruakpa, identified essential minerals and vitamins needed for the proper growth and development as vitamin A, Iodine, iron, zinc and folate. Uruakpa said that the federal government had over the years made several efforts toward controlling micronutrient deficiency in the country. He said that the government’s strategies in response to micronutrient included food fortification, deworming, biofortification, dietary diversification and supplementation. “The Nigerian government has inaugurated the National Micronutrient Advisory Committee (NMNAC) in 2005 to advise the ministry of health on issues relating to micronutrient in the country. “Other interventions by the government are the establishment of National Fortification Alliance (NFA), a forum where government and private sectors meet to address issues relating to fortification; establishment of Universal Salt Iodisation (USI) task force; development of National Guidelines on Micronutrient Deficiency Control, and the development of food dietary diversification guideline.” On Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH), Uruakpa said that the government has highlighted WASH interventions as key for preventing and controlling diseases and parasitic infections that can induce iron deficiency. He pointed that efforts are consistently ongoing in Nigeria to improve the availability/access to basic water and sanitation infrastructure that will support optimal WASH practices. Uruakpa, however, said that the government cannot do it alone when it comes to tackling the issue of malnutrition, adding that more investment is required from partners and the private sector to address the scourge. “More investment is required in the area of micronutrient deficiency control by the government, the collaborating partners and the work of the media in creating awareness, sensitisation and educating the public about the scourge should not be over emphasised. “There is need to develop and implement policies and programmes that favour procurement and availability of MNDC commodities such as vitamin A, iron folate, and micronutrient powders,  used in the prevention of micronutrient deficiencies,” he added. Despite globalisation, the chief agriculture officer, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD), Adam Okpoju, said that the underlying causes of micronutrient deficiencies are household food insecurity, inadequate care and feeding practices and poor WASH practices. Okpoju said: “Lack of access to nutritious foods, lack of cash income and limited livelihood opportunities, sub-optimal Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF), poor knowledge on diet diversity and nutritious diets, poor knowledge and beliefs on IYCF, poor nutrition education, unsafe water supply, inadequate sanitation practices and poor knowledge and hygiene practices have marred the efforts of the government in tackling micronutrient deficiencies in Nigeria.” The unique role of agriculture in the fight against malnutrition, cannot be over-emphasised as it serves as the source of food; affects the income of the majority of the population and influences food prices, hence the reason why the FMARD came up with strategies that would help combat micronutrient deficiencies in the country, Okpoju said. He identified eight priority areas, which include “the enhancement value chains for improved nutrition. In this area, we looked at expanding bio-fortified staple foods in order to increase nationwide consumption and utilization, increase production of food crops, especially fruits and vegetables, increase production and processing of animal foods and postharvest loss reduction for improved nutrition. “In priority area two, we looked at diversifying household food production and consumption and increase access to micronutrient rich foods, all in a bid to scale up the production of vegetables and fruits, smallholder farmers, promoting homestead gardens and promoting school agriculture programmes. “Priority area three addresses the issue of food safety along the value chain. In that area, we try to promote Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) among farmers and scale up the use of modern drying and storage techniques and technologies, he added. Okpoju continued: “We also try to promote nutrition research and information systems to develop crop varieties with enhanced nutritional attributes and food products with improved nutritional attributes. “We tend to bio-fortified staple foods to increase nationwide consumption and utilisation. To achieve this, we looked at ways to promote increased production and consumption of pro-vitamin A maize and cassava, zinc and iron millet and sorghum and reduce post-harvest loss in grains, vegetables and fruits.” He said that the ministry also came up with interventions such as import substitution, subsidies on inputs like seeds, agro-chemicals, equipment; trade and investment incentives, zero tariff on agricultural equipment; waivers for companies with very high local content, tax holidays and export expansion grant. Others are insurance to de-risk production, processing and marketing in agriculture; Public Private Partnership (PPP), freezing of foreign exchange on certain commodities and tomato policies, whereby 50 per cent tariff was removed plus $150,000 on every metric tonne of tomato concentrate were given to farmers. He, however, reiterated that the ministry is poised to promote nutrition sensitive agriculture, support crop bio-fortification projects (orange fleshed sweet potato, vitamin A maize, vitamin A cassava, iron and zinc millet), support the implementation of the Home Grown School Feeding Programme, encourage the setting up of school gardens, adopt and promote GAP and support the conduct of national food consumption and micronutrient survey. But what is the government and partners doing to promote exclusive breastfeeding, which is the foundation of boosting child’s health? The executive director, Child Health Advocacy Initiative, Lola Alonge, said that her organisation is working with Lagos State and the federal government on how to improve the nutrition status of the country. Alonge, who is also the United Nations nutrition champion, said that “we do a lot of awareness campaign, and when we talk about nutrition; the foundation starts from breastfeeding. We try to inform the mothers to breastfeed their babies exclusively for six months, thereafter, introduce complimentary food together with breast milk, till two years. “We are also working with a lot of private organisations to see how they can set up crèche for breastfeeding mothers. We are working to establish a mobile room we called the “Mama Joy Breastfeeding Suite”, so when the mothers are outside home, they also can breastfeed their babies. “This we are trying to put in places such as the airports and parks. We are trying to put nutritionists on ground to assist the mothers. We are working with the Lagos State and the federal government to make that a reality,” she said.