The United States government has given the federal government conditions under which the recent visa ban on six countries, including Nigeria would be lifted. US Ambassador to Nigeria, Mrs Mary-Beth Leonard, gave the conditions when she visited the minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, in Abuja, yesterday. Leonard said that the policy would be reviewed once Nigeria improves her data intelligence, such that it would be easy to investigate any immigrant wishing to visit her country and meet information sharing systems. LEADERSHIP recalls that the US recently announced that the expansion of its visa restriction policy to curb immigration from six more countries, including Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country. This development means that citizens from Nigeria, Eritrea, Sudan, Tanzania, Kyrgyzstan, and Myanmar will now be blocked from obtaining certain types of visas. According to her, ”I think I need to clarify something for you here, the immigrant visa ban does not affect people who are currently resident in the United States. It does not cancel the status of anyone currently in the United States. ”What Mike Pompeo, US Secretary of States said was something that was meant to be temporary. And it is about problems with information sharing which are investigable, achievable and resolvable. ”We look forward to Nigeria in a very short while being able to meet the information sharing goal so that the decision can be reviewed. Also, students visas are not affected by the current visa ban, ’’she said. On the diversification policy, Leonard said that there was need for the skill set of Nigerians to be effectively harnessed and internationalised, such that they would not be seen as illegal immigrants when they go abroad to work. She added that ”I think for Nigeria, you have interesting story about diversification of your economy and the prosperity of your economy and its people. You know Nigerians are so well-known at home and abroad for their industriousness.” She, however, called on the Nigerian government to capture the entrepreneurial spirit in the informal sector by bringing it into the formal sector service to enhance employment generation in the country. In his response, Ngige described the immigrant visa ban by the US as punitive. The minister noted that Nigeria has over 70 per cent of professionals who migrated to the US for the betterment of their skills. ”This includes medical doctors, engineers, among others, who are resident in the US and when the United States government gave the ban it came to us as a rude shock that their illegal status would be cancelled. I will want to say that Nigerian professionals over there are highly qualified to have their residence visa status over there,’’ he said. The minister also called on the US government to meet its commitment to end child labour in the country. Ngige told the US envoy that the federal government was trying to tackle poverty, which remains one of the root causes of out-of-school children and child labour. The minister admitted that children were being sent to do menial works in coco farms and mining fields in Zamfara and Niger States, coco fields in Edo, Ekiti, Abia and others. He said: ”We are battling with that cultural aspect of it. If we can’t make it, we don’t have enough resources to make ourselves comfortable of feeding, the next thing is to have the children to go and work.” he said. The minister lamented that the country’s overdependence on oil had badly affected the economy, stressing that “our economy has gone down; we know we made the mistake of relying on petroleum products, and we now have a mono economy based on petroleum. When petroleum prices loop down, we had some insurgency in the area of production in the Niger Delta, our earning concomitantly, had to go down.”