Three media organisations: Daily Independent Newspapers; The Silverbird Group and NewsDirect Newspapers have thrown light on the reason for selecting the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki as the best governor in the country and an Extra Ordinary Personality for the year 2019. The renowned media outfits noted that their very rigorous review of the performance of governors across the country placed Obaseki ahead of his peers especially in the area of investment in human capacity development, job creation, healthcare, education, agriculture and infrastructural development, among others. The Silverbird Group honoured the governor as the year 2019 Extraordinary Personality, while Daily Independent and the NewsDirect named Governor Obaseki as the best Governor of the same year. While presenting the letter notifying the governor of the award during the Edo State Executive Council Meeting at Government House in Benin City, the Editor, Independent Newspaper, Don Okere, said the governor’s steadfastness and multidimensional approach in addressing issues in the state propped him up for the award. He noted, “Edo has been recognised as a model in education in the country under the Governor Obaseki-led administration. The governor has improved the socio-economic conditions of the people in the state.” The Chief Creative Officer, Silverbird Group, Mr. Jacob Akinyemi, said the Silverbird Man of the Year award started in 2005 and was initiated to recognise the contributions of outstanding persons to Nigeria’s development. He said Governor Obaseki and the former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu were the two persons recognised with the Silverbird Extraordinary Personality Awards. Managing Director, News Direct Newspaper, Prince Samuel Ibiyemi, said the governor is being bestowed with the award after the newspaper’s assessment of state governors’ performance in the country for the year 2019. After receiving the notification of the awards, the governor said it was a call to continue to prioritize the welfare of Edo people. He noted, “We had a clear vision in November 2016 that our concern was to prioritize the welfare of our people. We are transforming the nature and structure of our state, using the basic principles of governance of accountability and transparency to optimise our God-given resources.” Obaseki, who reassured that his administration would not relent in serving the people of the state, noted that Edo people are his prime priority, which is driving his motivation to build a vibrant economy.