From being the world’s second largest rice importer years back, the narrative appears to have changed as the Nigeria has  continued to take steps to ramp  domestic production. According to a recent report, Nigeria has overtaken Egypt as the largest rice producer in Africa. The Director-General, Africa Rice Center, Benin Republic, Dr Harold Roy-Macauley, who disclosed this, said Nigeria is now the largest rice producer at four million tons a year. Egypt was producing 4.3 tons annually but the country’s production had reduced by almost 40 per cent last year. Africa produces an average of 14.6 million tons of  rice annually, he explained. Indeed, the remarkable achievement recorded by the country in the area of rice production, as disclosed by Roy-Macauley, was the outcome of robust collaboration between the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, that focused on areas in the agriculture sector where the country has comparative advantage, in their quest to drastically reduce the nation’s huge import bill. However, the recent influx of foreign rice in Nigerian markets  through the land border not checked will fustrate the growing local rice production which experts believe is at the verge of collapse.  With the success recorded so far in the Agricultural sub sector amid  CBN, Ministry of Agriculture and Nigeria Customs service  contribution towards making sure Nigeria becomes self-sufficient in rice production in the world, it is important to note that if left unattended to, this sabotage will affect rice production in this coming farming season and we will not get it right again because many investors, both local and foreign, will be discouraged from investing in the fastest-growing and most improved  Agricultural sub sector in Nigeria. As part of efforts to reach different markets across the six geopolitical zones of the country, we spread our dragnet to Utako Market Abuja, Terminus Market Jos, Mile 3 Market Port-Harcourt, Ochanja  Market Onitsha; Ogbete Market in Enugu, G-Cappa/ Mile 2 Market Lagos, Jimeta Main Market Yola , Central Market kaduna and Singer Market Kano where we sadly  discovered that foreign rice is coming back ‘geometrically’ and Nigerians are going back to it even though it is not healthy but because of cost comparison and finishing. Nigeria’s biggest city, supermarket shelves remain stocked with a surplus of imported rice brands. In the markets, where most Nigerians buy their food, sacks of  rice are piled high, both Nigerian and imported rice. The question that needs an answer is ‘where is it coming from’.  The Way Out As we are all aware, the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Col. Hameed Ali (retd) a strong-willed man, who is determined to carry out border closure policy to the later cannot be at all the land borders and as a result, the bad elements among his officers and men are seen  aiding smuggling. Continuous confiscation of imported rice in the markets by customs agents will reduce the level of foreign rice influx into Nigerian local markets. The strengthening of imported rice tax force involving all stakeholders such as Nigeria Customs Service (NCS),  Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Rice Millers Association of Nigeria (RIMAN) , Rice Processors Association of Nigeria (RIPAN) , Rice dealers association of Nigeria , Nigerian Police and Agriculture or Agribusiness correspondents will produce unprecedented results. If this is not done and done very fast, the growing local rice production industry in Nigeria will collapse especially now that farming season is fast approaching, investors will lose money and there will be lost of jobs that has been created along the value chains. Finally, any country that cannot produce what its citizens consume cannot be said to be developing. This administration has been making efforts and inputs in terms of subsidies both in cash and materials to all sectors that have to do with agriculture and food production in the country. It is, therefore, very sad that same government agencies are aiding  importation of food at the same time through smuggling at the land border. May I announce that the Nigerian Farmers Forum (NFF) would soon be unveiled.