Preeclampsia is a dangerous pregnancy complication and one of the leading causes of maternal and infant mortality. CHRISTIANA NWAOGU writes that this undercover disease remains a nightmare to expectant mothers, hence, the urgent need for enlightenment Preeclampsia is pregnancy-induced hypertension and protein in the urine which affects some pregnant women. It is generally described as a pregnancy complication characterised by high blood pressure and signs of damage to another organ in the human system, mostly, the liver and kidneys. Pre-eclampsia is a condition that affects four to twenty in 100 women.Most cases of pre-eclampsia are mild and may have no effect on the pregnancy. LEDERSHIP Friday investigation has revealed that preeclampsia which has remained a nightmare to pregnant women usually begins after twenty (20) weeks of pregnancy in women whose blood pressure had been normal. Findings has further revealed that if left untreated, preeclampsia can lead to serious — even fatal — complications for both the pregnant woman and the unborn baby. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the incidence of preeclampsia is seven times higher in developing countries (2.8 per cent of live births) than in developed countries (0.4 per cent) Here’s the sad tale of an expectant mother who ended up with a minor stroke. For Mrs Abosede Afolarin, who met her waterloo seven months into her pregnancy, preeclampsia is a bitter experience. Mrs Afolarin who spoke to LEADERSHIP Friday and pleaded with yet to be mothers and pregnant women to adhere strictly to medical requirements as it concerns ante- natal said, “ I am partially responsible for my ordeal. I feel guilty because weeks after my registration at  one of the hospital’s under the watch of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) , I abandoned my ante- natal clinics due to insults from nurses, cleaners and even students doctors who subject pregnant women to untold pains and stress. “This is my story; I picked offence after my initial appointment was cancelled on grounds that I didn’t respond when my number was called during ante- natal.  Despite explaining to the nurses who usually check our vitals before sending us to doctors, I was given a new date which was  in another three weeks. “While at home, I decided to carry out my delivey at a prayer home/ traditional birth attendant,  so rather than go for ante-natal, I was attending prayers despite observing  that my feets, hands, and face were swollen. I kept  vomiting until I crossed into early 7 months when my husband insisted I revisit the hospital for proper attention. My BP kept rising, peaking at 200/145 . Prior to this emergency surgery, i was having fainting spells when walking, dizziness and was always throwing up. In fact ,“Whenever I walked I felt like there were puddles of water on my feet. I always told my husband that I felt as if fishes were swimming in my legs. “I used to wear size 39-40 shoes but shockingly I went up to 44 and started wearing my husband’s shoes. I could no longer wear any of my shoes. My feet were tired as they were so big and the headache was out of this world.” After running several X-rays and scan, as prescribed by the team I was scheduled for,   they ruled out a normal delivery. The doctor said i had to go through Caesarean Section (CS). My case was further complicated because I was also diagnosed with diabetes alongside preeclampsia. During the process, i lost consciousness for days and as my BP kept rising.“I did not see my baby until two weeks. Despite the emergency surgery, my BP did not come down. Normally it should be falling gradually but mine kept rising. The doctors were worried, I was in the ICU for seven days and was just drifting in and out of consciousness,” as my husband briefed me. I was later told I had a minor stroke which by the grace of God, I have recovered from. Surprisingly, two years after, I am still battling with  hypertension.  The most shocking aspect is that untill I was six weeks into my pregnancy, I was very fine. Another victim, Mrs Chiamaka Ukeghu ( not real names), a patient who is presently on bed rest at the ante-natal section in one of the  general hospitals in Abuja told LEADERSHIP Friday  that realising she was pregnant seven years after marriage, she immediately  went from her happiest moment to her scariest. Narrating her ordeal, Mrs Ukeghu explained that she tried unsuccessfully  to conceive for six years , a sad development which almost pushed her out of her matrimonial home due to pressure from her in-laws but  finally got pregnant through in-vitro fertilisation (IVF). She   lamented that she never imagined the pregnancy would come with complications that is threatening to take her life. According to the expectant mother, “I was looking forward to my pregnancy and having photo-shoots of my baby bumps but unfortunately,  am demoralised and gripped with fear.” While explaining that the complications started 24 weeks  into her pregnancy, “ Mrs Ukeghu said aside from the normal morning sickness in the first trimester, i was doing well until two weeks ago” “When I began feeling dizziness in my head, my doctor gradually increased my sleeping medication until he could no longer, in order not to harm my unborn baby . That was when we knew there was a life threatening  problem. “Meanwhile, I was registered for ante-natal from the onset of the pregnancy because I got pregnant when I was around 37 years.” The consultant handling my case has consistently told me that it’s that early registration at the clinic that has  saved my life. LEADERSHIP Friday further learnt that If  an expectant mother  is diagnosed with preeclampsia too early in pregnancy to deliver that baby, both the woman and her doctor will face a daunting task. This they say is because the innocent baby needs more time to mature, but you need to avoid putting yourself or your baby at risk of serious complications. Former vice president, Association of Resident Doctors , Federal Capital Territory (ARD/FCT), who is presently with  Nyanya General Hospital , Dr Sunday Kinsley Azugo explained that preeclampsia sometimes develops without any symptoms. While stating  that in some cases,  high blood pressure may develop slowly, or it may have a sudden onset, Dr Kinsley Azugo cautioned that  monitoring blood pressure is an important part of prenatal care because the first sign of preeclampsia is commonly a rise in blood pressure. He added that blood pressure that exceeds 140/90 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) or greater — documented on two occasions, at least four hours apart — is abnormal. According to Dr Azugo, other signs and symptoms of preeclampsia may include ; excess protein in urine (proteinuria) or additional signs of kidney problems as well as severe headaches. He listed changes in vision, including temporary loss of vision, blurred vision or light sensitivity as well as upper abdominal pain, ( which occurs commonly) under an expectant mother’s ribs on the right side. Other symptoms highlighted by the medical personnel are  nausea or vomiting, decreased urine output, decreased levels of platelets in the blood (thrombocytopenial) , impaired liver function, shortness of breath, caused by fluid in your lungs. Among the symptoms also include, sudden weight gain and swelling (edema) — particularly in the face and hands which may occur with preeclampsia. He however added that these latest symptoms , also occur in many normal pregnancies, so they’re not considered reliable signs of preeclampsia. The doctor who advised pregnant women to ensure prenatal visits so that their care provider can monitor their blood pressure advised expectant mothers to see their doctors immediately or go to an emergency room if they  have severe headaches, blurred vision or other visual disturbance, severe pain in the abdomen, or severe shortness of breath. While explaining that headaches, nausea, and aches and pains are common pregnancy complaints, he stressed that it’s difficult to know when new symptoms are simply part of being pregnant and when they may indicate a serious problem — especially if “it’s your first pregnancy. If you’re concerned about your symptoms, contact your doctor. Speaking to LEADERSHIP Friday on the exact cause of preeclampsia , Dr Maureen Ekpedeme of Godsgrace Maternity  said it involves several factors. She said ,  it begins in the placenta — the organ that nourishes the fetus throughout pregnancy. Early in pregnancy, new blood vessels develop and evolve to efficiently send blood to the placenta. In her words, “In women with preeclampsia, their blood vessels don’t seem to develop or function properly. They’re narrower than normal blood vessels and react differently to hormonal signaling, which limits the amount of blood that can flow through them. Dr Ekpedeme further explained that the causes of this abnormal development may include  family history of chronic hypertension. She said, “ If you already have chronic hypertension, you have a higher risk of developing preeclampsia. “ Again, with first pregnancy, the risk of developing preeclampsia is highest during your first pregnancy. Other factors include new paternity. Each pregnancy with a new partner increases the risk of preeclampsia more than does a second or third pregnancy with the same partner. She said, “Age: The risk of preeclampsia is higher for very young pregnant women as well as pregnant women older than 40 . Another very important factor is race. Black women have a higher risk of developing preeclampsia than women of other race. Obesity: Dr Ekpedeme said the risk of preeclampsia is higher if you’re obesed. She also explained that expectant mothers with multiple pregnancy   (in women who are carrying twins, triplets or other multiples) are more commonly victims of preeclampsia. Very importantly , Dr Ekpedeme revealed that interval between pregnancies, that is, having babies less than two years or more than 10 years apart leads to a higher risk of preeclampsi. A retired matron, with the Cross River State Ministry of Health, Mrs Isu Esebonu Ebei on her part stated that having certain conditions before you become pregnant — such as chronic high blood pressure, migraines, type 1 or type 2 diabetes, kidney disease, a tendency to develop blood clots, or lupus — increases  risk of preeclampsia. The retired matron  hinted also that a woman  risk of preeclampsia is increased if the unborn baby was conceived with in vitro fertilisatioin as they are likely to have twins, triplets or other multiples Doctor Hassan Abdullahi of Bills Clinic who spoke on complications of preeclampsia said. “Preeclampsia may require induced labor and delivery. “It leaves the doctors with the option of delivery by cesarean (C-section) if there are clinical or obstetric conditions that require a speedy delivery. Otherwise, your doctor may recommend a scheduled vaginal delivery. Your obstetric provider will talk with you about what type of delivery is right for your condition. On how it affects fetal growth restriction, Doctor Abdullahi said ,” Preeclampsia affects the arteries carrying blood to the placenta. If the placenta doesn’t get enough blood, your baby may receive inadequate blood and oxygen and fewer nutrients. This can lead to slow growth known as fetal growth restriction, low birth weight or preterm birth. He said another way it can affect pregnancy is through preterm birth. “If you have preeclampsia with severe features, you may need to be delivered early, to save the life of you and your baby. Prematurity can lead to breathing and other problems for your baby. Your health care provider will help you understand when is the ideal time for your delivery. The most dangerous effect according to him is Placental abruption.”  Preeclampsia increases your risk of placental abruption, a condition in which the placenta separates from the inner wall of your uterus before delivery. Severe abruption can cause heavy bleeding, which can be life-threatening for both the expectant mother and her unborn  baby. 