The British High Commission in Nigeria has commended LEADERSHIP Newspapers for outstanding reportage and promised to open its doors for partnership with the national daily. The overture was made when the organisation’s head of Communications and Public Relations, in Abuja, Ivy Clem, led other senior officials of the High Commission on a courtesy visit to the LEADERSHIP Group Limited office in Lagos. Other member of staff on the entourage were the political adviser, Wale Adebajo, Press and Public Affairs officer, Ndidiamaka Eze, Chevening Programme and Communications officer, Opeyemi Ojo, from the British Deputy High Commission Lagos, and the campaign support officer for the Africa campaign hub, Elges Rigby-Zeghlache. In her address, Clem expressed appreciation to the editors, general manager and others in different beats for their efforts and roles in pushing a narrative that tells the Nigerian and African story perfectly, saying that the UK offices in Nigeria were opened to share information needed for better reportage. She said that part of its partnership with LEADERSHIP would help to facilitate scholarship programmes for Nigerian’s brightest minds to study in the United Kingdom (UK) including the Chevening programmes and to tackle the issue of climate change in Nigeria and Africa. While dwelling on the devastating effects of climate change, Opeyemi Ojo said that “we can’t emphasis enough the importance of doing more reports about climate change because Nigerians are not very aware of the dangers even though we are feeling it already. Looking at the Nigeria demography with the economic situation, health system, Nigeria is not one of the top 10 producers of carbon emissions but one of the top 10 countries that will suffer from the effect of its climate change. There are no facilities in Nigeria to help us convert the effect of climate change and as such we are going to suffer for it. “We will be having a couple of events for NGOs, business people, for government organisations, for the media to have discussions about how we can sensitise the people about climate change. Achieving this will be through partnership, where we intend to also involve and focus more on young aspiring Nigerians and Africans. That is the key priority,” she said. The general manager, Southern Operations of LEADERSHIP Group Limited, Abdulwasiu Kehinde, who received the team alongside the business editor, Chima Akwaja and news editor for South-West Operations, George Okojie said that the media organisation was opened to such partnership. Kehinde said that “it is a good way to go as changing the narratives is a great deal and more dignifying.”