The chairman of Bitek Construction and Energetics limited, Mr Ben Gbade Ojo, has disclosed that Bitek Wall Block, Russian system of affordable housing technology, would certainly address Nigeria’s escalating housing deficit. This is even as he disclosed that using the technology, the firm would build about 22 million high quality affordable housing units in Abuja and the 36 states of Nigeria within 10 years, thereby eliminating the housing shortfall. Ojo, who stated this in Abuja while briefing newsmen on the technology, urged the federal government to tackle Nigeria’s growing housing deficit by launching a ‘Housing for all by 2030’ programme using the Bitek wall block technology. The chairman regretted that Nigerian towns and cities have continued to degenerate into slums, while millions of Nigerians grappled with difficulties in building their own homes, assuring that the technology would boost home-ownership among Nigerians and turn the escalating slums into modern towns and cities within a short time. According to him, “The high cost of building in Nigeria has been the major cause of the mounting housing deficit experienced in Nigeria. Incidentally, this affordability issue also confronts public and private organisations which continuously grapple with the problem of building office complexes, hospitals, educational institutions, modern markets and other vital buildings necessary for individual and societal well-being and development.” Ojo lamented that one of the root causes of housing difficulties in Nigeria since independence has been the over-reliance on cement and sandcrete blocks (block and mortar) in building construction. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for opening up Nigeria to Foreign Direct Investment (FDIs) especially in boosting the relations between Nigeria and Russia, adding that the technology was introduced in Nigeria as a result of the deepening ties between the two countries, which he described as the outcome of the President’s visit to Russia. He enjoined local, state and federal governments to harness the opportunities provided by the Russian building technology and launch a massive housing development that would eliminate the 22 million housing deficit bedeviling Nigeria. Ojo maintained that Nigeria and Russia partnered to bring the world-class affordable housing technology to Nigeria through Bitek construction & energetics limited in order to make high quality affordable housing delivery a dream come through in Nigeria. He suggested that the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) should be recapitalised to enable subscribers who are contributing to the National Housing Fund (NHF) access the houses when built. Ojo hinted that the technology components contain special clay materials that are abundantly available in Nigeria, saying that the company would build producing plant in Nigeria for quick assembling of the technology. He said that it would take a maximum of 30 days to build a 3-bedroom bungalow at the cost of $10, 000, adding that the realty firm would partner with states, federal government agencies, labour unions and cooperative societies for the deployment of the technology. Responding, consultant to Bitek, Dr Valentine Boyko said that houses built with the technology can last for 100 years in Russia due to increase and decrease in temperature but could last up to 300 years in Nigeria. Boyko who is a Russian asserted that the technology would incorporate raw materials that is in abundance in Nigeria which is clay, adding that aside Russia, that Nigeria would be the next country in the world where the technology would be used. He pointed out that the company would offer a 40 percent discount than the conventional house when fully built, saying that the technology is eco-friendly and can stand tough weather conditions. The consultant disclosed that it is fire, water and water proof, with minimal wastage and low cost of construction and maintenance. 