Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory, Dr Ramatu Aliyu, says no fewer than 976,003 eligible children would be immunized with potent oral polio vaccine in the First Round 2020 National Immunization Plus Days (NIPDs) in the territory. Aliyu stated this at the inauguration of the 2020 National Immunization Plus Days (NIPDs) in Dutse Makaranta in Bwari Area Council of the FCT, on Friday. She said that the exercise was part of the strategies aimed at vaccinating children against poliomyelitis. The minister also revealed that Nigeria would in the next few months achieve the Africa regional certification as a polio free nation. Aliyu said that the FCT, which had been polio free for over six years, should not be seen as creating an environment for the transmission of the wild polo virus in the country. Aliyu assured that the FCT Administration was committed to the course and had ensured adequate support to the programme so that good quality implementation of the exercise was carried out in the FCT. She added that in the last National Immunisation Plus Days, FCT had a monitoring coverage of 97 per cent, which was above the minimum acceptable 90 per cent coverage. “As you are aware, Nigeria, in the next few months will achieve the Africa regional certification as a polio free nation and the FCT, which has been polio free for over six years, should not be seen as creating an environment for the transmission of the wild polo virus in the country. “FCT is expected to immunise 976,003 eligible children with potent Oral Polio vaccine using 1,631 teams. ” I, therefore, wish to reassure you that the FCT Administration is committed to this course and has ensured adequate support to the programme so that good quality Implementation of the exercise is carried out in the FCT,” she said. The minister, however, warned the task force that its activities are being monitored by partner and donor agencies, the National Polio Emergency Operation Centre of the NPHCDA as well as the international community. Aliyu urged that the commitments and actions of the task force should be result driven. She also enjoined the chairmen of the six Area Councils and traditional leaders to take up the challenge and be part of the Polio end game. The minister equally urged stakeholders to be personally involved in support of polio eradication in their various area councils and communities in the country. In his remarks, Chairman, Gwagwalada Area Council, Adamu Danze, who spoke on behalf of other council bosses, commended the administration for taking proactive steps in the immunisation of eligible children in the territory. Danze, who assured the minister that area council authorities would support the exercise by paying their counterpart funds, called on mothers to support the exercise by making their children available for immunization. (NAN) 