Stakeholders in the midstream sub sector of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry are eagerly waiting to see a major transformation happen in the transportation space as government prepares to sign development agreement with a Chinese lender for the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK), gas pipeline project. CHIKA IZUORA writes Natural gas transportation is more capital intensive than oil or coal shipping since the fuel has a lower density and therefore a lower energy content per volume unit, while prices between different geographic locations may also differ substantially. Another area hampering the development of local solutions is that break-even for pipeline and large-scale Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) transportation is typically achieved at about 3,000 km. This is why lenders and investor may be harder to convince on the prospects of domestic and regional markets for Africa’s gas such as via small scale LNG projects for local markets. Liquefaction projects are likely to take up to 30 per cent of sunk costs along the LNG supply chain and would normally require investments in much more specific infrastructure than regasification facilities. In some countries however, the commercial decisions may be directly informed by government policy and regulation where gas producers are obliged to supply a portion of production to domestic markets. Investing in Africa’s gas sector is not for the marginal player, and since many project time leads will probably outlive current global financial and economic conditions, investors have to take a long-term view, given the detailed contractual structures and stakeholder agreements involved. Except oil majors funding projects from their balance sheet, the bulk of the financing requirement for gas infrastructure is likely to be met by debt financing. This could come in the form of hybrid financing structures supported by multilateral lenders, export credit agencies, private investors, locally syndicated bank lending, and low-interest Development finance Institutions or even Chinese financing, could combine to offer companies longer tenors and better terms, while underwriting country risks for investors. One such project, is the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK), gas pipeline project. On completion of the 614 kilometer Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) natural gas pipeline, new gas-to-power plants will push power generation capacity to more than 10,000 Megawatts. Nigeria is currently struggling with power output, generating less than 7,000MW. Three new captive gas-fired plants, to be located in Abuja, Kaduna and Kano, are expected to deliver 3,600MW of power. The pipeline will also supply two billion cubic feet per day of gas, in the short term to domestic customers, “which is quite significant,” according to Mele Kyari, group managing director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Stakeholders are expected to close a $2.5 billion financing agreement with Chinese lenders by the start of the second quarter of 2020 to fund the gas pipeline project after months of holding talks with China on financing a project seen as being central to expanding gas output in the country. Nigeria has 202 trillion cubic feet of proven gas reserves and an additional 600 trillion of unproven potential resources. Despite having the largest gas reserves in Africa, only 25 per cent of these reserves are currently productive. Hopefully, by March the project will witness physical construction of the pipeline, going by Kyari. Construction of the pipeline will begin in February, or at the latest by March, after financing for AKK is secured, according to kyari. Developed by NNPC, AKK forms phase one of the Trans-Nigeria Gas Pipeline (TNGP) project, which is scheduled for inauguration in 2020. The TNGP project itself is part of the Trans-Sahara Gas Pipeline System that will ultimately link Southern Nigeria with customers in Europe. The AKK pipeline project, which is being implemented using a build and transfer (BT) public-private partnership (PPP) model, is expected to transport 3.5 billion feet of dehydrated wet gas from multiple projects in the southern part of the country. Nigeria had earlier secured 15 per cent international owner financing of $430 million and is expecting to close the remaining 85 per cent financing, amounting to $2.5 billion by the second quarter of 2020, according to Kyari. “We have got every condition required sorted out including the sovereign guarantee for us to go forward. As a matter of fact, we are moving to site in February at the latest and by March we will physically start constructing the pipeline. We have secured the financing both in terms of equity contribution and the clear indication that we will have 85pc financing from the Chinese. That is sorted out,” he said. This financing deal takes Chinese investment in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry to nearly $20 billion according to figures from NNPC. Chinese investment, mostly from China National Offshore Oil Corporation (Cnooc), rose to $16 billion last year, and government is seeking a separate $3 billion to expand crude production to 3mn bl/d by 2023. During the last decade, financing from China has helped Nigeria build a 186km rail line between Abuja and Kaduna, with another line between Lagos and the northern city of Kano under construction. China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation is also working on new international terminals for Nigeria’s four largest airports. Despite domestic apprehension, Chinese investors say they will invest more in a country “short of infrastructure in terms of power and other infrastructure items that are related to oil and gas,” according to Kyari, if conditions allow. Minister of state for petroleum resources, Timipre Sylva has declared 2020 the year of gas for Nigeria and the AKK actualisation is key to the declaration. Undoubtedly, natural gas has the enormous potential to diversify and grow the Nigerian economy, power its industries and homes, produce ever-so-lacking wealth, create jobs, develop associated industries in the petrochemical sector, raise people out of poverty, the list goes on. Sylva’s demonstrated intent could perhaps become the most relevant political action anyone has taken in Nigeria in years and could change the country forever; and yet, the work ahead is so vast, the people can only hope he has the strength to pull it off, according to NJ Ayuk the executive chairman of the African Energy Chamber. Ayuk observed that flaring issue in Nigeria is tremendous. Every year, two million tonnes of LPG are flared, instead of being used as a source of power or feedstock. That means millions of dollars literally going up in smoke. Nigeria’s zero-flaring programme has been on-going for years, and yet, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has just released results that indicate that gas flaring has been consistently increasing over time. More specifically, “a total of 276.04 billion cubic feet (bcf) of natural gas was flared from Nigeria’s oil fields between September 2018 and September 2019.” Further, NNPC stated that “the volume of gas flared within this period was more than what was supplied to power generation companies for electricity production which was 275.31bcf”. This is taking place in a country where 45 per cent of the population does not have access to electricity, besides the extremely detrimental effect that has on businesses ability to compete and the extraordinary environmental damage that represents.  