Airlines are suspending flights to China in the wake of the new coronavirus outbreak. Below are details (in alphabetical order): AIRLINES THAT HAVE CANCELLED ALL CHINA FLIGHTS -American Airlines – extends suspension of China and Hong Kong flights through April 24 from March 27 earlier -Air France – Said on Feb.6 it would suspend flights to and from mainland China for much of March -Air Seoul – The South Korean budget carrier suspended China flights from Jan. 28 until further notice. -Air Tanzania – Tanzania’s state-owned carrier, which had planned to begin charter flights to China in February, postponed its maiden flights. -Air Mauritius – Suspended all flights to China and Hong Kong -Austrian Airlines – until end-February. -British Airways – Jan. 29-March 31. -Delta Airlines – Feb. 2-April 30 -Egyptair – Feb. 1 until further notice. -El Al Israel Airlines – Said on Feb. 12 it would suspend its Hong Kong flights until March 20 and reduce its daily flights to Bangkok. It suspended flights to Beijing from Jan. 30 to March 25 following a health ministry directive. -Iberia Airlines – The Spanish carrier extended its suspension of flights from Madrid to Shanghai, its only route, from Feb. 29 until the end of April. -JejuAir Co Ltd – Korean airline to suspend all China routes starting March 1 -Kenya Airways – Jan. 31 until further notice. -KLM – Will extend its ban up to March 15 -Lion Air – All of February. -LOT – Extends flight suspension until March 28 -Oman and Saudia, Saudi Arabia’s state airline, both suspended flights on Feb. 2 until further notice. -Qatar Airways – Feb. 1 until further notice. -Rwandair – Jan. 31 until further notice. -Scoot, Singapore Airlines’ low-cost carrier – Feb. 8 until further notice. -United Airlines – Feb. 5-April 23. Service to Hong Kong suspended Feb. 8-April 23. -Vietjet and Vietnam Airlines – Suspended flights to the mainland as well as Hong Kong and Macau Feb. 1-April 30, in line with its aviation authority’s directive. AIRLINES THAT HAVE CANCELLED SOME CHINA FLIGHTS/ROUTES -Air Canada – Extended the suspension of its flights to Beijing and Shanghai until March 27. It also suspended its Toronto to Hong Kong flights from March 1 to March 27, but its Vancouver to Hong Kong route remains active. [bit.ly/39zgmI0] -Air China – Said on Feb. 12 it will cancel flights to Athens, Greece, from Feb. 17 to March 18 -Air China – State carrier said on Feb. 9 it will “adjust” flights between China and the United States. -Air New Zealand – Suspended Auckland-Shanghai service Feb. 9-March 29. Reduced capacity on Shanghai route throughout April and Hong Kong route throughout April and May. -ANA Holdings – Suspended routes including Shanghai and Hong Kong from Feb. 10 until further notice.