In a bid to rid the industry of quackery, the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN) said it has file legal charges against erring marketing professionals who failed to get the Institute’s accreditation and registration to practice marketing in compliance with provisions of the marketing Act 2003. The Institute said this is in line with provisions of the 2003 enabling Act which empowers it to exercise full control and regulation of practice of the marketing profession in Nigeria. President of the Institute, Tony Agenmonmen, while speaking during the formal induction ceremony of the institute’s new Fellows in Lagos, said the Institute has run out of patience with the erring marketers He said, “the first set of the erring marketers would be having their dates formally in court during the course of the week as the charges against them have already been filed in court”. “In the past few years, we have preached the need for voluntary compliance with the requirement of the law for all marketing practitioners to be accredited and registered with the Institute. I am happy to report that many practitioners have responded.” He continued: “Unfortunately, even with our patience and persuasion, some practitioners have refused to comply with the requirement of the law. Therefore, the first set of them will be having their date in court from this week as the charges against them have already been filed.” Administering the oath on the newly admitted Fellows of the institute, the President enjoined them to uphold strictly the provisions of the NIMN Act 25 of 2003 and jealously guard its accurate implementation at all times, and ensure that any personal and collective grievances arising in the course of their membership of the institute shall be resolved through civil recourse to appropriate provisions of the Act. LEADERSHIP reports that at least, no fewer than seventy distinguished professionals of marketing drawn from across various public and private sector organisations, including, financial sector, manufacturing, maritime, oil and gas industry among others were admitted formerly to the glamorous fellowship cadre of the foremost Nigerian marketing institute. The Institute’s boss said that with the belief that NIMN has a strong role to play in championing the application of marketing tenets and principles to governance, the institute had continued to engage the executive and the legislative arms of government with the hope that cooperation in that direction would be of immense benefit to the country and its people. While highlighting the various achievements of the marketing institute under his leadership, he pointed out that over the past few years the brand equity of NIMN had been consistently re-engineered. He said: “Like the mythical phoenix, the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria is steadily on the rise. These are the early days, but I can report that today, you have an institute that you can be proud of. Are we there yet? No. But surely and certainly, we have decided to move. “There is no greater testimony to that fact than the record number of marketing professionals being inducted as Fellows of the institute tonight, well over 70 qualified and some of the leading lights in the marketing community.” Also speaking at the event, the guest speaker, Sheni Adetu, former Managing Director of Guinness Nigeria Plc and Founder /CEO, Algorithm Media Limited admonished marketing professionals in the country on the need to imbibe the emerging trends of the present digital technology while showing exemplary leadership in their day to day dealings to be successful in their various professional endeavour.