As Nigeria continues its quest to move the nation from depending solely on oil, the federal government has revealed its resolve to transform the nation’s economy using emerging digital technologies. The minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami made this known while addressing delegates at the Seventh Study Group 13 (SG13) Regional Workshop for Africa, with the theme “Standardisation of future networks towards building a better-connected Africa” organised by International Telecommunications Union (ITU) in Abuja. He disclosed the ministry’s intention to focus on how to transform the Nigerian economy using emerging digital technologies, even as he urged Nigerians to embrace a digital economy culture that would impact positively on the lives of the people. The minister urged African countries to develop standards for future networks that would support digital economy. “The new focus is on how to use new and emerging digital technologies to transform the socio-economic life and activities of the country. Also, citizens should embrace a digital economy culture that would impact positively on the lives of the people,” Pantami said.    “It is important that Africa positions itself properly in order to key into the process of developing appropriate standards for future and Next Generation digital Networks that support a digital economy.’’ He thanked ITU for its various efforts  at improving telecommunications standards globally. “As a Member State of ITU, Nigeria appreciates the excellent work of the ITU through its three sectors namely the Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R), Standardisation Sector (ITU-T) and Development Sector (ITU-D). “The Standardisation Sector (ITU-T) through its study Groups and World Telecommunication Standardisation Assembly (WTSA) uses experts from around the world to prepare, deliberate and develop international standards known as ITU-T Recommendations. “They act as defining elements in the global infrastructure of information and communication technologies (ICTs). “The professionals here are aware that Standards are critical to the interoperability of ICTs and the vices are speaking the same language,” Pantami said. Earlier, the executive vice chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) Prof Umar Danbatta, said that the future role in information of this type of network was non-negotiable. The NCC helmsman described the study as the new frontier, which comes with great value and potentials for humanity.