The members of the organised private sector (OPS)  in the country said the implementation of the new 7.5 per cent Value Added Tax (VAT) by the the federal government would push up the operating cost of underwriting companies as well as other business outfits in the country. With the 2020 Finance Act passed into law by the national assembly and accented to by President Muhammadu Buhari, VAT is to be charged at 7.5 per cent instead of the old five per cent on every goods and services purchased in a move to increase government revenue through tax. The Act took effect on February 1, 2020. LEADERSHIP findings showed that companies selling products or rendering services are now factoring this increase in the rates they charge. Market analysts said this development would reduce the disposable income of Nigerians, thereby, limiting the ability of people to pay for certain services. Moreover, investigation revealed that companies across the country face increased operating expenses with the new VAT rate. Most companies, according to findings, are already renovating their office premises, replacing old appliances and office fittings with new ones, while some are purchasing new technologies to serve their customers better. And with implementation of the new 7.5 per cent VAT rate commencing, expenses have soared as they have to pay increased VAT on every purchase. Most office purchases that might suffer this increase include: AC, Plasma TV, information technologies software, computers, purchase of new official vehicles, furniture, among others. Speaking on this development in an interview with LEADERSHIP Sunday, the director-general of Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf, said, “The bill has a number of favourable provisions for small and medium enterprises, however, the VAT increase would impact adversely on businesses from cost pressures perspective. “Margins would be affected, depending on the extent to which additional costs could be passed to consumers. The worry is that we are operating in a high cost environment. We also have to worry about the provision on minimum tax.” On his part, the director-general, Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), Dr. Timothy Olawale, said the government should not see the private sector as a “cash cow” in its drive to raise revenue, maintaining that, the new increment of 7.5 per cent in VAT would do more harm to the already burdened private sector, and further impoverish the people that President Buhari promised to take out of poverty. Similarly, the managing director/CEO, Anchor Insurance Company Limited, Mr. Ebose Augustine said, though, the 2020 Finance Act reduced and cancelled some controversial taxes insurance companies were earlier subjected to, “For every purchase made, you have to pay the 7.5 VAT. “This means additional financial responsibility for companies, hence, increasing the operating cost of firms. For instance, if I am purchasing a new technology, office fittings such as AC, Plasma TV, computer, among others, I will have to pay more VAT. It’s a new responsibility that each company will now need to budget for and bear, “he pointed out. He said, though, the extra 2.5 per cent increase  in the VAT rate might look insignificant, it was indeed huge, because it translates to 50 per cent hike, which demands extra financial commitment. However, a public affairs analyst, Jide Ojo, applauded the coming of the law and expects that increased revenue from the VAT and other amended tax laws would be judiciously used to improve on the national infrastructure. Also, the head of research, FSL Securities, Victor Chiazor, said the bill would set the tone for Nigeria’s fiscal policy this year, as it covers quite a number of critical areas, especially the increment in government revenue. He, however, pointed out that the increase in VAT is expected to reduce consumers’ disposable income, which may slightly affect their ability to invest in the capital market. Speaking during a media parley at the company’s head office in Ikeja, Lagos recently, the chief financial officer, LASACO Assurance Plc, Mr. Akinwale Sofile, said, Section 15 of the former Income Tax Act was not favourable to the insurance industry, adding that, operators have been fighting to review the Act since 2007 but to no avail. But with the 2020 Finance Bill, that has been taken care of, he said. According to him, “Another aspect of the Finance Bill which is contentious is the issue of VAT. The increase in VAT to 7.5 per cent has its implication on our business. Insurance companies pay VAT on behalf of the brokers, which was a result of the market agreement underwriters have with brokers. “Premium is not vatable, but the commission earned by brokers is vatable. But unfortunately in thi environment, since brokers deduct their commission before paying the insurance industry, insurers are the ones paying the VAT. So, it means we are paying more which will also affect our bottom line. Aside this, the bill has lessen the tax burden of insurance sector,” he said. Meanwhile, the acting commissioner for insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas, while speaking at the 2020 NAICOM Seminar for insurance journalists in Kano, Kano State recently, applauded the move, saying, the industry would no doubt, be better for it. He applauded the federal government for initiating the finance bill which addresses some of the tax burden being faced by insurers. This, he said, has ensured that the industry do not go through the rigour of the NASS to change some of the tax laws that are inimical to the growth of insurance industry. Responding to the concern that the bill increases the tax burden being faced by Nigerians, he said, “The world over, tax is what drives government operation. The developed countries we all run to, have more tax burden than Nigeria, so, ours is not an isolated case. “The only advice is that government should ensure that taxes paid by Nigerians are judiciously used to fix infrastructure deficits and provide the needed operating environment for business survival.” A senior partner at PwC, Taiwo Oyedele, said the signing of the Finance Bill into law came with provisions designed to promote fiscal equity, support MSMEs and modernise the tax system. “Given that the bill has just been signed into law, it is important to allow some time before it comes into effect to ensure readiness both on the part of the tax authorities and the taxpayers. Also, there should be a nationwide sensitisation to create awareness for affected stakeholders while seeking feedback on areas for future amendments as implementation takes hold,” he said. Accordingly, the chief executive officer, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Oscar Onyema, said, market sentiments would be buoyed by a steady and stable recovery in the domestic economy, alongside continued sustainability in monetary policy, noting that, that, the Act and the implementation of the 2020 budget would have a positive impact on companies’ earnings and consumer spending. Dr. Titilayo Fowokan of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN) was not optimistic about the full realisation of expectations from the enforcement of the new law, citing current economic situations, challenges facing businesses, and government’s unending cases of poor accountability and huge cost of governance, as challenges that may bedevil implementation. “Getting funds from the law is one thing, but transparency and accountability in the management is another. This has remained the crux at public fora in recent times. Transparency in the handling of public funds will boost confidence and compliance by citizens,” she said. Lead director of Centre for Social Justice, Eze Onyekpere, said, “In all developed and developing countries, government is funded by taxation, which should be the obligation of every citizen. In the case of Nigeria, oil revenue and its mismanagement led governments in the past to ignore taxation as a major source of revenue. “It is, therefore, beholden on citizens to pay tax, while demanding increased transparency and accountability from the federal, state and local governments. The new tax regime should embolden citizens to fight against fiscal impunity.” Vice-president, Yemi Osinbajo, had earlier said, the Finance Act 2020 would stimulate the Nigerian economy and put the country on the path of geometric economic growth. He added that the bill was aimed at shoring up revenue for all levels of government to meet up with their expenditure, in addition to supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the country. He said that the 2020 budget of N10.6 trillion has a deficit of N2.2 trillion, adding that, ‘so it is clear that we are running a fairly large deficit.’ Osinbajo said, though there was an outcry over the increment of the Value Added Tax (VAT) from 5 per cent to 7.5 per cent, this was very low when compared to other African countries. According to him, “Ghana has 12.5 per cent; Cameroun has 19.25 per cent; Mexico with 16 per cent; South Africa at 15 per cent and Egypt at 14 per cent. To make things easier for the common man, we have exempted 16 classes of food items, tampons, sanitary towels, and tuition fees from nursery to tertiary. Also, before the Finance Act, many companies operating in the country without physical presence escaped taxation. “Most digital companies made significant revenue from e-commerce, online advertising and the likes, but were not taxed. But now, once you have significant economic presence in Nigeria, but reside anywhere around the world, you are eligible to pay tax,” he added.