Funke Adeoye is a Nigerian legal practitioner who is also a social justice advocate. In this interview with HENRY TYOHEMBA, the founder of “Hope Behind the Bars Africa Initiative,” spoke about the need to reform the justice sector, among other critical issues. Can you tell us what social justice entails? Social Justice in a society is where justice is achieved in every aspect of the society rather than just the administration of law. By social justice we are looking at the issues around education, religious tolerance, issues around politics, government among others and most of the people who get to suffer social injustice are people that are less privileged people who on a normal day don’t have economic power. So in respect to the work I do is also social justice because the people who live behind bars are even living on the least side and as we mark social justice day, one of the things we have to look at is what Nelson Mandela said, that a nation is not best viewed based on how it treats top citizens but how it treats lower citizens. One of the indexes of measuring development is how much of social justice is being done. It is a very huge issue and I hope that even as we begin to work on other areas of economy, we begin to see the need to put social justice at the forefront. As an organization we are concerned with justice for people living in prison but beyond that we also have to look at people who cannot access education, people whose lives are being trampled upon.  How would you rate the social justice system in Nigeria as the country joined the world to commemorate World Social Justice Day recently? Nigeria still has a long way to go when it comes to social justice. Social Justice is related to human rights because we are talking of things like access to justice, access to livelihood, access to economy. Social Justice most at times relates to people that on a normal day do not have means. Do we have a social justice system in Nigeria? Do we have a social welfare system in Nigeria? It is not so effective in Nigeria why? Because we have some of these laws that allow for people to get social justice but they are not really implemented, so I think that we have a long way to go in Nigeria and one of the things we must begin to do is to call our government to order. We work with Accountability Lab and other organizations to demand that the government as much as possible live up to its expectation. We need to begin to pay forward for those of us who have little privilege. When I started this organization it wasn’t like I had everything but I saw the gap. I have been practicing for seven years and I realise that every other time I go to visit clients in prisons I see people who really don’t have any business in prison or maybe they don’t have money to access legal representation. So I just saw the need to start something. What we did was to begin to help people to see the need to offer pro-bono legal services. Yes, we have legal aids and all of that in Nigeria but it is not enough. We need to see social justice as something that we are all supposed to be part of.  One of the major issues affecting prisons in Nigeria today is the issue of overcrowding. As a social justice advocate, how best do you think this can be addressed? Overcrowding is a major issue in Nigerian prisons and it has so many issues around it. For instance, late last year we heard the news where five men in Ikoyi prison were electrocuted and the Comptroller of prison himself said the particular cell that is supposed to be for forty inmates, 150 inmates were staying there. These are some of the issues that come where there is overcrowding and that was one of the reasons why policy makers and NGOs decided to push for a new Correctional Service Act. Right now there is a new Correctional Service Act which allows for the Comptroller of prison to reject inmates but this Act has several laudable provisions. It allows prisons to reject inmates if the prison is overcrowded, it also created a custodian and non custodian system. So what it means is that there are some offences people will commit now and they will not be remanded while there are some offences they will be given probation, community service and others. Now, my point is this, new Correctional Service has a lot of provisions that is supposed to help address overcrowding but the question is how would this happen? Are the mechanisms in place to ensure implementation of these laws? So, what I’m trying to say is that the law was enacted in September and is just less than four or five months, what I think needs to be done is NGOs and other stakeholders need to begin to push for ways to ensure the implementation of this, and one of the core ways is for us to have a database of every prisoner. As long as there is no database you cannot know if this prison houses more than the number of inmates required. Another thing is to engage more pro bono services currently we have about 69.9 percent of people in prison who are awaiting trials while the rest are convicted in it. So how do we reduce the number of times somebody spent in prison as an awaiting trial is by getting defense lawyers, pro-bono lawyers to act. A criminal matter should not be running for years unending, a criminal matter should not be running for 12 or 13 years, no, especially when the person is in prison. So lawyers need to be on their feet, the Correctional Service needs to be on their feet and then a framework has to be put in place for implementation of Nigeria Correctional Service Act.  Tell us about your organization, Hope Behind Bars Africa Initiative? We are a volunteer driven non-profit organization working to ensure a safe, secure and peaceful society for all through reducing prisoners re-offending and by also connecting pro bono lawyers to indigent awaiting trial inmates. We also create solution for them to be properly reintegrated back to the society and we have been doing this now for less than two years. Our interventions are in Kuje prisons, Suleija, Keffi and Abia State prisons. So far so good we have been able to provide justice to over a thousand inmates. We also do a lot of work around death penalty. We believe that human rights is sacrosant and a human being has a right to it and especially, inmates facing capital offences. There is a need for us to stress more on the kind of representation they get. So last year I was one of the 15 African capital defenders invited by Cornell University to undergo an intensive training on representing alleged capital offenders. So, when we returned one of the things we did was to begin to share the knowledge and train Law Clinic students on ways they can adequately offer legal services to people facing death penalties, because if someone is facing death penalty and the person is not adequately represented it is going to lead to fatality. If a person is sentenced to five or twenty years in prison he still has the option to live. If a capital punishment is pronounced on somebody, that is a final thing. So, we want to ensure that people facing death penalty are adequately represented. Basically, at Hope Behind Bars we consider three things. The first one is access to justice intervention for indigents and marginalised inmates, the second is the death penalty project and the third is welfare and reintegration project which is necessary because every other time when we release people from court, of offence they committed or those they didn’t commit there is always an issue of what happens after? I had a client in 2019 who was charged for armed robbery, he was picked up by SARS for an offence he did not commit and then he spent six years in prison. When we represented him all we needed to do was to tell the court that the persecution was not deligent. We used section 351 of the administration of the Criminal Justice Act and that day the court discharged him, but after he was discharged there was an issue. He used to be a student of Kaduna State Technical school, so when he came back, there was nothing really for him to fall back on. So we saw the need to collaborate with other organisations to properly reintegrate these people back to society, empowering them with skills and then also ensuring that when they come out they don’t go back into crime.  What are the major challenges facing you in the pursuit of justice for the indigents and marginalised inmates in Nigeria? We have gotten a kind of relationship with welfare officers and they tell us about certain cases of people who are indigent and they can have access to phone. So we pick up these cases and we allow the inmates to know  that we are representing them, they even sign letters of instruction to us but by the time we get to court we find out that some other lawyer is coming to represent them. These are some of the challenges we face. Sometimes, we spend our money to go to different parts of the country and then by the time we get to court we realise that there is a lawyer, even if the officers tell us the person doesn’t have a lawyer. Another challenge we are facing is every time we go to prison we meet a lot of cases. At times we can interview 10 to 15 cases and because of funds we are only able to take 5 cases and because we are an NGO, we also find that the inmates always come with issues. For example, one of the set of people we represent are people living with disabilities in prison. We had the case of a woman when we met her she was living with disability. She could not talk, so the time when we visited her she will always write to us and understand what we are saying but could not talk. So we found out that at a point her health began to deteriorate so much that she even suffered stroke in prison. Now, as an NGO we are coming on the basis of providing legal aid to her but we cannot take her away from the fact that this person is not feeling fine. So my point is beyond legal representation, we are now concerned about the welfare, we have to start pushing for the inmates to get adequate medical care.  The issue of domestic violence has been prevalent in our society today. As a legal practitioner, how best do you think we can address it? The issue of domestic violence and public gender based violence is a serious one. Interestingly as an organization we have provided access to justice to several people and most of the women that we provide access to justice, the issues that made them go to prison is around domestic violence. We had a client sometime who was married to her husband for ten years and eventually, caught her husband with a woman and then she accosted the husband and then her husband beat her up. After some months, she realised that she was infected with HIV by the man and then she made an attempt on the man. And as of when we met her in prison it was a sad story. So we need to go back to the root cause of it, we need to begin to look at the mental health issues because most of our clients when we met with them we go with psychologists and try to check their mental status and you find out most at times some of these people are not in a good mental state. So the work I do I will always emphasise on the mental health of people even the mental health of the husband beating his wife. We need to begin to prioritize the mental health of Nigeria. I don’t think we can talk about Social Justice or domestic violence issues without looking at the victim and perpetrator. Now, for the victims we need to emphasize that people need to speak up. When we begin to see the circle of abuse even if it is one, the first thing you need to do is to run for your life because even if tomorrow, a man or woman who engaged in domestic violence is adjudged to be mentally unstable, if you don’t run for your life you will get killed. So it is important we begin to look at the mental health of people who are involved in situations like this. We also need more mentally conscious prisons in Nigeria. Several times I go to prison and when I’m interviewing an inmate I discover he is not okay. Prison is not supposed to be a place where people with mental issues should be kept they will not get help there.  Is there anything else you would like to say? I think that with respect to overcrowding in prisons, the criminal justice system is divided into three: we have the police, court and the prison. So we need to really push for reforms in prison because half of the people we have were in prison because some of the police in charge of their arrests did not do thorough investigations before getting them in. So this overcrowding we are talking about, a lot of people in prison are there for offences they did not commit. Some of them are there because they were just walking on the street. We had two clients in 2018 that were just playing ludo in front of an Army General’s house and then the police car came and picked them up and they were locked up for months. Such kind of scenerio leads to overcrowding. So the police needs to step up on their game. Every hand must be on deck, we as an organization work directly with Correctional Service because we believe that while there is reform in the police and other forms of criminal justice system, there are some people in prison who are already suffering for offences they did not commit. But then, while we do that work we are also urging that there should be a reform.