The governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, has decried the inability of Nigeria to conduct credible elections after several years of practising democracy. This is as the state government instituted a N100million empowerment programme for Wakirike women, for stoutly defending Rivers mandate during the 2019 general elections. Wike spoke yesterday at the Government House, Port Harcourt, during a solidarity visit by the leaders and people of Wakrike, Meof, Okrika and Ogu/Bolo local government areas of the state. He said: “It is unfortunate that up till now, we cannot conduct free and fair elections in Nigeria. It is unfortunate that the giant of Africa lacks the capacity to conduct credible elections.” While commending the Wakirike women for defending the Rivers mandate against the invading soldiers, Wike urged Rivers people to always ensure that their votes count during elections. The governor said, “At all times, continue to defend and protect the Rivers mandate.” He stated that out of the N100million meant for the empowerment programme for the courageous women of Wakirike ethnic nationality, N50million has been reserved for Okrika and N50million for Ogu/Bolo LGA. Wike commended Wakirike people for maintaining peace in the area, saying that his administration will fulfill key developmental pledges to them. The governor stated that he would extend electricity to Okrika local government area and work towards the construction of the Jetty at Isaka. He further noted that he would link Ogu and Wakama communities as he promised during his campaign, adding that the next phase of Okochiri internal roads would be completed by his administration. On the Okrika Grammar School, Wike urged the leaders of the area to write to the Anglican Church for them to release the school to the state government for total reconstruction. The governor reiterated his respect for traditional rulers, saying that they are under obligation to promote the culture of Rivers people. “We must always promote our tradition and culture.  I have respect for traditional rulers. All I say is that we should promote our own culture,” he said.