Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello has paid glowing tribute to the late former Justice of the Court of Appeal, Lagos Division, Justice Tom Shaibu Yakubu. Justice Tom, who hails from Ankpa Local Government Area of Kogi State, died recently at the age of 66. Bello, in his tribute to the late Justice, described him as an illustrious son of Kogi State who distinguished himself in the legal profession in the various capacities he had served. He said, “He was a man of deep learning and extraordinary insight who demonstrated humanness and high principles in the performance of his duties. “First as a Judge of the High Court and later as a Justice of the Court of Appeal, His Lordship distinguished himself as a fair and astute jurist with a reputation for honour, integrity, hardwork and modesty. “He contributed greatly to the development of the Law and to the administration of justice in Nigeria. Honorable Justice Tom Shaibu Yakubu was without doubt a devout Christian gentleman. “As co-founder of the Christian Law Students Fellowship of Nigeria (CLASFON) at the Nigerian Law school Lagos in 1979, His Lordship was instrumental to the salvation and spiritual growth of generations of law students and lawyers who have been impacted by the fellowship over the last few decades “His Lordship still had so much to offer but for his untimely passing. We are however glad that he left behind a legacy that will be long treasured by all who knew and loved him. “On behalf of the good people of Kogi State and myself, I offer heartfelt condolences to his wife, children, extended family, community and friends as well as colleagues at the Court of Appeal. May Almighty God comfort those left behind to mourn him and grant him eternal rest”. In his remarks, the Chief Judge of Kogi State, Justice Nasiru Ajani commended the governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello for standing with the Judiciary even in mourning period. Justice Ajana said the state government provided the finance for burial exercise and has directed the rehabilitation of Enjema road including provision of security to ease movement of mourners to and fro the deceased hometown. Late Justice Tom Yakubu was born June 12, 1953 in Enjema, Ankpa local government area of Kogi State. 