The Supreme Court has upheld its earlier sack of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governor-elect of Bayelsa State, Mr David Lyon and the deputy governor-elect, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. It described the request by the ruling APC to review its judgment which voided the participation of Lyon and Degi-Eremienyo in the governorship election as “vexatious, frivolous and an abuse of court process.” The apex court held that the suit filed on behalf of the APC, Lyon and Degi-Eremienyo, lacked merit and accordingly dismissed it. The court in its ruling yesterday in Abuja, said that its judgement on the matter was final. In the unanimous ruling delivered by Justice Amina Augie, the Supreme Court came down heavily on the lawyers to the applicants, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) and Chief Wole Olanipekun for filing the motions which the court described as regrettable and a deliberate desecration of the judiciary. Justice Augie said: “I feel like shedding tears that senior counsel in this case would ever bring this kind of frivolous applications during my life time.” She subsequently ordered Babalola and Olanipekun to pay the sum of N10 million each to each of the three respondents as fines. Justice Augie said that the fine was to be personally paid by the lawyers. The beneficiary respondents are Bayelsa State Governor, Duoye Diri, the deputy governor, Lawrence Ewhujapkor, and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Justice Augie, in her ruling held that by Order 8, Rule 16 of the Supreme Court, the court has no powers or authority to review any judgment delivered on merit safe for clerical error. “This court is not authorised and indeed lacked jurisdiction to review any judgment delivered on merit, moreso when the applicants have not pointed out any accidental error or slip in the judgment. There must be an end to every litigation. “It is settled that the decision of this court is final“, she said, adding that “this is final court and its decisions are final for all ages.” According to Justice Augie, it is only a legislation that can alter the decision of the apex court once a matter has been fully heard and an order made. “The two applications brought before us today lacked merit and constituted an abuse of this court and they are liable to dismissal and are hereby dismissed,“ the court held. The apex court had on February 13, 2020, barely 24 hours to the inauguration of Lyon and Degi-Eremienyo as governor and deputy governor of Bayelsa State, ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to withdraw the certificate of return issued them as winner of the November 16, 2019 governorship election. The action of the apex court was predicated on the grounds that the APC deputy governor-elect was not qualified to have participated in the polls on account of supplying false information to INEC to aid his qualification for the election. The apex court subsequently ordered that the party‘s candidates which came second in the election be sworn in as the duly elected governor and deputy governor of Bayelsa State. But not satisfied with the decision of the apex court, the APC, Lyon and Degi-Eremienyo, applied to the apex court for a review and an order setting aside its judgment that disqualified them from the November 16 poll. Lyon and the APC in their applications argued by Babalola and Olanipekun, respectively, prayed the court to review and set aside the judgment of February 13, 2020, which voided their participation in the November 16 governorship election on the grounds that the court made some mistakes in affirming the decision of the Federal High Court which disqualified them from participating in the election.  APC keeps mum, as PDP insists on reversal of Imo verdict The APC yesterday refrained from making remarks on the outcome of the Supreme Court judgement on the Bayelsa governorship election. APC national Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, had after the apex court pronouncements, sought to speak to anxious journalists at the party’s national secretariat. But two and a half hours after the expected briefing, the party made a U-turn to the disappointment of reporters who were at the venue. LEADERSHIP, however, noticed the secretariat staff discussing the matter in low tunes even as they hoped for a change in the party’s fortunes in the coming elections. No immediate reason was given for the sudden change of plans as officials approached, refused to speak. However, the PDP hailed the verdict of the apex court on Bayelsa State and restated its demand for a review of the judgement on the Imo State governorship election, where the Supreme Court sacked Emeka Ihedioha as governor. In a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP alleged that the APC is mounting pressure on the Supreme Court to restrain itself from reversing the flawed judgment on the Imo State governorship election despite the obvious mistakes in that verdict. The party, which hailed yesterday’s verdict of the Supreme Court on Bayelsa governorship election, noted that the elements and grounds for the demands by the PDP and majority of Nigerians for the reversal of Imo governorship election judgment were completely different from those of Bayelsa. The PDP explained that its demand on Imo is not in any way in contestation of the authority and finality of the Supreme Court but a patriotic effort to assist the apex court affirm its infallibility by correcting the inherent mistakes in the judgment which came as a result of misleading presentation to it by the APC. It said: “It is, therefore, instructive to note that the various election matters before the Supreme Court were brought on clearly distinctive grounds and each should be treated on its merit before the law.” The party said that the only reason the APC was pushing for a review of the Supreme Court’s valid and flawless judgment on the Bayelsa and Zamfara governorship elections was to cause confusion and blackmail the apex court from treating the Imo case on merit. It maintained that the grounds for the reversal of the Imo judgment were unambiguously constitutional and completely distinct from APC’s attempt to blackmail the court with their demands on the Bayelsa and Zamfara States governorship election. The PDP, therefore, urged the Supreme Court not to “succumb to the threats and blackmail by APC to push it to restrain itself from looking at the merit of the Imo case; correcting the mistakes and reversing the flawed judgment.”