Cross River State Governor, Sir Ben Ayade says the ongoing dualization of Tinapa/Odukpani Junction road will soon be completed. The 16.7 kilometre meter long road is a Federal Government, but Governor Ayade Commenced the dualisation late 2018 as part of his vision for Greater Calabar Development Project and to ease traffic in and out of the capital city. Ayade while speaking during the inspection of work on the road, Wednesday said construction has reached very advanced stages, readying for asphalting. The governor, who spoke through his special Adviser on Media, Mr. Christian Ita, said the road is the main artery into Calabar, the state capital. “Cross River State Government, under the leadership of His Excellency Sir Ben Ayade values the development of this particular road, which is the only access into Calabar. “It is because of this that we are expanding and dualising the road despite the state of our resources.” While giving assurances to the motorists plying the road that construction will be completed before the major raining season sets in, Ita said; “We are at the point where asphalting is commencing, so the road is almost ready. You know the governor promised that the road will be ready and motorable by April. We will that timeline.” Also Speaking, the Chairman of Infracross LTD, High Chief Eugene Iwuh Akeh, said the agency in charge of the execution of the project was satisfied with the level of work done so far. According to him, anyone that passed through the road few months ago will be astounded by the level of work achieved. “When His Excellency said we should dualize this road, there was a lot of skepticism. The reason is that when you have a big project the gestation period is a little bit large. “But you can see now that the job has come alive, we have gone beyond the level of whether there will be and there will not be because what you see speaks for itself.” On his part, the Director of Civil, Ministry of Works, Eng. Godwin Akeke said Contractors are working hard to utilize the dry season due to the coastal nature of Cross River State. He said the level of work done will enable commuters to enjoy the road at the promised date which is April, 2020. “I will say that the percentage completion is now at over 70%. We are here now doing the stone base, ready for Mc one on this and other sections. “It is our intention that before the next heavy rains from April, they should be open to traffic,” he said. Some commuters and other road users commended Governor Ayade for his vision to dualise the road. “We want to thank Our Governor, Professor Ben Ayade for doing this road for us. Before now, accidents and traffic snarls were a daily occurrence, particularly around this Pamol. But since the opening up of the road for dualisation, as a driver, I can see road from a far distance and there is no more traffic on the road.” 