The Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources (FMPR) in partnership with Department of Petroleum (DPR) will formally launch the National Gas Transportation Network Code on Monday, February 10, 2020. It will take place on the opening day of the third edition of Nigeria International Petroleum Summit taking place at the International Conference Centre (ICC) Abuja. The Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code which is critical to government’s objective in firming up the country’s domestic gas obligation as well as promoting export. The network code which will ensure that the wrong quality gas does not go into the pipeline in addition to guaranteeing gas pipeline integrity, open access to pipeline and common understanding on metering. “The review of the Network Code licensing framework and development of all its ancillary agreements have been firmed”, said DPR. The code will also provide a uniform platform in terms of guidelines for agreements between buyers and sellers which will ensure transparency and eliminate existing bottlenecks. It is a major policy thrust of government to unlocking the potentials of gas as a resource and revenue earner for Nigeria which President Buhari (as Minister of Petroleum Resources) and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva are very passionate about.  Immediately after the launch of the National Gas Transportation Network Code at NIPS, a panel session to be moderated by Saidu Mohammed will drill deeper the understanding of policy by stakeholders will follow suit. The panelists include; Abel Nsa DPR; Mrs Audrey Joe-Ezigbo, Nigerian Gas Association (NGA); Mrs Maryam Shehu, OPTS and Dr Salihu Jamari, managing director, Nigerian Gas Company (NGC). According to the DPR in its latest report, Nigeria’s natural gas reserves has been on the increase from 2013 and is projected to continue to grow at a conservative rate of about 1.0 per cent. It said the reserves volume of the operated deep-water acreages in Nigeria is about 21 per cent of the country’s total reserves of liquid hydrocarbons (7.746 billion barrels bls/37.002 billion barrels. Yet the acreages accounted for about 36.08 per cent of the Nation’s total production in 2018. 