The plan by federal government to link state capitals in Nigeria by rail has been trailed with mixed reactions. Despite paucity of funds, the government insists on going ahead with the project. In this report FIDELIS UGBOMEH examines efforts made so far, to actualise the plan as well as rehabilitate the existing narrow gauge railway line. In spite of concerns raised by Minister of Transportation Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi over the ability of China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) to meet the target set for completion of Lagos to Ibadan standard gauge railway line, there are speculations that work on the Ibadan to Kano standard gauge railway line, East-West Railway line, and Port- Harcourt to Maiduguri narrow gauge railway line may soon commence. Lagos-Ibadan Standard Gauge Already, work on Lagos-Ibadan has reached over 80 per cent completion with only few kilometers of tracks awaiting to be laid from Agege to Ebute-Metta Junction by China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC). When the minister visited Apapa for the second time in one week recently, he gave kudos to CCECC during the second visit for heeding to the advice to deploy more workers to site in order to accelerate linking Apapa port with standard gauge railway line. Amaechi noted that earth work has gone beyond Ijora railway station where concrete slabs were used to floor the ground preparatory to filling with sand and granite due to the low water level of Apapa. A new bridge has also been constructed at Costain so as to create enough headroom for the Standard gauge railway locomotive engines to pass underneath. This has become necessary because the former bridge did not have enough headroom to accommodate standard gauge locomotives.  The minister noted that, apart from diversion of traffic and demolition of the old bridge at Costain bus stop area of Lagos to create enough headroom for the standard gauge locomotive engines when it becomes operational, he said the new bridge was built in such a way that it can accommodate electric locomotive engines in the near future. On the delay in completion of laying of tracks between Agege and Ebute-Metta Junction, Amaechi said: it was not fault of CCECC but due to the urban nature of Lagos. According to him, “There are pipes all over the place in Lagos. We had to bring a company from Italy to identify the pipes because if we tried to dig out pipes, power supply will stop in Lagos and there will be no fuel for literally the entire country.” He explained further that, “We brought another company that was not part of the contract to find a solution on how to build on those pipes without causing any damage, because one of the problems with those pipes is once it is not properly done and it explodes, the whole of Lagos would be in trouble. “We have to put enough engineering in place to protect the pipes and the oil that they carry so that we don’t have an explosion, all that took time,” Amaechi declared. On the laying of tracks between Agege and Ebute-Metta Junction, the minister said CCECC had moved rapidly and were about crossing Ikeja, adding that, “With current pace, CCECC should be able to lay tracks up to Ebute-Metta Junction in the next three to four weeks. If they get to Ebute- Meta, then we are done with the first phase of the contract.” The Transport Minister had during the inspection tour of the ongoing construction of Lagos to Ibadan standard gauge railway line said that the project has more economic than political benefits for the country. He reaffirmed that the plan of federal government is to link all the state capitals by rail and by extension boost economic activities, adding that when the project is completed bulky goods and petroleum products would be evacuated to various parts of the country by rail, thereby reducing traffic congestion and damage of roads caused by articulated vehicles and petrol tankers. He noted that when the standard gauge becomes functional from Lagos to Ibadan, people resident at Ibadan can work in Lagos and resume duty daily on schedule. Looking at the current development, managing director, Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Engr. Fidet Okhiria commended government for its efforts to return the corporation to its past glory. He stated categorically that about 4,000 Nigerians have been gainfully employed as drivers, security men, bricklayers, accountants, office assistants and panel beaters amongst others by CCECC. He disclosed that already the standard gauge tracks from Iju in Lagos state to Ibadan in Oyo state has been laid and passengers are currently enjoying free train ride from Agbado to Ibadan as part of efforts to create awareness pending when commercial passenger and goods train operations will commence. Okhiria explained further that the standard gauge locomotive engines currently moves at a speed of at least 80 kilometres per hour due to the ongoing trial run, adding that when commercial operations commences, the train will be moving at a speed of 120 kilometers per hour depending on topography of the land compared to the narrow gauge engines that operates at a speed of between 35 and 40 kilometers per hour. According to him, a 74 kilometer trip from Lagos to Abeokuta could be covered within 45 minutes on standard gauge compared to one hour 30 minutes used to travel on narrow gauge within the same distance. He stated further that a trip from Lagos to Ibadan on standard gauge railway line will take about two hours thirty minutes as against four to five hours averagely spent on narrow gauge railway line.  Ibadan-Kano Standard Gauge The minister of transportation also said that, the contract for Ibadan to Kano standard gauge has been awarded to CCECC but that the federal ministry of transport is waiting for federal ministry of finance to raise funds. Perhaps, that was what informed the reason why President Muhammadu Buhari in November last year presented request to the Senate for approval of $29.96 billion loan to finance infrastructural development. While awaiting for funds to be raised, Amaechi stressed that, “Once work commences on the Ibadan to Kano standard gauge corridor, the only city where problem of urbanisation is envisaged may probably be Kano but that all the design for construction of standard gauge rail tracks is outside Kano.” Amaechi also stated that he cannot see the reason why these problems associated with Lagos can be replicated in other parts of the country adding that was why CCECC promised that the corporation will complete Ibadan to Lagos in three years instead of six years based on the availability of land compared to Lagos where underlying pipes abound. “We need close to $4 billion between Lagos and Kano, another $2 to $3 billion between Port Harcourt and Maiduguri. So what we have done instead of waiting (because we have lost quite a lot of years,) was to try to get the federal government to allow us borrow money and fund it”, he said.  Bonny Seaport, Port-Harcourt Industrial Park According to the minister of transportation, “President Muhammadu Buhari has given approval earlier for the construction of the standard gauge, the seaport in Bonny and Port Harcourt Industrial Park, so what we have done is that we need approval again. If we start pursuing the money to construct Port Harcourt to Maiduguri now in case of loan, we may not get the loan.” While looking for the money to construct the standard gauge, he averred that the ministry decided to seek approval to rehabilitate the narrow gauge from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri linking Bonny at a cost slightly below $3 billion which can be easily sourced.  He stated further that, “Investors are willing to build the seaport and industrial park with their own money but that it requires government approval before sourcing for fund,” he added.  Port Harcourt-Maiduguri Standard Gauge The President Muhammadu Buhari according to Amaechi is a bit more determined that a standard gauge, from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri should be constructed but that the problem was funding. “I am not saying we are not going to get fund but when you see how long it took us to get $5.3 billion for Ibadan to Kano, which took us more than three years and we are asking for $12 billion loan; it won’t be that easy. “So, for us at the ministry, we thought, why not at least rehabilitate the narrow gauge, remove the slippers, ballasts, tracks and replace them, rebuild the stations; extend it to Damaturu in Yobe state and to Bonny in Rivers state. “But don’t forget that the president’s argument is that he wants standard gauge. We agreed with him, we are going to look for the money for the standard gauge pending when we get the money, the rehabilitation of the old ones will facilitate trips,” Amaechi said.  East-West Standard Gauge Railway Line Feasibility studies have been carried out to link all the state capitals with standard gauge railway line and the East-West corridor is no exception. However, the ministry is still sourcing for fund to finance the East-West standard gauge railway project.  Warri-Itakpe Standard Gauge  The project was abandoned halfway for about 33 years by successive governments, but the present government having seen the financial outlay already invested completed the project. Currently, commuters are enjoying free train ride even though residents of communities around the Warri-Itakpe rail corridor complained about the long distance of the train stations to their communities. The minister of transportation had during a working visit enjoined the contractor handling the project to complete work on some train stations still under construction as well as install signal and communication equipment. He also said that contract has been signed to extend standard gauge railway line from Itakpe to Abuja, adding that people resident at Asaba and Enugu can travel to Itakpe to enter a train to Abuja when the project is completed.  Arrival Of New Coaches Speaking on the new coaches that had just arrived in the country, Amaechi explained the engines and coaches are awaiting to be transported to Abuja by rail. He said: CCECC have to transport the new engines and coaches for onward transfer to Abuja, while the remaining engine and nine coaches including power car will be deployed to operate from Lagos to Ibadan and back when commercial operations start. According to him, before end of this month or first week of March the engines and coaches would have reached their destinations. Meanwhile, residents of Abeokuta, Ijoko and Agbado living along the railway corridor and environs recently staged peaceful protests saying the Federal Ministry of Transport has granted CCECC approval to encroach on their farmlands through erosion caused by ongoing construction of Lagos to Ibadan Standard gauge railway line. Some communities have been completely extricated from their loved ones even as car owners drop their vehicles at home in order to look for alternative modes of transport.  Why Rail Sector Development Is Imperative According to Nigeria Bureau for Statistics (NBS) report, driving in many parts of the country these days, has become a nightmare as most commuters spend longer hours on journeys that would ordinarily have been an hour’s journey because of the deplorable state of the roads from one cardinal point to another. The total economic effects of such bad roads to the nation, the health of the citizens, operation of businesses, the safety of lives and properties is unquantifiable. Although the bureau blames most accidents on these roads to tyre burst and speed violation, the fact is that the state of the roads is a huge contributor to the crashes which has led to an alarming number of injured and dead road users. An inspection across major highways and some inner-city roads, show that some of the roads have received little attention from the federal and state governments in recent months, so much that if commuters were to plant trees in the potholes like it is done in the Indian state of Hyderabad, there would be no road at all. The terrible state of most Nigerian roads is worse during rainy season even as condition of the roads also makes it almost impossible for transporters to make profit. There is no doubt that roads play a very important role in any nation’s infrastructural development, but most Nigerian roads are currently in bad shape. And this has and is still leading to negative economic effects such that importers as most of the trucks conveying their containers are in deplorable state as a result of potholes on the roads. To make matters worse, the conditions of these roads now aid the activities of kidnappers and armed robbers who mount their barricade at spots where drivers have to slow down to maneuver in search of better grounds to drive on. A transporter, Ibrahim Abdullahi, while speaking after a trip to Lagos agrees that most federal and state-owned roads are gradually turning into death-traps and hotspot for bandits and kidnappers. “The potholes are ubiquitous on Nigerian roads but there are gaping holes in the road leading from Benin-Abuja. There are deep gullies on Benin-Warri road, Benin-Asaba road, and Benin-Abuja road. “Upon closer inspection, the depths of the holes are posing potentially dangerous consequences for vehicles driving past. It is not uncommon to see some drivers driving dangerously, but the truth is, tyre burst due to bad roads is one of the major reason accidents happen on the high way,” he said. Abdullahi said there is need for more cooperation with the highway controllers such as Federal Emergency Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA) to avert accidents.  “A journey which ordinarily should take not more than eight hours now takes more than 13 hours. Journey from Benin to Okene through Auchi, for instance, takes up to six hours. “The sections of the road that are particularly bad include Okpella, Ekpoma, and Ehor. Sadly, as motorists make effort to avoid the bad spots, as they pass through Okpella community, the locals block the road and demand money before they would allow them passage. Of all the major highways in Edo State, the Bénin-Okenne-Abuja and Benin-Ore-Lagos are the most strategic for travelers across the country,” he said. Abdullahi noted that the two roads connect the South-West and the North to the South-South and South-East, adding that, there is heavy vehicular traffic on the roads, especially during festive periods. The situation is the same for commuters that ply the Ibadan-Ife road which is gradually becoming impassable by motorists and has no alternative route.