In this piece, ANTHONY AWUNOR, writes that bird strike has become a major threat to air safety, admitting that the issue is being put under control by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). For some time now, collision between birds/wildlife and aircrafts has resulted in the death of hundreds of people and is responsible for annual losses worth about US $1.2 billion to the global aviation industry according to a recent report released by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Reports have it that between 2005 and 2010, a total of 209 strike incidents were reported in the country. Kites and hawks were found to be responsible for 57 percent of reported strikes. Several factors including lack of adequate data, shortage of funds, inadequate training of staff and lack of public awareness about bird/wildlife hazards were found to be militating against effective control in Nigeria. To curb the menace, major stakeholders in the Nigerian aviation industry recently organised a symposium sponsored by the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) in Lagos with the theme: ‘Reduction of Wildlife Strike Hazard at Nigerian Airports”. At the forum, it was observed that the country’s airlines are losing billions of naira to the bird strike issue on yearly basis. Recently, the issue of bird strike has become a source of worry as it came to a point that it became rampant, causing huge costs of maintenance and operations. Recall that Ethiopian Airlines last November, made an emergency return to Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), after hitting birds at take-off. Similarly, Air Peace’s Boeing 737 aircraft, which took off from Enugu Airport on its way to Abuja was disrupted by  birds. The pilot returned to base 15 minutes later after a bird struck one of the two engines, while it was gaining altitude. Also, in 2017, a Dana Air aircraft en-route Port Harcourt, made an air return, some minutes after take-off from the Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA), Lagos. The aircraft, with registration number 5N-SRI returned after colliding with a bird mid-air. A report claimed that over 200 people died as a result of bird strikes with civil and military aircraft from 1988-2006, but birds are not the only problem. A recent survey uncovered over 630 damaging strikes to aircraft involving terrestrial wildlife like deer, wild dogs and crocodiles in 22 countries. In the United States alone, 17 civil aircraft have been destroyed by collisions with deer since 1983 to 2010. However, FAAN’s one day symposium on the issue has brought about suggestion and ways the issue could be addressed, just as the proffered ways that damage to equipment by birds could be minimised. Data obtained by Leadership Sunday at the symposium indicated  that in 2015, there were 58 recorded bird strike cases, 98 in 2016; 193 in 2017 and 127 of such incidences in 2019. Speaking at the event, Capt. Jide Bakare, Safety Manager, Arik Air in who lamented that the airline had lost about $3.6m in six years to bird strikes at several airports across the country. According to Bakare, in 2019 alone, the airline lost $430,000 to damage of its aircraft due to bird strikes, adding that it also lost $466,000 to two bird strike incidents at Enugu Airport. The safety manager emphasised that the airline has had 11 bird strike incidents in recent time, stressing that 95 per cent of bird strikes in aircraft occur in at below 3000ft. Bakare said “Impact of bird strikes in the office of airlines cannot be overemphasized. We at Arik Air, we have spent millions of dollars on replacement of aircraft blades, engines and others in recent time as a result of bird strikes to our equipment. In 2019 alone, Arik Air expended the sum of $430,000 to replace damaged components on our aircraft due to bird strike incidents. “When we had two bird strikes at Enugu Airport, we spent about $466,000 to replace the damage components on our two aircraft. Port Harcourt International Airport is not different from others. There are lots of bird activities at this airport. But, findings indicated that 95 per cent of bird strikes occur at below 3,000ft.” Mr. Adebayo Opeloyemi of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), while making his presentation advised residents to properly dispose their wastes and ensure clean environment. Opeloyemi emphasised that Nigeria was home to about 1000 birds and 370 species, while there are about 600,000 birds worldwide. He suggested setting up of a committee to tackle wildlife and mentioned their duties to include organisation of conferences and evaluation of reports, among others. Alhaji Bola Ahmed of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) in his presentation, called for a little patience from airlines and passengers in order to avert bird strike. He said this would enable airport operator and airline control birds to avoid destruction to engine landing gear, windshield and other components in aircraft. He specifically pointed out that there were lots of bird strike incidents at Enugu Airport for instance because of the location of the aerodrome to an abattoir, which he said draws more birds to such vicinity. In his opening remarks Managing Director, FAAN, Capt Rabiu Yadudu, said that International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) reports indicated that wildlife occurrences were responsible for 3.6 per cent incidence globally. Yadudu concurred that reduction in wildlife incidences would greatly help to enhance flight safety if all stakeholders including airlines, airport operators, ground handling companies, regulatory agency and others could work together in mitigating the global threat to aircraft safety. The FAAN boss, however, advocated the use of technology to address the situation, noting that FAAN was on the verge of acquiring equipment to discard birds within the airport environment. “It’s a nod to this and recognition of the roles that stakeholders across the spectrum need to play in order to achieve this objective that the Airports Council International (ACI) in conjunction with the ICAO conveyed the symposium on Reduction of Wildlife Strike Hazard, which was held in 2017,” he said. Capt. Muktar Muye, Director, Airport Operations, FAAN, in his keynote address said FAAN was on the verge of acquiring Phonic Bird Wailers in its efforts to reduce the effect of wildlife and bird strikes to operating airlines. Muye explained that in the coming years, it was projected that there would be more airlines, while increase would also be recorded in the numbers of wildlife. He however sought the cooperation of aviation stakeholders and public to fight the challenge in the sector. “Airline operations are complex and operating cost are high. Time is one of the most valuable commodities and schedules are finely tuned to ensure on time performance. Striving to achieve this, flight crews are constantly weighing safety and economies”, Muye added. Capt. Segun Omole, Director of Flight Operations, Dana Air, in a recent interview with our correspondent, said that Nigerian airlines lose billions of Naira to bird strikes annually. Omole equally, regretted that despite the huge loss, FAAN with its Department of Wildlife Control had not adopted modern technologies to reduce the threat in any of the nation’s airports. He explained that in order to control the assault on aircraft, the government needed to identify species of birds that create the problems for airlines, things that attract birds to the airport and acquire modern equipment that would reduce their activities at the nation’s airports. 