Nigeria can benefit immensely from the $4trilion Africa’s blue economy potential through the diversification of the nation’s economy with specific emphasis on the blue economy, LEADERSHIP Sunday learned. The blue economy is harvesting of the benefits of fishing, agriculture, tourism, energy and other supplementary maritime derivatives to fulfil Africa’s economic agenda. The resources in the seas and oceans worldwide stand at $3 trillion; and that figure could very well be a gross underestimation with over 75 percent of the earth covered by water, the seas and oceans hold tremendous potential for development and economic prosperity for Nigeria if it’s willing to harness the abundant resources. However, with 10,000 kilometres of inland waterways, out of which 3,000km is navigable and 840km coastline facing international waters, Nigeria with the largest coastline and water body can harnessed $4 trillion available in the blue economy for Africa. While speaking, the founder of Proshare, Olufemi Awoyemi, while presenting a paper on, “Awakening the Blue Giant: Catalyzing The Growth of Nigeria’s Maritime Economy Through Public Relations”, said blue economy has the potential to create both economic growth and development. He said, “The added African wealth that can be generated from the ocean is conservatively valued at US$ 4 trillion, which is equivalent to the GDP of countries in East Asia and the Pacific with estimated goods and services of $2.5 trillion annually. “If, collectively, the African oceans were a country, they would constitute the eighth largest economy in the world just after India and perhaps just ahead of Italy. He said, “the blue economy has an enormous potential of dragging the Nigerian economy out of its slow-moving GDP growth rate (GDP growth for Q2 2019 was 1.94 percent down from 2.38 percent in Q4 2018). But a lot will depend on understanding the Blue ecosystem; the synergies, the strategic imperatives and the overarching vision to unleashing maritime sector growth. “Nigeria’s Blue Economy could help the country diversify and generate far larger revenues than currently exists, but this will require a clear delineation of maritime economic activities across littoral states. “Nigeria’s blue economy would, if above is adopted, help prepare the country for growth without oil, meaning that a lot of the maritime traffic that currently dominates transport data at the wharfs will be gradually scaled down to include more non-oil export and import numbers for proper decision-making. “It is trite knowledge that, for Nigeria to achieve lower oil-sector related shipping as a proportion of total maritime ship movement by tonnage and value, the government must be deliberate and focused.” Also, director general of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside said the agency would develop a policies that would develop the nation’s marine biodiversity for economic growth. Dakuku stated that while the blue economy contributed $962billion to China’s economy in 2014, the United States got $258billion in 2010. “The global community is looking more and more towards the seas and oceans for economic prosperity. According to an Economist Intelligence Unit Report (EIUR), China’s ocean economy contributed $962 billion or 10 per cent of GDP in 2014 employing 9million people. “The United States similarly valued its ocean economy at $258billion in 2010 or 1.8 per cent of the gross domestic product. “These statistics underscore the inherent and diverse opportunities which Nigeria can as a nation use for rapid economic transformation and development.” He however assured that the agency would ensure the formulation of policies that would develop the nation’s marine biodiversity for economic growth.” He bemoaned Nigeria and other African countries low quest of harnessing the potentials inherent in the blue economy. His words, “even though the global community was looking towards the ocean and sea for economic prosperity, such cannot be said of African countries. There was the need for government and critical stakeholders in the maritime sector to put in place measures that would facilitate and promote sustainable use, protection and preservation of the abundant resources in Nigeria seas and oceans. “Marine biodiversity as you are aware consists of the different species, their riches and abundance in the world’s oceans and seas. The sustainability of these diverse species which are abound in African seas and oceans is not only important to us as Africans, but also of a direct economic benefit to us as a nation.”