Since the Supreme Court judgment of January 14, 2020 in respect of the Imo governorship election was delivered, the state has not known peace as Imolites have continued to express surprise at the rationale behind the verdict which upturned the victory of Emeka Ihedioha in favour of Hope Uzodimma. In this report, EMMANUEL MGBEAHURUIKE writes on the bid by Ihedioha to have the judgement of the apex court reversed, among others. The political permutations and maneuvering in the country could be said to be incomplete without viewing with keen interest the political development in Imo state, as the state presents a typical soap opera scenario where the various gladiators played interesting roles in the evolving socio political turf of the state. The Supreme Court judgment delivered on the 14th January 2020 hit Imo like a thunderbolt as the citizens lest expected judgment to have gone the way it went as the fourth suddenly became the first. The Imo state Supreme Court judgment present serious puzzle and so many questions begging for answers in the sense that how can one ordinarily explain a situation where All Progressives Congress (APC) who had no elected state lawmakers in an election conducted the same day with the governorship election and 69 other political parties and candidates inclusive took part in the election. It is interesting to note that in the said election, APC governorship candidate, Senator Hope Uzodinma had an entirely different result from the magical 388 polling units tendered by the APC and were rejected by INEC, the Tribunal and the Appeal Court also rejected the 388 polling units. Conversely, the permutations and mathematical calculation of the Apex court has succeeded in creating more voters in Imo than were created in INEC’s accredited voters list. Ironically, just like the biblical injunction, the fourth has sudden become the first thereby increasing the doubts of the citizens on the veracity and authenticity of the said judgment delivered by the Apex court. Imo could be likened to a noted nollywood film with an unending parts, the former governor Rochas Okorocha who had bestroded the political scene from 2011-2019 like a colossus will fit in vividly as the actor in this film of an unending parts. The former Governor who had started his populist administration was greeted with wild jubilation from the masses while the elites watched him from a distance having known his antecedent. They were not carried away probably because all that glitters are not gold. At the end of the day, they were justified as the former Governor later became a sole administrator in the state shoving everybody aside including the Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere who appears to be wearing the toga of only child in the All Progressives Congress (APC). The APC albinito was not reckoned with in the state as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) hold the ace in the state, however inter-Party squabbles torn the party apart. The PDP having suffered in the opposition for eight years is now the beneficiary of what could be considered as the misadventure of APC which was orchestrated by the greed of Okorocha who was hell bent on imposing his son-in-law Uche Nwosu as the Governor of the state. Okorocha had reasoned that with his financial muscle couple with contacts in the APC, the issue of installing Nwosu, would be a smooth sail, thereby by underrating the capacity of other party faithful. This desperation made the promoters of Nwosu to loose sight of the fact that he had been nominated as the candidate of APC and Actions Alliance (AA) at the same time. This of course marked the beginning of the downfall of Okorocha dynasty. Political pundits are of the view that if Okorocha’s son in-law had grabbed the ticket of APC without interference, Okorocha would have rolled out the drums, however the opposition against this ambition made it difficult, if not impossible for him to actualize this wild dream. The PDP in the state having realized its mistakes decided to put their house in order and brought out Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, a master strategist, who does not believe in noise making, watching him closely one would take home the axiom that action speaks louder than words. Ihedioha having observed the fight going on between Okorocha and various APC faithful cashed in and gained the confidence of Imo populace with the mantra “Rebuild Imo Agenda” and his watch word “My Word is My Bound”. The PDP fever caught the Imo Citizenry just like the Harmattan cold and all and sundry keyed into the Ihedioha project with the mindset that this project is different from one building an empire for himself and grabbing third term through the back door. Ultimately, PDP became the beneficiary of the uncoordinated attempt by Okorocha to single handedly install a governor without the input of other stakeholders of the party. Now that the war is over, Nwosu wants to eat his cake and still have same, having pursued the case of his governorship ambition to a dead end, it appears that the cock is coming home to roast. Nwosu, now realizing that AA leads to nowhere has decided to realign with APC having realized that the ruling party is the sure way to grabbing appointments and patronages from the federal government. The saying that when two elephants fight, the grass suffers would soon play out as Nwosu positions himself as heir apparent to Okorocha dynasty having succeeded in side lining the former deputy governor, Prince Madumere and others, who the national leadership of the party is undecided on what to do with them. Nwosu who is backed by his godfather, Okorocha seems favoured to pick prominent position in APC at the end of the day. If this scenario plays out, this could be likened to the party throwing away the baby with the bad water. As those who have been waiting in the wings for compensation in respect of the role played for APC in frustrating the emergence of Nwosu as the governor of Imo State would have felt betrayed. For them, they already knew who the victor and the vanquished are in this instance. As things stand the struggle for the soil of Imo has been won and lost. Hon. Ihedioha of PDP who could be likened to the cat with nine live is a fighter any day and appears to have the master stroke to confront the likes of Senator Ifeanyi Arararume,  Senator Hope Uzodinma and Uche Nwosu and a host of others, thereby emerging as the grand master of Imo Politics. Imo State to the uninitiated portrays the ambiance like of a stream politically. However, to the key players and those who extra sensory perception, politically Imo is a deep sea just like the bar beach and has the capacity so sink any object. The more you think you have perfected your expertise in swimming in Imo political sea, the more you are likely to be drown, no matter the level of your swimming expertise as Imo would now prove to be a ocean in this instance. In Imo, no matter your pedigree and political dexterity, when dealing with Imo electorate you have to apply extra caution, otherwise, the same populace that sang Hosanna yesterday, would join to say crucify him when the chips are down. Political pundits are of the view that some politicians never learn their lessons probably because of enormous wealthy they display during the election, hoping to buy everybody over. Announcing his return to APC, Nwosu, the son-in-law of the immediate past Governor of the state, Chief Rochas Okorocha, addressed newsmen at the Imo Airport shortly after his arrival from Abuja. Nwosu, who left the APC after failing to obtain the party’s sole ticket for the election, maintained that the Supreme Court, which voided his petition for double nomination, has actually affirmed that he is still a member of the APC. “The Supreme Court has said it all; it said I am the candidate of APC, what it means is that I’m the candidate of APC even though another person was foisted on APC. “That aside, I have forgiven everybody, no matter what they have done; from the National Chairman to Gulak and to those in the state. What we need is to move ahead. We are brothers and sisters, there must be peace. “You can only have one governor in a state and you can only have one final court and that is the Supreme Court. We have to accept it. For me, politics is not a do or die affair. It’s give-and-take. The Supreme Court has given its judgment, either good or bad, I have accepted it. “What matters is Imo State. I’ve said in my statement, whoever wins at the Supreme Court, I will give my support, be it Emeka Ihedioha, Araraume or Uzodinma, I will support but in supporting, if you do well, I will praise, if you don’t, we would criticise you. “I have no regret at all. It’s not my first time of running for a political position. I’m a politician and town planner by profession. “For now, politics is over pending when there would be another election. I’m still a young man with age to my advantage.” Conversely, Imo presents a different ball game entirely as the electorate are likely to go home with your offer and vote the candidate of their choice. The state is used to prophesy/predictions from various men of God. The political situation in Imo is an open soar visible for everybody to see and the governorship race for now seems to be won and lost. Various political litigants and governorship candidates who are unlikely to upturn the table for Hon. Ihedioha, who is presently occupying the governorship seat should by now have the feeling from the various judgments that their ambition appears like a wild geese chase. Any governorship candidate abreast with the ruling of the tribunal and the courts, so far and from all indications still very far from the gate of the government house, would surely need the services of prophets for supplication ahead 2023 nomination by one of the political parties. Reacting to Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka’s prophesy, the governor of Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, stressed that he is not disturbed about the new year prophecy of the spiritual director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu. Fr. Mbaka had predicted that the All Progressives Congress governorship candidate in the March 9, 2019, governorship election, Senator Hope Uzodinma, would be crowned the governor of the state. His words, “I don’t know the manner the revelation will manifest but no prophecy has ever been declared on this prayer ground without coming to pass. “In spite of all that would happen this 2020, there is hope. In Imo state, there is hope. Hope, hope, hope. Hope in Imo State. Imo people have suffered but God is raising a new hope that would be an agent of salvation for them. “He is coming with a new flag to restore the dignity of that noble land. New leadership will break barriers and there would be joy in the land of Imo. Lift your candles as I bless Hope Uzodinma and I empower him spiritually to take over. How, I do not know.” The governor who spoke through the commissioner for Information, Felix Ebiliekwe, dismissed Mbaka’s prophecy, while highlighting that the governor, his aides and appointees were not bothered by the cleric’s prophecy and predictions . His words,  “Apart from Uzodinma coming a distant fourth at the polls, his petitions at the Elections Petitions Tribunal and his appeal at the Court of Appeal against the declaration of Ihedioha as the governor of the state by the Independent National Electoral Commission were “summarily dismissed.” According to him, “The governor is not disturbed. The government and people of Imo State are not disturbed. Imo has been liberated and the governor is busy at a very fast pace rebuilding the state. “Senator Hope Uzodinma’s petition at the court of the first instance, Elections Petitions Tribunal was dismissed. His appeal at the Court of Appeal was thrown out for want of merit. The supreme court will equally do the same because there will not be any fresh evidence to be filed. “I will suggest to Revd. Fr Mbaka to face his spiritual calling and leave politics alone. Imo is in save hands. The things the governor has been able to do in seven months have shown and is very clear to the blind that Imo is being rebuilt. The governor is not disturbed by the priest’s prophecy.” The Elders Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Imo state also has taken exception to the recent statement credited to Rev. Father Ejike Mbaka of the Adoration Ministries Enugu on the ligation of the 2019 gubernatorial election in the state. The Elders who observed with shock that the priest pronounced judgment at his adoration ground in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the election -Senator Hope Uzodinma dismissed the proclamation as very sadly and contemptuous of the supreme court. In a statement on behalf of the elders which was made available to newsmen in Owerri, elder statesman and a chieftain of the Party, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu argued that INEC which duly and diligently conducted the polls had in honesty and in transparency and in pursuit of its duty as the electoral arbiter declared Chief Emeka Ihedioha of the PDP who scored the highest number of votes cast and also fulfilled all the other constitutional requirements and emerged the winner of the polls. The decision, he stressed was received with very loud ovation by the people of the state who he said desperately needed to have a new beginning. Since then, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha has assumed office and very noticeable transformation has taken place in all aspects of life of Imo people. The activities of his Excellency Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha has been appraised on regular basis and endorsed by the council of elders”. Chief Iwuanyanwu explained that the council of elders are impressed with his achievements in the areas of road maintenance, water supply, security, payment of salaries and pension to retired civil servants in the state, adding that groups outside the state had equally rated his government very high in the crusade against corruption and inflation. As citizens who believe in the rule of law, Chief Iwuanyanwu said that the elders would not prejudge the verdict of the Supreme court, saying that they have absolute confidence in the apex count to uphold justice. While urging the people of the state and supporters outside the state who worked very hard to effect the change in the state that brought Governor Ihedioha to power to remain calm and to wait on God and the verdict of the highest court in the land. The elders congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari for maintaining absolute neutrality and for resisting the temptation to succumb to the pressure of some politicians using his position in influencing the result of the election.