The federal government has inaugurated an 11- member Committee that will help in streamlining the provisions for engagement of expatriates as well as skilled Contract Officers within the Civil/Public Service System of Nigeria. Acting Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, said this while inaugurating a Committee on Operational Guidelines for Contract Appointment in the Civil/ Public Service yesterday in Abuja. Yemi-Esan revealed that the Committee is being constituted to develop modalities for the implementation of short term engagements, Sabbatical Leave as well as Exchange Programmes and Talent Sourcing Strategy in the Civil/ Public Service. The number one civil servant who said in line with the federal government’s determination to reform the Civil Service as outlined in the 2017 – 2020 Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation Plan (FCSSIP) which she said provides for exchange of programme among workers in the public and private sectors to the Civil Service, further explained that the talent sourcing strategy will include attracting professionals with innovative ideas into the civil service to fill existing skill gaps created due to exit of experienced professionals from the service as a result of retirement or the search for greener pastures. “This assignment is necessary given the need to streamline the provisions of contract appointments in the Civil/Public Service in line with PSR 020401. It is also necessitated by the need to revisit PSR 100222 which provides for one-year Sabbatical leave for Officers on Salary Grade Levels 15 and above in the Civil/Public Service but which has been observed to be predominantly implemented in tertiary institutions and some research institutions, she said”. The Committee which is Co-Chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Service Policies and Strategy Office, Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr. Magdalene Ajani and the Permanent Secretary Federal Civil Service Commission, Mr. Abel Enitan is made of Retired and Serving Directors in the Federal Civil Service as members.