The federal government has commenced a review process of its Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) to ascertain its performance since it was launched in 2017. The economic plan has a lifetime of 2017-2020. The ERGP lays out the government’s strategy for achieving the Government’s vision of sustained and inclusive growth. The plan aims at economic recovery in the short-term, and structural reforms aimed at diversifying the economy to set it on a path toward sustained and inclusive growth over the medium to long-term. Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Prince Clem Agba who made the disclosure, explained that it’s review is currently ongoing  to ascertain what has worked well and what did not so that the area that needs re-enforcement would be attended to and for the ones that did not work, to find out why and then see how to improve on them. “It has to go beyond the ERGP, we are looking at very old plans that we have had before. We already asking the MDAs to review their sector plans and we are currently receiving them with a view to consolidating them and giving them to the technical working committee to work on” the Minister said. Prince Agba stated this during a familiarisation visit of the Center for Management Development (CMD) centres in Abuja and Lagos, according a statement that was issued by Director (Information) MBNP, Victoria Agba-Attah on Sunday. Accordingly, the Minister expressed hope for an improved economy in the new development plan which his ministry has already started the development process, stating that the national steering committee for the new plan would be inaugurated in March this year Mr. Agba has also said that CMD will be given a facelift to become a world class center of excellence. Reacting to the level of infrastructural decay in the CMD, the Minister said, “ I have seen the infrastructure and I am not too happy about it. We have to do all that we can to change the narrative, because lamentation will not help. We have to start taking those steps gradually” He described the deficit in the agency’s infrastructure and staff capacity gaps as a hinderance to the agency in achieving it’s set goals While expressing his displeasure with the level of infrastructural decay in the agency, Prince Agba also encouraged the management and staff of the institute to device ways and means they could improve their revenue generation so that they will be in a better economic condition, to be able to give the centre a deserved  facelift. Earlier in his remarks, the acting director general of CMD, Bitrus Chinoko, told the Minister that lack of capacity building for staff is one of the reasons the centre found it difficult to meet it’s set goals and objectives Chinoko explained that, it is the greatest desire of the agency to look forward to a world class centre for excellence, and pointed out that, that can only be achieved with good infrastructure and highly skilled staff Meanwhile, the staff, during an interactive session with the Minister, expressed the need for regular trainings and capacity building for staff in order to uplift the center to a world class status They called for the confirmation of the Acting DG to enable him further consolidate with the tremendous changes he brought to the center since he came on board They also assured the minister that CMD would deliver its mandate optimally if necessary support is given, pointing out that majority of the staff made personal efforts to develop themselves with necessary knowledge in order to deliver their duties CMD is a government agency saddled with the responsibilities of regulation of standards, development of managerial manpower for the country and a broad range of skills to enhance the quality of management and leadership for the attainment of national economic goal