Nigerian Air Force commanders converged in Abuja to re-strategise and evolve ways to tackle insurgency , an issue that has defied conventional approach. TARKAA DAVID writes. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) from 20th to 21st February, 2020 held a two-day Commanders’ Retreat for 2020 at the NAF Officers Mess and Suites Kado, Abuja. The retreat had in attendance NAF commanders from Formations and Units across the Country, who essentially serve as the fulcrum for the translation and execution of NAF strategies into actionable plans through the daily leadership and administration of various NAF elements. The Chief of the Air Staff Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar in his address tasked commanders to ensure they integrate and win the hearts of the populace in order to surmount security challenges bedeviling the nation. Abubakar said the retreat with the theme “Enhancing Efficiency and Effectiveness of NAF Unit Commanders in Contemporary Security Environment” was part of efforts to evolve strategies to meet the requirements of the ever-changing national-security environment. He averred that gathering was aimed to enhance the capacity of commanders and potential commanders towards the discharge of the service’s constitutional duty of protecting the nation’s sovereignty. Chief of the Air Staff noted that the vision of his administration is hinged on human capacity development which explains why the service has made consistent efforts over the years to conduct over 26,000 training courses for officers, airmen and airwomen, both locally and abroad, across various NAF specialties, towards ensuring the effective and efficient employment of airpower in response to national security imperatives. Speaking further, the CAS reminded commanders of their responsibilities to the nation as a fighting force. According to him, the NAF is obligated to protect the sovereignty and sanctity of Nigeria as well as the lives and properties of the citizens and inhabitants. “Let me use this forum to remind us of our responsibilities to our dear nation as a fighting force. We are all obliged to protect the sovereignty and sanctity of our dear country, Nigeria. The unity, as well as the protection of the lives and properties of the inhabitants. “These can only be achieved through a sound mind, renewed orientation and re-evaluation of our actions and inactions as leaders. It is also pertinent to remind ourselves of the contemporary asymmetric nature of warfare, which has defied the conventional battle. “We must recognise that this war cannot be fought in isolation of the civil populace, hence the need to integrate, and win the hearts and minds of the civilian populace towards gaining intelligence to further our missions and operations,” he said Speaking further, Air Marshal Abubakar charged the commanders on the need for prudent management of resources. According to him, in the midst of economic challenges, resources at the disposal of the NAF and its commanders must be utilized prudently towards the attainment of set objectives. He stressed that the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has zero-tolerance for financial misappropriation. According to him, “Needful to say that this present dispensation has zero-tolerance for financial misappropriation, hence the need for commanders to keep abreast of the financial regulations as regards discharge of public funds.” The CAS, therefore, charged the commanders to keep abreast of the financial regulations as regards the use of public funds. On delivering the mandate of the service, he assured them that the NAF Headquarters, on its part, would continue to work assiduously to ensure that the mandate assigned to the service is achieved. “As such Commanders should remain assured of our support towards the successful conduct of missions and operations. I, therefore, implore you all to maximize the opportunity afforded by this Retreat to learn from the experiences of our retired colleagues, rub minds and clear grey areas”, he added. Earlier in his welcome address, the Chief of Policy and Plans (COPP), Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Isiaka Oladayo Amao, noted that the 2020 Commanders’ Retreat would consolidate on the gains recorded during previous editions, which, he said, reflected positively on the output of participants. Amao noted that, while the NAF was aware that the commanders had acquired some knowledge and equipped themselves with various tools for the discharge of command duties either from staff courses, war colleges, defence colleges or through personal efforts, they would undoubtedly benefit from the experiences of others to function optimally. “Moreover, the fluid nature of the contemporary security situation requires commanders to be flexible in the discharge of command responsibilities of which shared ideas and experiences could greatly help, in the light of command challenges”, he added. The retreat provided room for sharing of opinions and experiences of various commanders on command responsibilities, issues and challenges. On the first day, two presentations were made first by AVM Gabriel Odesola (retired) on “Understanding the Rudiments of Command Responsibility in an Asymmetric Environment”, while the second presentation was made by the Assistant Director Analysis Compliance from the National Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU). Day two had presentations on “Enhancing Civil-Military Relations – Commanders’ Role” and “Strategic Decision Making in Command Appointments – My Experience” by AVM PC Abel (retired) and AVM AA Zannah (retired), respectively. The Year 2020 Retreat is purposed to avail commanders and prospective commanders with out-of-the-book experiences from retired senior officers who held command appointments while in the Service.  