A day after a tripartite agreement was sealed by Nigeria, the Island of Jersey and the United States of America (USA) for the repatriation of $308 million stolen assets recovered from the late head of state, Gen. Sani Abacha, the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), has revealed that the federal government has commenced fresh negotiations for looted funds by former governor of Delta State, James Ibori, former minister of petroleum, Diezani Alison-Madueke, the late governor of Bayelsa State, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, and Kola Aluko, a businessman. Malami, who spoke from Washington DC via telephone on Channels Television’s Politics Today programme monitored by LEADERSHIP in Abuja yesterday, said that the recovered Abacha loot would   be returned to Nigeria soon. The deal was consummated by the interested parties in Washington DC on Tuesday. He added that the further recovery of stolen funds would continue including those from the late Abacha, Ibori, Diezani, the late Alamieyeseigha and businessman, Aluko. Malami said that the monies in question were domiciled in the United Kingdom (UK), US, and France. He said: “As it is, we have commenced negotiations in respect of additional monies not only relating to Abacha but indeed extending to other parties of interest inclusive of money to be recovered relating to Ibori, a former governor in Nigeria, inclusive of the money to be recovered relating to Alamieyeseigha, inclusive of additional money to be repatriated relating to Diezani Alison-Madueke, and indeed Kola Aluko. “So, negotiations in respect of the additional monies had indeed commenced yesterday (Tuesday) and we look forward to signing further agreements in no distant future for the purpose of repatriation of additional sums. For the record, the amount to be repatriated related to the agreements signed yesterday (Tuesday) is over $300 million which translates to over N100 billion,” Malami said. On whether the latest recovered $308 million Abacha loot is the last tranche of money stolen by the late military head of state, Malami said: “It is not the last. Negotiations are ongoing in respect of Abacha but then we are restricting further recoveries to Abacha. We are extending it to the other parties of interest like Diezani, Ibori, Alamieyeseigha and indeed Kola Aluko. So, in respect of Abacha, it is not the last, we are still expecting additional money but then we are expanding the negotiations to cover other parties of interest.” The minister also explained that fees to be paid to lawyers involved in the legal process leading to the recoveries will not exceed five per cent as directed by President Muhammadu Buhari as against the practice by the previous government which paid between 25 per cent to 40 per cent fees.  