Senator Adamu Abdullahi is representing Nasarawa West senatorial district and in this interview with RUTH CHOJI,the chairman, Senate committee on Agriculture said, our laws frowns at hydra headed security outfits. Nigerians are worried that the recent finance bill accented to by the president could lead to more hardship and inflation. What is your take on this? I am not surprised because anytime  change comes, it comes with discomfort and in some cases a little difficulty and it is always hard for people to adjust. No government or President will deliberately want to inflict hardship on its people. Mr president is very passionate about Nigeria and is determined to see that things are working. He promised to change how things are done in the country. We as a party also want to revamp the economy and  develop those sectors  that are not functioning. Every sector in Nigeria today needs attention And the Federal Government does not have the resources to fix it. The finance bill will not affect the masses in anyway because it is meant to generate revenue for the government that will be used for developing infrastructure. The taxes and VAT  that was increased is meant for luxury items and big companies. The problem of Nigeria is that people just talk without facts or they don’t take their time to find out the truth before talking about key issues. Those condemning the bill without seeing it are either being mischievous or don’t know anything. Everybody knows that Nigeria’s tax and VAT is the lowest even among African countries. I know some African countries that have as low  as 15 per cent VAT. So for the Federal Government to increase it to 7.5 per cent, is still among the lowest. So the finance bill is not meant to inflict hardship or difficulties on Nigerians, but it is to help generate revenue for development.  Since the new VAT and taxes Will hopefully  generate more income for the government, why should the Federal Government source for more loans? Every government collects loan especially when they want to boost their economy through the development of  infrastructure. Rich economies like America collects loan, in fact America is highly indebted, but it is not about collecting loan but what you do with it. This government said  they want to fix our railway, hospitals, roads, schools,  and every key sector in Nigeria.  They can’t fulfill these promises without money. I was once a  Governor, though I never collected loan but, I know that there is always a time in the life of an administration when it goes out of its way to source for funds.  as long as the terms and conditions are  right and the funds will be used for the said purpose, then there is nothing wrong with that. besides this government has made it a point to service its debt. You can see that it was included in the last budget. So sourcing for loan is not bad, its when the money is mismanaged like we have had in the past that loan becomes a problem. Once these infrastructure are put in order, most of them will start generating the funds needed to pay back the loan.  The Federal Government has reiterated its determination to maintain the border closure, but some Nigerians are worried that it has caused inflation and scarcity across the country… I am in total support of border closure. My committee with relevant stakeholders in agricultural sector had series of meetings from 2018 to 2019 on ways to improve agriculture and get the nation to become food sufficient. We came up with so many recommendations that were compiled and forwarded to the Federal Government. One was on the need for us to close our borders against people that have turned Nigeria into a dumping ground.  I am a farmer and some few years ago, we farm a lot of maize, thinking the new government policy and interest in agriculture will allow us make profit. Towards the harvest period, some People went and imported maize in large quantities and brought it to Nigeria. That was how we lost heavily because overnight the price crashed. So this has been going on for years. Our farmers will farm and sell at a loss because of imported food. When I was governor, I used to eat local rice produce from my farm, but go to any governor’s house today or event, all you will see is imported foreign rice. It has now been turned into a class thing. We forget that, most of the rice imported to  Nigeria are  products that has been abandoned in a ware house for years in some countries it has lost its nutrient and may not be fit for consumption, yet it is imported into Nigeria. I know some persons in this country today who made money that way. They imported weed that had expired in America and sold it here. They made lots of money from it. But these are things we can produce ourselves and it will contain all the nutrients we need. So those complaining or criticising border closure are people that were benefitting from illegal importation of things we can produce here. All the scarcity you see are artificial, this is to  incite Nigerians against the government. Go and talk to farmers now, especially poultry farmers and see if they don’t like  the policy. Since the borders closure started, poultry farmers have  been making money. Rice farmers have increased and are also making money. If we keep at it, very soon the prices will crash and become cheap.  Nigeria will also become food sufficient like other nations and we will start exporting, but for now I support the extension. Any country that is not happy should start following the ECOWAS protocol of trade. For now, I support the indefinite border closure for our collective good. Every country has an inherent sovereign duty to protect its political and economic interest. This is not against good neighbourliness.  Killings and kidnappings seem to be on the increase, does this bother you? Yes I am worried and I think everybody should join the Federal Government in this fight against insecurity.  I get disturbed when I read of scores of people that die daily in Nigeria, but it doesn’t mean we should politicize it. Someone should not just get up and lay the blame squarely on the president. We all should take the blame. Some of the people doing the most critism have contributed more to insecurity, so we shouldn’t trade blame. I believe we should all come together and fine a common ground. There is this talk on community policing and I think if it is properly implemented, it will help because these criminals live in communities, they also attack communities. So if the people at the bottom are included in this fight, they will really help out. Every traditional ruler knows the people living in their communities. They know strangers  and  anybody that comes in. The old channel of communication should be open where they can pass information to security agencies when they notice abnormalities in their communities. The security agents also need to work in synergy with each other. Nigeria is under police. We’re a country of over 200million people and yet  have just 350,000 or there about. the police  are also lacking in equipment. We should ensure that all our security agencies continue to receive training and retraining so that they can be up-to-date with method of surveillance and operations.  As a Nation, we must always remember that security is everybody’s business and  therefore,  we must see it as a duty towards our sovereignty and National flag to always stand by the government in particular at moment of critical need as we have right now.  The opposition should desist from venting their anger at lost elections  and blaming  their misfortune on government by resorting to politics of fault finding. They should remember that if there are any fault lines,  on the issue of national security, such lapses gain ground during their 16 years. So we need to work on that and ensure that other agencies too are trained in modern terrorism warfare.  South West governors have come up with Amotekun as a means of tackling insecurity… We cannot have other security agencies asides the ones recognized by law. I am surprised that even those elected under the platform of APC could not defer to Mr president before forming this outfit. It shows a sign of mischief or some persons are  preparing for something we don’t know about. Look at the reactions immediately the presidency  kicked against the idea, it was as if they were prepared for it. Nobody has the power to take the laws into their hands. We have the police and other agencies to do that. If truly the outfit has no ulterior motive, how come nobody knew when they were training the people, when they bought the equipment and the recruiting process? Everything was done secretly. This shows there is more than meets the eyes. I will advice the Federal Government to look deeply. I more than appreciate the extent of security challenges in the South West and other parts of the country where security challenges are even more severe. I also appreciate the concern of the state administrations in the South West  but,  my point of departure is, the idea that gave birth to Amotekun. Amotekun is mischief laden. We do not know where this  concept of Amotekun is coming from, somehow the entire West is one on the issue if Amotekun. Our laws frowns at having hydra headed security outfits in this country particularly when such outfits appear to be operating counter to the mandate of the Nigerian police. We risk compounding the problem of security if Amotekun is allowed  to survive. We must not also forget that the Federal Government is working assiduously to introduce community policing and the preparation has reached advanced stage to get it to be operational.  It is also a notorious fact that the Federal Government is concluding arrangements with relevant security agencies to introduce community policing. Amotekun is in such a hurry so much so they have  beat the gun. They should go back to the starting line.