The northern and the southern leaders of the country are at the moment, divided over the constitution amendment process presently embarked upon by the Nigerian senate. LEADERSHIP Sunday reports that the deputy senate president, Ovie Omo-Agege,who is heading the fifth alteration committee to amend the 1999 constitution during his inaugural speech, said that apart from the several bills they were going to harmonise, the committee would also look at the report of the 2014 national conference that was headed by the former chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Idris Legbo Kutigi, and the Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai-led committee on restructuring. But the northern and the southern leaders are divided on the issue based on the demand of people from the regions. While the Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze is insisting that the 2014 national conference report should be adopted in solving the constitutional crisis, the Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), said their people want restructuring and rotational presidency to be part of the constitution review. But the northern socio-cultural group, Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), said the constitution review was unnecessary, insisting that Nigeria’s problem could be placed at the doorstep of distorted values and not restructuring. Secretary general of the ACF, Mr Anthony Sani, said there was nothing new about efforts by the national assembly to amend the constitution, adding that the north are not excited about it. “Even though there is nothing wrong to restructure in favour of devolution of power because politics is dynamics and governance is work in progress, I tend to think our problems have to do with our distorted values and how we do things than in the structures and forms of government,” Sani noted. He argued that the country had been restructured several times politically, geopolitically and economically but added that things were not just working. “Nigeria started with three regions under confederate arrangement and later moved to four regions and now has 36 states attained through gradual split from 12 states,19 states, 21 states and 30 states. “The country started with parliamentary system of government, went through military dictatorship which abolished the confederation in favour of unitary system, then followed by federalism which is a compromise between confederation with weak center and unitary system with very strong center. “The current federalism is a situation where the national government is balanced by appropriate state level power.Even the economy has gone through several remodeling with indigenisation tagged, mixed economy. “There was the International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s inspired Structural Adjustment Programs tagged SAP under the President Ibrahim Babangida’s military administration which sought to reduce government’s hold of the economy. “Nigeria also had President Olusegun Obasanjo’s privatisation which sold government holdings in the economy to the private sector that is expected to drive the economy and bring about reduction of poverty that comes with employment with many Nigerians still left in difficult situation. “The presidential system works in America, the parliamentary system is working well in Britain, while a combination of the two works successfully in France with Nigeria left still guessing. “America’s constitution is few pages, Britain does not have a written constitution, while Nigeria has a book in form of a constitution that is observed more in the breach. As to cost of government, America has about 25 ministers; Britain has about 17, while France has about 15 ministers, while Nigeria has a crowd called government. “In America, the vice president is the president of the senate. This is a way of reducing the  cost of governance. State capitalism works in China but Nigeria has  tried many structures and forms of government that include military dictatorship and many economic models and we are still here. The problems of Nigeria have more to do with collapse of national ideals and moral values that have affected the sense of what is right and what is evil. “Those who hanker for resource control and yet agitate for return to 1963 constitution feign ignorance of the fact that oil, gas and solid minerals have been on the exclusive list of all our constitutions “Those who now say that Nigeria should be restructured in such a way that each section be allowed to develop at its own pace are those who wish Nigerians should live as if they are in different continents. “And they hanker for such disregarding the fact that reduction of inequality is not only good economics, but good politics as well.I do not share the view that the problems have to do with our diversity, considering Somalia is one ethnic group and one religion, yet it has challenges. “Ethiopia has never been colonised, it has challenges.Those countries that are moving positively are those which have come to terms with the reality that it is very possible to make the most of their diversity by working hard to overcome what divide the people. “It is against these backdrops that we think our problems have to do more with our attitudes and how we do things than the structure, the form of government and economic models. “Yet this is not to suggest that the NASS cannot examine both exclusive and concurrent lists with a view to finding appropriate balance which would make the center strong enough to keep the nation united under one roof but not too strong as to tilt the nation towards unitary system,” Sani added. Also, the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has reacted to the proposed constitution amendments by the national assembly. The  group however cautioned the legislative body,arguing  that this step appears diversionary and capable of sending the wrong signals to Nigerians. This position was made known by the deputy national publicity secretary of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Chuks Ibegbu. According to the apex socio-cultural organisation, the national assembly should go back to the resolution of the 2014 national conference. The group highlighted that the conference report contained more than 600 resolutions that were begging for implementation and if strictly followed, could better the lots of Nigerians and capable of raising the hope and aspirations of the citizenry. It explained that the nation for now does not need a new constitution amendments and however insisted that what the country requires for now is the implementation of the reports of the conference. This according to them, would help in moving the nation to the next level and would go a long way in addressing the yearnings and aspirations of the citizenry. However, the immediate past national publicity secretary of PANDEFF, who is now the national coordinator, South- South Presidency 2023 and South South Elders Forum, His Highness Chief Anabs Sara-Igbe, said restructuring would be the answer. According to Sara-Igbe, the Niger Delta people believed in physical federalism, adding that the constitution amendment should be able to take care of restructuring that would ensure equity of purpose. “The regions or states should be able to be given opportunity to tap their resources and contribute a certain percentage to the central government.Office of the presidency should be allowed to rotate among the various regions so that all the regions should be made to have access to be in charge of instruments and machinery of government at the presidency level for the sake of equity, so that no region would feel cheated,” the PANDEF chieftain said.