Workers of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) yesterday took over the management of the Muritala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA) access gate from the Integrated Intelligent Imaging West Africa Limited (ICUBE), one year after expiration of its contract. The workers in their hundreds under the supervision of the four aviation unions besieged the access gate as early as 7 am Monday and took over the control of ticketing points from ICUBE managers. The workers after dislodging ICUBE staff, drafted some staff of the commercial department to man the gates. Speaking to journalists, secretary general of Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), Comrade Abdulrasaq Saidu who supervised the takeover, said management of access gate remained the sole responsibility of commercial department of FAAN. The labour leader, added that politicians have messed up the system through illegal concession of revenue points at the airports. Comrade Saidu said concession of the access gate was fraudulent without a review of the contract for more than five years now, just as he added that the traffic of the route has greatly increased since the last exercise was carried out. Saidu alleged that some individuals in FAAN and the aviation ministry have compromised over the access gate, saying that government was losing revenue from there. The ANAP scribe explained that following series of meetings held with the aviation minister and FAAN boss at different occasions, it was made known to them, that workers were going to take over the access gate and run it by FAAN commercial department to raise its revenue. Also speaking, the deputy national president of Air Transport, Comrade Sarah Rimdams said workers came to recover their revenue points to government as the contract with ICUBE expired last February. Rimdams said the company has been remitting N68 million monthly but there was need for upward review of the contract adding that commercial department of FAAN will ensure that they exceed the N68 million being remitted monthly by ICUBE. She disclosed that the access gate was being test run by FAAN to actually know how much can be generated monthly saying that it will definitely be more than the amount being remitted by the concessionaires. Reacting to the takeover, the manager of Integrated Intelligent Imaging West Africa (ICUBE) Mr Toluwaleke Abajingin told journalists that he was surprised to see workers and unions taking over the access gate in the early hours of Monday.