The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Bayelsa state gubernatorial candidate in the recently conducted election, Diri Douye and other stakeholders have stormed the premises of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Headquarters, seeking for the issuance of Certificate of Return (CoR). This is just as INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu has just concluded a meeting with the National Commissioners of the commission and is set to brief journalists by 11:am Friday. “The Commission will brief the media today at 11 am in the INEC Conference Hall. We apologise for the short notice,” INEC’s Director of Information, Voter Education and Gender issues, Barr Oluwole Osaze Uzzi, said. INEC said yesterday the people of Bayelsa State will know their governor before 12 midnight today. According to INEC, there is no need for panic over the expiration of the tenure of the current governor, Seriake Dickson, today, insisting that there won’t be constitutional crisis in the state. The Supreme Court on Thursday sacked the governor-elect of Bayelsa State, David Lyon and his Deputy, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremieoyo, over certificate issue. But INEC, while speaking to LEADERSHIP on who the certificate of return would be issued to, following the Supreme Court judgement, said they were still waiting for the court judgement. “We are still in a meeting. We’ve not receive the court judgement. We will want to receive the court judgement, analyse it before issuing a certificate of return to the winner,” INEC chairman’s spokesman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, said. He allayed the fear that there might be constitutional crisis over who takes over as the governor of the state since the incumbent’s tenure expires today. He said: “There is still time. We still have from now till 12 midnight of Friday. But there should not be cause for alarm. Once we have the court judgement, the commission will take a decision. “Between now and 12 midnight of Friday, every issue will be settled once we have the court judgement,” Oyekanmi added.