Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, would have finished his 2nd tenure in office and hand over to the governor-elect, Chief David Lyon. OSA OKHOMINA examines the last few days of the Restoration administration with last minute commissioning of projects. As would be expected, there is a flurry of activities marking the transition from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led administration of Governor Seriake Dickson to the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration of the Governor-elect, Chief David Lyon in Bayelsa State. Despite the pressure of compiling a detailed hand-over note to the incoming administration,  Dickson has in the last few weeks, engaged in the completion and commissioning of land mark projects built in the last eight years. The governor, according to his loyalists, will go down in history as one of the best performing governors in the country. They are of the view that the leadership of the present administration  defied all challenges to break new grounds in tackling developmental needs of the state. Critics of the administration are  however, quick to fault the flurry of activities by the present administration as projects that are hastily done and not properly completed. They hinged their criticism on the last minute show of desperation to prove that he has performed. Some reasons are adduced by the opposition for the rush and hurry with which the outgoing administration is embarking on commissioning and last minute work on some projects. They claimed that such “shoddy” projects are commissioned by the present administration to hide his alleged failures in office and claim the glory of “uncompleted” projects. Another school of thought however, commended that it is pragmatic and wise for Dickson to forge ahead, despite claims of underperformance, to forge ahead to commission his signature projects in education, health, infrastructure and roads. They  see it as a way of tying the hands of the incoming administration not to abandon his dream projects. According to the governor’s loyalists, the outgoing administration has also built over 83 of its 105 Primary Health Centers that are completed and ready for commissioning while the remaining number is over 80 percent completed. This claim as affirmed by the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Pabara Newton Igwele. He also disclosed that Bayelsa has taken the lead as the most responsive state for infant and maternal mortality in the South South and one of the best models in the entire country; a feat he said came as a result of the commitment of the Restoration Government of Governor Seriake Dickson to ensure that pregnant women have the best of care and deliver safely. “Commissioning of projects at the various stages of completion is a show of commitment by Governor Dickson to the development of the state. There are so many projects that were embarked upon under the Governor Dickson administration that many Bayelsans nod their heads that the Restoration administration has done well to change the face of the state.” According to the  Commissioner for Information, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, Dickson has shown uncommon doggedness in addressing educational backwardness of the state through free primary and post primary education. “Let me quickly say that in less than a month, this government that has done a lot to turn around the fortunes of our state will exit, and will handover. And this is the first government that will be handing over to another government. “I want to on behalf of the Restoration Government thank Bayelsans, most sincerely for their support, for their abiding faith in the Restoration Government. “You know sometimes we tend to forget, eight years is a long period and this government has defied all odds, all the challenges to remain firm, steadfast and faithful to our course, and by February 14, we would have reached the end of the road in terms of our service to Bayelsans. “I want to say here and now that the Restoration Government will go down in history as one administration that has achieved the most in all areas”, he said. Iworiso-Markson also highlighted the unequalled scholarship programme, infrastructural development and investments in the health sector as some of the achievements of the Dickson-led administration. “Let it be said here and now that posterity will be fair to Governor Dickson. Governor Dickson will go down in history as one of the best governors to have emerged in Nigeria’s democratic system since the advent of the present democratic dispensation. When all is said and done, this governor will be one governor that Bayelsans will be very proud to call their own. Bayelsans will miss Governor Dickson”. In the last few weeks, the governor has embarked on the attendance of convocations and matriculations of over five higher Institution of learning in the state. The State owned University, Niger Delta University Ammassoma, the Medical University located on Imgbi road, Africa,Toru Orua and  Bayelsa Polytechnic, Aleibiri in Ekeremor Local Government of the State. The governor, during this busy schedule of proof of performance in the state said the sacrifices and projects embarked upon stand him out as a leader who came prepared to serve his people. Dickson, who made this known during the maiden matriculation ceremony of 264 students at the Bayelsa State Polytechnic, Aleibiri, Ekeremor local government area, noted that posterity would  be fair to him in its judgement as one who paved the way for sustainable development through education. He explained that the Polytechnic was established in line with his administration’s vision of producing a critical mass of manpower required to drive the oil and gas industry and other sectors of the economy. Dickson, who stressed that the Polytechnic would ever remain dear to him, urged the management to strictly focus on technical oriented courses and research. “Most of the investments we have made as a government including the Bayelsa State Polytechnic is futuristic in nature. We are tackling the bigger issues that would expand the frontiers of development of our dear state. “One sure way to actualize this vision is by addressing educational challenges,  that’s why we have built several schools and provided scholarships. We will even give the last set of scholarships before I round off my service by February 14. “To ensure Sustainability, our programmes such as the Education Development Trust Fund and Higher Education Loan Scheme are all backed up by law. “People may not appreciate what we have done but I’m very sure that posterity will be fair in its judgement on my stewardship. I want the world to watch out for the Bayelsa children that we are training now because we have broken the jinx. If this Investments are sustained, we will have excess human capacity in every field of endeavour.” While congratulating the students, he urged them to abide by the rules and regulations of the institution, assuring that another round of scholarship would be offered before he leaves office. Konyefa Godwin, the State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, however stated that the projects embarked upon by the Dickson-led7 administration are spread across the eight local government areas (LGAs) of the state. He said that the projects included, roads, bridges and buildings, which were either completed or on-going, in both the coastal communities and the upland. The commissioner listed some of the completed projects to include: the State International Airport, Ecumenical Centre, building of Annex 3, 4, 5 and 6 secretariat complex, dualisation of Sani Abacha expressway and Azikoro road among others. Other completed projects are the new Governor and Deputy Governor’s offices, Diagnostic centre, House officers’ quarter at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Etegwe-Amasoma road, Governor’s Aide’s block, Ogbia-Nembe road and Igbogene carriageway. Some on-going projects according to Godwin included Niger-Delta University, Senate Building, Sagbama-Ekeremor road, University of Africa Administrative block, Yenagoa-Oproma road, among others. On the administration’s seventh anniversary fixed for Thursday, Feb. 14, the commissioner commended the achievement of the present government, especially for bringing development to the door steps of the people. In his submission, the State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Hon. Daniel Markson-Iworiso, stated that: “When all is said and done, mark my words, this governor will be one governor that Bayelsa will be very proud to call their own any day any time. “Bayelsans will miss Governor Dickson and that’s why for those of you who are quick to join the band wagon, to join the naysayers just because there’s a new government coming, to run down this administration and run down the person of His Excellency, you’re making a huge mistake. “You’re making a very big mistake, because governance is not a tea party. I know so because I am one who has been very privileged to work closely with this governor and I make bold to say that I will defend this government now and forever and I make bold to say that I will not regret one day in serving this government. “So, no matter what anybody says about this governor, it is their personal opinion and so they can go on and on and rant as much as they like on social media, but let me put it on record that the Restoration Government is one government that our children and our children yet unborn will be so proud to talk about for the rest of their days”, he said.