MOSES ORJIME writes on the intrigues over the controversies surrounding the authenticity of certificates belonging to the Bayelsa State deputy governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo and the former running mate to the APC governorship candidate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. Bayelsa State has been in the news for very interesting reasons lately. First, in a dramatic turn of events, the Supreme Court annulled the electoral mandate of governor-elect, Senator David Lyon of the All Progressives Congress (APC) on the grounds that his running mate, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo presented forged documents to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). While the rest of the polity was thrown into confusion, the feeling in Bayelsa was mixed. For supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), it’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri and his benefactor and former governor, Seriake Dickson, there was jubilation. On the other side of town in Yenogoa, Bayelsa State capital, protest raged. All Progressives Congress (APC) members and supporters of the David Lyon were angry over the judgement. For them, it was hard to reconcile the fact that their electoral victory which was regarded as popular, just slipped out of their hands. As legal experts argued over the constitutionality or otherwise of the judgement, the national leadership of APC and the PDP were locked in enchange of brickbats. While APC vowed to return to the apex court on the matter (which it eventually lost), PDP threatened to revisit judgements of the apex court on the presidential election and other states it lost to the APC. Still within the APC, blames and counter blames emerged over why the party leadership didn’t spot the certificate issue during the screening. For what it’s worth however, Lyon urged people not to blame his running mate for the development. What’s more, the Senate clarified that Senator Degi-Eremienyo’s membership of the upper chamber despite the certificate forgery which denied him a chance to become Bayelsa State deputy governor remains intact. Spokesman for the Senate, Godiya Akwashiki, said that Degi-Eremienyo’s place in the upper chamber was not under threat. Akwashiki explained, “The process of declaring somebody’s seat vacant is in three stages based on the provisions of the law. “It is either by death;  If his constituents demand his recall, or if any court of law, (tribunal,  appeal, or Supreme Court), ordered that INEC should withdraw their certificate of return. “In this situation,  the judgment did not say anything about his (Degi-Eremienyo’s) senatorial seat. “The judgment only addressed the issue of the Bayelsa State governorship election,” he said. However, Degi-Eremienyo, spoke in defense of his reputation, saying he did not forge any of his certificates. He said the justices of the Supreme Court assaulted his reputation with the ruling. Speaking with journalists in Abuja, Mr Degi-Eremienyo lamented that the apex court judgement had left him greatly traumatised and in distress. He asked the police to vet his credentials. “Let me state that some of my primary school teachers are still alive: Chief Eredogiyo Watson, Chief Allen Obebe-Orukari and Susan Otiotio. “Let me also state in clear and graphic terms that I attended two secondary schools. “First, Nyemoni Grammar School, Abonnema, Rivers State where some of my classmates were Harrison Braide, Tombo Douglas, Ferdinand Amabebe, Professor Owunari Georgewill, Justice Biobele Georgewill, Chief David Briggs and Alpheus Otta and some of my teachers were Mr Wamarte and Mrs Humbly, Mr Frank etc. “All my academic certificates are in the public domain. Whether they are genuine or forged are verifiable matters,” he explained. If the certificates exist and have not been altered in any manner, it would mean they are genuine, he said. “The next enquiry would then be if the names appearing thereon belong to me or belong to some other persons. If no other persons can be found who claim the names in the certificates then they are mine. “Judges including justices of the Supreme Court are free to request law enforcement agencies to investigate persons who appear before them as to the commission or otherwise of crimes.” The embattled ex-deputy governor further noted that all the educational qualifications he presented to the INEC to aid his constitutional qualification were acquired by him personally from institutions Nigeria which are still in existence till date. The records are verifiable anytime and any day here in Nigeria, he added. However, while the APC reeled over their fate, a fresh certificate saga emerged. This time it was against the deputy governor of Bayelsa State, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo. The matter came to the fore when an Abuja Area Court in Lugbe ordered the State Security Service (SSS) to investigate an allegation that the deputy governor forged a NYSC certificate. The case emerged barely days after  Ewhrudjakpo was sworn in alongside Governor Douye Diri. An APC official in Bayelsa State, Benjamin Youdiowei, had last year approached the court to seek redress over allegation that Ewhrudjakpo presented to INEC a forged NYSC Exemption Certificate with number 139708 and dated February 2, 1998. He also alleged that the deputy governor used the allegedly forged document as part of his credentials. On November 27, 2019, the judge presiding over the case, Abubakar Sadiq, issued a bench warrant for the arrest of Mr Ewhrudjakpo, following his absence from the court for the day’s proceedings. During a court session, Mr Youdowei’s lawyer, Seidu Jibrin, brought to the notice of the judge that the Wuye Police Division, which was earlier asked by the court to carry out further investigation on the matter, had transferred the case to the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Monitoring Unit. Responding, Justice Sadiq, said that the police ought to have reported back to the court if the Wuye Division was unable to handle the case before taking the unilateral decision of transferring the case to the IGP monitoring unit. The judge terminated his earlier order directing the police to investigate the case. He made a new order that the SSS carry out the investigation. “We hereby terminate the order of investigation given to the police in respect of this matter and order the DSS to investigate it,” he ruled. Despite being sworn in and under the cover of immunity, the deputy governor was mindful of the impact of such an allegation. The deputy governor at a conference in Abuja explained that he could not have forged his certificate because the NYSC issued him a fresh certificate after he applied for the correction on his name to effected. Speaking through his counsel, Clement Kekemeke, Ewhrudjakpo, who noted that there was an error in his NYSC Exemption Certificate, noted that the NYSC rectified the error and issued a new certificate to him after he drew the attention of the Corps to the error on his name. While he noted that the alleged forgery against him was already in public domain even before he was nominated as running mate to the newly inaugurated governor of the state, Senator Duoye Diri in the 2019 governorship poll, he however stated that the Grade A Court lacks the jurisdiction to hear a forgery case. He said: “Sometimes in 2019 preparatory to the National Assembly elections, and specifically that of Bayelsa West Senatorial District, where Senator Ewrudjakpo represented until he was sworn in as deputy governor; one Ibisene Afamkolo took him to the Federal High Court and commenced a suit by way of originating summons accusing him of presenting a forged NYSC Exemption Certificate. “While dealing with that matter, being a pre-election matter; at a point, it became status barred having exceeded the period of 180 days within which it ought to have been dispensed with by virtue of the provision of the 1999 Constitution. “The next thing that followed was that truly on the certificate presented to INEC by my client in his form CS001, which is the nomination form, his surname was misspelt. Instead of Ewhrudjakpo, the name was misspelt as Ewhrudjakpa. “After the matter was struck out and even though my client had earlier applied for the correction of this misspelt name, he was further bored by that matter by reapplying again for the issuance of a new certificate. “He applied again, drawing the attention of the NYSC to the error on his surname and seeking a re-issuance of a correct certificate. Consequently, the NYSC responded and reissued a fresh certificate correcting our client’s name, reflecting the surname now as Ewhrudjakpo, being the issuing authority that has the loci standi to replace an erroneously issued certificate. That put the matter to rest.” Kekemeka, who displayed court papers and documents including the fresh certificate issued by the NYSC to replace the old one, said his client was amazed when the matter resurfaced again much to the shock of those knew the real position of the matter. He continued: “While my client was nominated to run for the office of the deputy governor of Bayelsa State; One Benjamin Youdiowei (A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC) initiated a direct complain at the Grade 1 Area Court, Lugbe, Federal Capital Territory, FCT, accusing our client of presenting a forged NYSC Exemption Certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. Our contention therein is that that matter is still subjudice and I won’t go into the merits or otherwise of the matter for want of care. “But our concern was that by the Area Court amendment law, the Area Court does not even have jurisdiction over criminal matters. To have taken a pre-election matter which had become status barred to a Grade 1 Area Court was an abuse of court process and the court couldn’t have acted on it. “Ironically, the Area Court judge proceeded to issue a bench warrant against our client and directed the Wuye Police Station to arrest him, then a Senator and prosecute him for forgery of NYSC Exemption Certificate. Worried by this development, our client took up a judicial review before the FCT High Court before His Lordship, Honourable Justice Belgore seeking that the proceedings at Grade One Area Court be brought to the FCT High Court for the purpose of quashing because the court lacked the jurisdiction to sit on that kind of matter.” He stressed that those pressing for criminal prosecution of the deputy governor are in flagrant breach of Section 308 which confers immunity on him. He cautioned those “playing politics with an issue that the NYSC has since laid to rest,” to desist from doing so. He added that because Senator Degi Biobarakumo, running mate to David Lyon, caused the annulment of their mandate on the account of parading multiple identities, does not mean same fate should be visited on Ewhrudjakpo. But the matter is far from over as the APC alleged days after that it has uncovered plot by Ewhrudjakpo and his party, PDP, to swap the alleged forged NYSC certificates presented to INEC for the Senate and deputy governorship positions. APC’s deputy national publicity secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, who stated this said unknown to Ewhrudjakpo and his party, the APC had obtained the certified true copies of the allegedly forged NYSC certificates. Nabena in a statement warned the leadership and all officials of the INEC and NYSC not to allow themselves to be used to swap the alleged forged certificates. It remains unclear how far the case will go even though the deputy governor now enjoys immunity.