President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the latest round of attacks on farmers by bandits in Damkal and Tsanwa villages in Batsari local government area of Katsina State, saying that the killings done in the name of revenge were unacceptable. Reacting to the incidents where many homesteads were razed and several people killed at weekend, the president warned that “no one in the country has a right to take the law into his or her hands by the way of self-help or revenge. Local communities that catch bandits should hand the suspects over to law enforcement authorities instead of meting out capital punishment, leading to a cycle of revenge and counter revenge.” Buhari, in a statement issued by the presidency, yesterday, urged community leaders and the local authorities to continue their efforts in partnership with law enforcement agencies in the handling of the surrendering of bandits to ensure peace between farmers and herders. “The authorities must be allowed to investigate and deal with any breach that occurs. There is no place for violence in a decent society,” he said. The president prayed that God would comfort families that lost their loved ones in the attacks and for the repose of the souls of the victims. Also yesterday, the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, said that the National Assembly would continue to work with President Buhari to find lasting solutions to the current insecurity in the country. Lawan stated this at Malumfashi in Katsina State, where he graced the Constituency Empowerment Programme sponsored by Senator Bello Mandiya for Funtua Senatorial District. He commiserated with the people of Katsina over the recent deadly attacks by bandits. In a statement issued by his special assistant, Press, Ezrel Tabiowo, the Senate president said: ”I want to assure you that we are going to continue to work with President Muhammadu Buhari till we are able to find lasting solutions to this problem of insecurity in our country. ”We will also ensure that government provides infrastructure across the country that make life meaningful for Nigerians,” Lawan said. The occasion, which attracted a large crowd of All Progressives Congress (APC) faithful, was attended by Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State. Lawan applauded Senator Mandiya for empowering his constituents and assured him of the Senate support. He said: ”Today, we are supporting a young man, who has been supported by the people of Funtua zone. Senator Bello Mandiya has been a very loyal, committed, and reliable Senator. ”I want to inform you, the senatorial district, that you have found a worthy successor to Senator Abu Ibrahim in Senator Mandiya. ”They say the young shall grow. This young senator will grow very rapidly because he has very good hands taking care of him. ”For me, I remain committed to making sure Senator Bello Mandiya succeeds and he grows and mature into a great senator,” Lawan said.  The Senate president said that the constituency project is badly misconstrued by many. ”This (constituency project) is what we call the empowerment of ordinary Nigerians that otherwise wouldn’t have been remembered when you’re talking about the national budget. ”But because members of the National Assembly are so close to the ordinary Nigerians, we try to look for those issues that make a difference in their individual and collective lives. ”So for those who would today receive the motorcycles, the water pumps for irrigation and other items, I want to congratulate you and assure you that this is just the beginning of new things,” Lawan said.    