Allegation by the Bayelsa State deputy governor, Rear Admiral John Jonah, that his guest house within the Government House is being looted is causing upsets in the state barely 24 hours to the incoming administration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and governor-elect, Chief David Lyon. OSA OKHOMINA writes With less than 24 hours to the swearing in of Chief David Lyon as governor of Bayelsa State, the political tempo of the state in the last few days has heated over an alleged looting of  properties from the Bayelsa Government House also known as the Creek Haven. The controversy which has become a major test for the credibility of the administration of Governor Seriake Dickson, has however gained traction and sparked a base of contention between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state. Recall that Lyon, the governor-elect and candidate of APC in the November 16, 2019 governorship election defeated Senator Douye Diri of the PDP who was Dickson’s choice of successor. However, the uproar started with a seemingly benign statement by the Bayelsa Deputy Governor, Rear Admiral John Jonah on the state of his guest house within the Government House which drew the ire of Governor Dickson andsparked outrage from APC supporters in the state. Jonah, who was out of the state during the last governorship election due to a major life threatening surgical operation abroad, declared that some unidentified persons looted property, including, a generator, electronic equipment, furniture, air conditioners and other sundry items in the deputy governor’s guest house in Creek Haven,Yenagoa. The statement signed by Ebi Evinson, the senior special assistant on media to the deputy governor, stated that, “For the avoidance of doubt, the Office of the Deputy Governor wishes to categorically state that it has not directed anybody to remove anything from the Deputy Governor’s Guest House. As a matter of fact, following the crises in Brass Local Government Area sometime last year, the Deputy Governor voluntarily offered part of the facility for use by the Chairman of Brass Local Government Council, Hon. Victor Isaiah, who is still occupying the place.” The statement continued, “It is also pertinent to state that Government House Security should up its game by apprehending the culprits who looted the Guest House at this last hour of the Restoration administration. Finally, we also wish to state that for this unfortunate incident to occur at the twilight of his service to Bayelsans, is a calculated attempt to tarnish the good image and reputation of the Deputy Governor, Retired Rear Admiral Gboribiogha John Jonah which he has painstakingly labored to maintain while in office.” However an APC chieftain who pleaded anonymity didn’t only echo the claims by the deputy governor, but alleged that all the lodges in the Government House were being looted. According to him, ”Government House is being looted daily and those looting are doing so without any confrontation by security agencies. I use this medium to call on the DSS, Commissioner of police and the Nigerian army state chiefs to do the needful and fast.” Another APC chieftain and former militant leader in Bayelsa State, Comrade Paul Eris popularly known as General Ogunboss, said, “We started the alarm on the stealing of government properties in Government  House. Today, it has taken another dimension, this is how bad life is, when an extreme poor man is made king, the kings palace becomes an hustling ground for all kinds of people.” “I earlier raised an alarm of the existence of three untouched containers that were shifted from the home of the Former SUBEB Chairman, Mr. Walter Liverpool’s residence, “when the king developed a struggle, subjects will nothing to do than to follow,” he claimed. But when contacted, a source in Dickson’s camp denied the allegation but said they won’t engage the governor over the issue because it’s a lie. However the allegation by the deputy governor didn’t come to watchers of the politics in Bayelsa State as a surprise because he had fallen out with Dickson ahead of the governorship poll. The deputy governor who had intention of succeeding Dickson has a rough patch with the governor who was backing the eventual governorship candidate, Diri. The friction between Dickson and his deputy, Jonah, had almost led to the latters impeachment by the state assembly. But while Dickson’s administration kept mum over Jonah’s allegation of looting of the government house, a group, the Bayelsa Youths for Good Governance and Development  dismissed the allegation. They said the allegation raised by the deputy governor is ‘political motivated’ and a deliberate plot to discredit Dickson’s achievement in the last eight years. According to the group, though the alleged looting should have been reported to the various security apparatus within the Government House for arrest and investigation, the outburst of the deputy governor is a deliberate act to trade the reputation of the Dickson administration for a shot at the Bayelsa East Senatorial seat. The group in a statement signed by Comrade George Amai, described Jonah’s action as a clear case of political horse trading to occupy Bayelsa East Senatorial seat which will be vacant when the Deputy Governor-elect, Senator Degi Is sworn-in on February 14. According to the group, ‘’We have on good authority that he is doing this in order to become the Bayelsa East Senator on the platform of the PDP. Jonah has been long on talk with Chief Timipre Sylva. Jonah’s body is PDP while his soul is of the APC. ‘’These systematic actions of the Deputy Governor started before the election when he lost the PDP ticket. He conveniently fell sick and absent himself from the election campaigns. He also directed his younger brother, Gabriel Jonah, to ensure that his controlled area of Nembe-Ogbolomabiri is handed to the APC. This led to an attack on the PDP campaign train where over 20 persons were murdered in cold blood. “We conspired his action at raising alarm over alleged looting as foolish, unreasonable, and cowardly. As a former security high ranking officer, he should have known what to do when such matters are brought to his notice. He should have used the instrumentality of Government or security apparatus to nip the alleged looting in the bud. It is shameful of the former security chief.’ “It is clear that his outburst was meant to embarrassing the system. As a former security chief and a man that has dined with government for eight years, he has shown his lack of tact and loyalty. He has thrown his years of purported military excellence into the abyss of political greed and treachery.” The group however called on the deputy governor to, as a matter of urgency, apologise to his boss, Dickson, and the ruling PDP in the state for his open display of betrayal. Jonah has however not apologized nor withdraw his allegation. But while the matter raged, another drama was playing out over the same issue. Brass local government chairman’s alleged complicity The executive chairman of Brass Local Government Area, Hon. Victor Inodunimi Isaiah, whose name was mentioned in the statement issued by Jonah is caught in the web of the raging controversy. Isaiah, who became the  local government chairman on the loyalty to Dickson was not ready to add the burden of complicity in the looting of Government House on his plate. He reacted with discontentment the news making the rounds and alarm raised by the Bayelsa State deputy Governor, Retired Rear Admiral Gboribiogha John Jonah over an alleged unprecedented looting of government properties at the deputy governor’s guest house. Hon. Victor Inodunimi Isaiah, responding to a statement by Ebi Evinson to the deputy governor, which mentioned that he occupies part of the facility, said he has nothing to do with the purported looting in view of the fact that he left the guest house in November 2019 and everything was intact when he moved, a fact he said the caretaker and house keepers are conscious. The Brass council boss expressing worry over the report, which he said is a calculated attempt to brand him a “thief,” disclosed that he wasn’t the only inhabitant of the government facility and in amazement that the media officer of the deputy governor find it conveniently easy to call him out over the ransacking. Asserting his innocence on the matter, he stated that those saddled with the responsibility of keeping the house which included the caretaker and some staff of the deputy governor’s office, have spare keys to the apartments and seldom visit to check on the state of the property, saying they should be quizzed. Speaking further, he said, he is grateful to the deputy governor for giving him accommodation in troubled times, while adding that, as a government/public official, he understands that taking away government property illegally is really a bad development in the annals of public accountability and wouldn’t indulge in such act for any reason. He however call on the security operatives to carry out a thorough investigation with a view to fishing out the perpetrators so as to put the record straight. But the APC chairman in Brass Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, Hon Baribote T Baribote, has broken the silence and berated Isaiah over the alleged stealing of interiors at the deputy governor’s official resident. Baribote said he is not surprised over Isaiah involvement in this saga. He alleged that the local government boss was complicit in the matter. The APC chairman further called for Isaiah to resign just as he charged the Legislative arm of the council to work on his impeachment immediately. Meanwhile, The Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) in the state has written what it called “a save-our-soul” letter to the governor-elect, Lyon over alleged gross misconduct and diversion of funds by of some top principals of local government councils in the state. They asked the incoming administration to probe the financial transactions of principal officers of all councils in the state. NULGE President in the state, Comrade Akpos Ekeigha, told newsmen in Yenagoa, that the call for a detailed audit of local government accounts in the state would unravel why salaries of local government workers are not paid as well as the failure to pay pensioners. He accused the principal officers of local government councils of alleged involvement of illegal deductions from workers’ salaries. On the alleged inauguration of an Interim Management Committee purportedly headed by Noel Itade, Ekeigha said a suit filed against the present executive of the union on tenure elongation at the National industrial Court, Owerri division is still pending.. He however said the setting up a parallel NULGE team by the principal officers of the local councils is illegal and unconstitutional. According Ekeigha, “Despite the fact that every member of the NULGE in the 774 local Government councils of the country are bound by the provision of NULGE 2016 constitution as amended with a constitution of more than 40 years, the NULGE is not a banana republic where impunity flourishes.” “The coup of the G8 Principal Officers is in total disregard to the NULGE constitution. That the action of the principal officers in attempting to overthrow the constitutional organs of the union at their levels is most shameful and condemnable. Their action bring serious question of competence and ability to continue in their capacity as principal officers of the G8 councils,” he said.