Nigerian menswear brand cloths by OGB is certainly one every modish man should consider. In this interview with ADENIYI ADUNOLA and MILLICENT AREBUN ONUOHA, the CEO of the brand Ndubisi OGB Akwiwu decries the terrible state of power supply in the state and the corresponding drain on the financial resources of entrepreneurs among other matters Synopsis My name is Ndubuisi popularly known as Ogbona which is a pet name that lead to my brand been called OGB. I am a trained urban and regional planner from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife with a diploma in estate management. After a brief stint in the real estate business, I made the decision to my passion for sewing into a profession. Sewing can be said to be in my veins as I come from a family of tailors which traces to two generations way back. My grandfather was at one time a widely sought after tailor in Port-Harcourt before he diverted into other business. While in the real estate business I was already doing what I love best, which was sewing. Before I knew it, I was making more income from sewing than my paid employment, which led to my decision to focus on sewing fully. Working actually was just to express my passion for dressing up and going out in the morning. Like the traditional parents will always says ‘get some work experience so that you can have value for your time and you will know how to charge for your time’. I haven’t regretted my decision ever.  What’s the key attraction that made you focus on tailoring? I think at a time, it was the passion because I was more known for someone who make clothes and it’s little spiritual at the same time. When they say the work of your hands will make you stand before kings, it is the literal truth. I discovered that the people I met from the work that I did, gave me a little more fulfilment than regular work in the days. That’s fulfilling my passion. I never despise the days of little beginning for it’s the vehicle for untold opportunities. About the OGB brandWe started as a shirt company and transformed into fashion brand catering to all the fashion and style needs of our clients. From bespoke shirts to African wears we serve the needs of the upwardly mobile man who pays a little more attention to his clothing and its details than others. Seeing that there is a gap in tailoring in Nigeria where people do not pay attention to certain things, we took advantage and carved a niche for ourselves. It is something I noticed even as a young man, before I took up my training by working with a cousin of mine who is also a big fashion brand in Nigeria. For instance, most people have issues with their trousers and that cut my interests, I wanted to find out why. I discovered that western individuals have different body shape from the African man, hence the reason why the African male always have issues with their off-the-rack attires. Correctly identifying the problem helped me hone my skills.  Formal training Yes I had some formal training, interning and mentorship despite the fact that sewing came to me naturally. Firstly from my cousin who already had an established fashion business or brand. Currently I am looking into short courses online to improve my skills and keep abreast of the current trend in tailoring globally.  Financing and early days’ challenges Starting out after quitting paid employment was scary. I had my resignation letter in my phone for over a year before I turned it in. I shared my fears with my dad whose advice was ‘if it’s not paying the bills it’s not worth it.  With those words, I mounted up courage. The truth is, determination and hard work pay. Starting out it gave me more joy seeing that I impacted lives. I employed people that at the end of the month have the satisfaction of being paid. I never enjoy getting a salary at the end of the month. Coming from a family of entrepreneurs, I even just felt that it’s the right thing to do. At some point, getting a salary wasn’t fulfilling. In terms of financing, for every business, as long as you have your trade, and craft, capital will not really be a challenge. I already had customers so from the money we generated from the business we were able to set up, get more machine, hire more people.  I was also lucky enough to have people who were there for me at the time plus I had my little saving from my time in paid employment. In spite of my experience so far, we still need the wide kinds of financing to able to go upscale to a different level where we can do heavy production and be able to mass produce to satisfy the nation and get involved in big project. We have gotten involved in big production, mass production projects for certain multinational companies in Nigeria which has made us think bigger. We want to be able to partner with other companies and have world class production plants that can satisfy these things. Therefore, though in the beginning financing wasn’t a challenge, it is now because we are trying to upscale.  How have you been able to leverage technology to promote your clothing? We started clothing when it wasn’t exactly the most glamorous thing to do. But with the advent of technology and internet the contrary is now the case. Being savvy we embrace technology. With the advent of internet now, it’s only discerning that we engage people with the things that we do online in order to reach zillions with just a click. It has opened doors which we never imagined or realized before. We have an interactive website, where anyone can reach us or see our works. We are also on Instagram and twitter. Most of the things that we do we post out on our platforms. We also go for shows out of the country, we have participated in fashion shows and exhibitions. But because of my technical involvement in the day to day running of business I have not been able to reach out as much as I should. To be honest, I think we have more traction on social media like Facebook and Instagram. I can say that social media has proliferated the fashion business in Nigeria.  Access to funding in Nigeria and beyond We are looking to get projects which we would be able to keep this factory going, and we are currently seeking financial assistance from banks, for instance the Bank of Industry. That’s where we are planning to go to, even though we have had people approached us privately with investment offers and partnership. Tailoring is a business which requires patience. If you don’t really understand it, you don’t really want to go into partnership with someone who is not patient, so you don’t start looking for their money before time. They might not be able to understand how long it took you to build this. It’s basic organic growth to be able to get to where you want to go to because, if you put on everything at the same time, you might be distracted or lift the focus on your work and in order to focus on trying to pay your debt, which in turn may lead to losing your creativity. Basically, we would have to work with the banks.  Opinion on the boom of the fashion industry in Nigeria I think what it is, is almost like a cycle that goes on. The days of the western brands and clothing predominance have gone. People are looking within and realising that we too can do these here. It’s all about perception and branding. It’s more evident that you will feel better patronizing a Nigerian who you know rather than patronizing foreign brands. First, we are more cost effective, and maybe the cost of foreign exchange has made people want to look inward. There is no way you can’t look at Nigeria fashion, because we are fashionable. But the government needs to support the craft and support the trade because the expertise is limited.  Role of government in the future of fashion If I have 24 hours electricity supply, I will be probably be $2000 richer every month. This is one major role the government can play to truly support the industry. If people would have electricity, they would be able to have a conducive working environment for major economic advancement and growth. The amount of money spent generating our private electricity can really do a whole lot in improving our system. The government should see that people have access to loans or equipment. There should be an intervention like they have for other sectors. Government should be able to set up technical institutions, because at this time there is actually no where you can go and employ tailors. That’s a big gap, and for the industry to go to where it is supposed to, it needs to be more institutionally set up with formalized training. If we are able to do that, we should have more tailors to satisfy the demand and needs of the nation and beyond. Most of the institutions that are available now are owned by private individuals who are also been trained by people who don’t have the right qualifications or don’t know the trade. It’s a big education gap and only the government that can identify fill it.  Are you a member of the Fashion Designers Association of Nigeria? I haven’t join FADAN yet, I have not had a lot of time to have engage in a lot of networking as regards FADAN. It seems more political than promotional.  Future projects We are working on been a global brand to be reckoned with We want to be a household name all over the world. Our passion still lies in Nigeria, though. We hope that in the next five years the clothes by OGB brands will be accessed in our stores both online, mobile and landed everywhere in the world. Presently we have the luxury lines which are the purple labels and we have the orange line which is the everyday OGB which is affordable for every man. So in the next five years we hope that we would have a chain of stores where people would be able to have OGB experience aside been in the studio where we are presently.  