Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Mohammad Bello has promised the support of the FCT administration for the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) initiated backward integration policy on local production of dairy products. The Minister made the promise yesterday when CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele led a delegation of major livestock stakeholders on a courtesy visit to his office in Abuja. The delegation was in his office to seek the minister’s intervention to fast-track the allocation of land with titles to three companies that have requested for land to established dairy processing plants in the FCT. The companies are WAMCO Friesland Campina Plc, Nestle Plc and L&Z. The Minister also disclosed that there are four grazing areas in FCT master plan. “Just for perspective the master plan of the capital territory envisages four grazing areas that are meant to serve as areas that will cater for herders and also all the economic value chain that has to go with them,” Mallam Bello said, adding that the grazing reserves were brought in to “cater for them because as you know FCT is in the north central zone; it happens to be a major north south route for cattle from time immemorial and also it’s well endowed with good foliage and vegetation.” According to the FCT Minister, the grazing reserves are in Bwari which is about 9000 hectares, Karshi: 6000 hectares, the third one is in Gwagwalada with about 9500 hectares while the fourth one is in an area called Hubuchi with 8,985 hectares. “We are talking of a total of about 33000,” he added. He assured that the FCDA will make some expanse of land available for the establishment of the processing factories. Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Emefiele said the resolve to locate the plants in FCT is born out of the fact that the nation’s capital offers a unique environment for industrialization and also easy access to raw materials from the entire North-Central zone of the country. “The establishment of these companies in the FCT will drive industrialization, stimulate local production of milk and hence development of the local dairy sector, boost employment generation, facilitate linkages along the dairy sector in Nigeria and ultimately Conserve enormous foreign exchange that would be required for importation,” Emefiele said. According to Emefiele, Nestle Plc and Friesland Campina Plc have signified interest to establish Milk processing factories in the FCT and the CBN is ready to work with them to actualize the deliverable of the projects. “We therefore request you to please assist in the allocation of land in FCT expeditiously,” he pleaded. The FCT Minister, who said land will be made available to them within the next three weeks, however said that some of the anticipated lands do not have road access. He therefore solicited for funding support from the CBN for the construction of about 3km roads to open up or link the areas to nearest highways for easy access and movement of people and goods. Also, Mr. Bello urged the CBN to prepare a price stabilisation mechanism to enable farmers under the CBN-owned Anchor Borrowers’ Programme to have value for their products. He said in that situation, farmers can be assured of regular price for their produce irrespective of the prevailing market dictates.