Wife of Kebbi State Governor and founder of MedicAid Cancer Foundation, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu has commended the coalition of Nigeria Muslim Women, organisers of this year’s World Hijab Day 2020, with a theme – ‘Unity in Diversity.’ She said the event is an apparatus to show how important it is to highlight the dignity that is inherent in observing the Hijab by Muslim women across the world. Dr. Bagudu, who served as a special guest at the event, said that she has been supporting the event by initiating the commemoration of World Hijab Day, since her husband became governor of Kebbi State. “I am actually delighted to attend the National commemoration of the World Hijab Day for the first time ever this year as I am usually in Kebbi. “Whilst the women of Kebbi are also marking the day, I am pleased to be here”, she said. Dr. Zainab Bagudu, who bagged the titled of ‘Khadimatud-deen’ (custodian of religious activities), a title bestowed on her by the National Women Daawah in recognition of her contribution to furthering the cause of Islam, has emphasised the importance of supporting women groups in Islam. She added that women are the most important part of the community, who play vital roles in different aspects of development. She encouraged all schools to allow the use of hijab as it is a fundamental human right to dress as one pleases. Also speaking the special of guest of honour, wife of the President, Hajiya Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by the Abuja former Federation of Muslim Women Association of Nigeria (FOMWAN) chairperson, Hajiya Maryam Abdullahi, said that it is very important for all Muslim Ummah to support the course of Hijab. She reiterated the need for collective national prayers, for the leaders of the country to excel in all their primary obligations. Special dignitaries who graced the occasion that took place at the national mosque Abuja, include Nigeria’s First Lady Hajiya Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by the Abuja former FOMWAN scribe, Wife of former Vice President Hajiya Amina Namadi Sambo, Director General of NTA, represented by the General Manager, NTA Abuja, Fatima Abbas Hassan and so many other Muslim women groups. It will be recalled that World Hijab Day was first introduced on February 1, 2013 by Nazma Khan, a Bangladeshi Muslimah in New York and more than 140 countries, including Nigeria have been using the platform for Hijab advocacy, calling on governments to end the increasing assault on Muslim girls in their various schools.