Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello has banned traditional rulers across the 21 local government areas of the state from awarding chieftaincy or traditional titles to anybody without approval of the state government. The governor premised his decision on the growing land and chieftaincy crises that arise from such award of titles in the state, saying that these have caused serious insecurity concern, hence the need to stem the tide. The state commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Barr Salami Ozigi who represented the governor stated this yesterday in Lokoja during a meeting with the traditional council and local government administrators. He said, “No traditional ruler must take any step to create any chiefdom without the notice or authority of the state government. “No traditional institutions must create or crown any chief or district head either temporarily or permanently without government authority. “The creation of such chiefs and head by traditional rulers has caused a lot of crises in the state. Majority of the insecurity witnessed in the state, and 70 percent of legal matters against the state government were caused by chieftaincy and land crises. “Any undue appointments or creation of traditional head without recourse to the government will be dealt with, there will be consequences; both the appointed and the traditional ruler that made such appointments will be not be spared.” Ozigi said the decision or order of the state government was not to undermine the traditional institutions, adding that “Crime and criminality have left the local area and moved to the highways because of government efforts, what is left in the rural areas are chieftaincy crises”. He continued, “We are asking you to make sacrifice for peace. The state government is spending heavily to tackle insecurity. When you create such positions and crises engulfed, then the state government will now be running around to settle it. The money used to curb such crises would have been used to handle other projects. “We have to be proactive and curb future occurrences. We are not doing this to withhold or reduce the power of traditional institutions but to prevent such crises even before it arise.” Ozigi further revealed that the state government has taken action to address all conflicts, even those in court. This is just as he promised to make priority the welfare of the traditional institutions. Responding, the Attah Igala, HRM Ameh Oboni (11) urged the state government to look into the land and traditional laws operative in the state. He said that it was created without the involvement of the traditional institutions. “The state government must look at the gazette used for traditional institutions. There is need to amend the foundation. The structure was not good, that is why the house is shaking. “Presently, the traditional rulers are finding it difficult to operate between the traditional law and modern law. There is need to review the law. All is not well with the gazette used for traditional institutions in the state,” he said.