Joy Malmicit Dalung, an undergraduate of National Open University, hails from Langtang South, local government area of Plateau State. She is Tarok by ethnic origin. She was born to the family of Mr and Mrs Solomon Selcap Dalung on December 25th, 1993. She started her educational career at Amina Memorial College, Lafia, to Reality Private School and later proceeded to Plastabs Comprehensive College and Akiluwa Secondary School, Bokkos, Plateau State for secondary education. She has a diploma in Mass Communication from Plateau State Polytechnic. She has been in business for over a decade. BACKGROUND My name is Joy Malmicit Dalung. I am from Langtang South local government area of Plateau State and of Tarok ethnic group. I was born into the family of Mr and Mrs Solomon Selcap Dalung on December 25th, 1993 in Lafia, Nasarawa State. I am from a family of seven and the fourth child of my parents. I had my nursery education at Amina Memorial College, Lafia, and from there, I was transferred to Reality Private School in Jos, due to the nature of my mother’s job. I got my first school-leaving certificate at the same school. Later, I went to Plastabs Comprehensive College and Akiluwa Secondary School, Bokkos, Plateau State. After secondary education, I proceeded to Plateau State Polytechnic to obtain a diploma in mass communication in 2011/2012 and graduated in 2014. I’m currently running a degree in English Language at National Open University. GROWING UP I grew up in a polygamous home and it was not an easy experience but I thank God because I had the love, support and care I needed to succeed. My success story will not be complete without my supportive mother; she has been my adviser, cheerleader and critic. My father, on the other hand, taught me to be strong, brave, and I remain grateful to God and my parents. THE BUSINESS Bris and Pharez Enterprise started out like a dream, because as at 2008, I patronised a man who was into the making and sale of beads in Jos, Terminus market. On a faithful day, I went to buy some beads as usual and he engaged me in a chat and asked if I would like to sell jewelries so that he would give me on credit. I replied in the affirmative, asking if he trusted me enough to give me and he said, yes. On the same day, he gave me jewelries worth N10, 000 and I went straight to my mother’s office, told her of my encounter, showed her the goods and she was happy. Immediately, she introduced me to some colleagues who bought and paid in cash while others paid the following day. I was excited with the outcome and without any delay; I paid the marketer for his goods and kept my interest. He was impressed and gave me more to sell off. Months later, business improved and I stopped ordering on credit. I later decided to merge it with second-hand wears till I gained admission into the polytechnic. During this period, my mother was ill and we could not afford certain privileges, so I had to use part of the proceeds of the business to buy books and meet other needs. I eventually settled in school and added the sale of shoes, bags, and wears to the business. I, then, began marketing to friends and students who resided in the school and its environs. I registered for tailoring after diploma for a year and half, because I noticed clothes that could be made easily were expensive on Instagram. Though, the materials were hard to find in Jos, I started ordering from other states. As business evolved, in 2016, I opened my first boutique at Satellite market, and my mother supported me with N100, 000, so, I travelled down to Lagos to stock the boutique. Few years later, I travelled to Gombe State for a visit. On getting there, I discovered that they lacked standard salons, and so I travelled to Lagos, bought all I needed for a salon business and paid for a place on April 21st, 2018. I also have four employees who assist in running the business and business has been good. I am also a makeup artist and hairstylist. WHO TAUGHT YOU? I got the business sense, marketing skills and drive from marketers at the Jos, Terminus market and I still look up to them. I will also say, it is innate because every day, I wake up with new ideas, how to develop and grow them but inadequate capital sets the limit. MENTOR (S) I have always admired business mogul, Aliko Dangote, for his business drive and success. He has been and still is, a source of motivation to me and I see myself making great impacts in the Nigerian economy someday. WHAT DIFFERENTIATES YOU FROM COMPETITORS? I pay attention to details; I am always up-to-date with trends. My customers enjoy good service delivery and we engage in doorstep delivery for customers’ convenience. DRIVING FORCE God, family and profit from the business. ACHIEVEMENTS I have two branches, successfully trained four people in the business and I currently have two apprentices and five employees. CHALLENGES Insufficient capital has been a restraint because there is so much I want to do but I do not have the financial capability. I know everything will be sorted out in due time. REGRETS Business is moving well, though not as expected, but I will get there. FUTURE PROJECTION To own one of the biggest clothing factories in the world, become the biggest stylist in the history of Nigeria as well as a business consultant. UNFORGETTABLE DAY The day I opened the second branch of my business in Gombe. I will not forget it in a hurry because I went through a lot of stress. HOBBIES Travelling to new places, meeting new people, learning new cultures, counselling people in difficult situations, listening to music and dancing, especially when I’m stressed up. I like helping the needy, no matter how little, because it gives me joy and satisfaction. HOW DO YOU COMBINE BUSINESS, STUDIES WITH FAMILY LIFE? It is no hindrance to my academics because the educational system in the National Open University is flexible and it gives me room for business and family. I go to school occasionally to access materials for study. I’m coping fine and will be graduating in few months by God’s grace. ADVICE TO WOMEN Never give up on yourself, and your dreams. Do what you believe to be right, keep pushing no matter what it takes.