In a bid to uplift the economic status of women and youths in Nasarawa South, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, has empowered a total of 105 persons in his constituency. Items distributed to the vulnerable members of his constituency by the senator includes grinding machines and power generating sets. Beneficiaries were drawn from Doma, Lafia, Awe, Keana and Obi Local Government Areas that make-up Nasarawa South Senatorial zone. Distributing the items to the beneficiaries in his constituency office along Akwanga-Jos road in Lafia, the lawmaker said it was aimed at improving their economic well-being. Senator Al-Makura, who is Chairman Senate Committee on Solid Minerals, Mines, Steel Development and Metallurgy, also said it was his little way of appreciating his constituency. Al-Makura, who is also the immediate past governor of Nasarawa State, said the items were part of his zonal intervention for his constituents, especially the most vulnerable. He maintained that the best form of empowerment was not doling out cash and food to people but providing them with items that would enable them fend for themselves. According to him, the grinding mills will go a long way to boost the economy of households of the women beneficiaries. While the generating sets will help the youths in the areas of their specialization such as barbing and other trades. He further explained that he would roll-out various empowerment programmes with direct bearing on indigent members in his senatorial district to tackle poverty and restiveness. “I don’t believe in giving people fish; I believe in teaching them how to fish. By this empowerment, we are developing you to become self-reliant and to become employers of labour” “I have set up machinery to identify other priority needs of the people in my senatorial district with the view of addressing them. “I assured my people that I will impact on their lives as much as a senator like I did during my tenure as a governor,” “I don’t know how to lie, deceive the people and make false promises. What I have done now is in line with my campaign promises to my people. We will continue to build capacities and create the necessary platforms for people to develop themselves because I know how work the work for which I was elected”, he added. Al-Makura, a first timer in the Senate, promised to live up to his constituency’s responsibilities by ensuring and attracting federal projects in all areas of infrastructure and services spread to all the 5 LGAs of his constituency. Also speaking at the occasion, the National Vice Chairman of APC, North Central Zone, Suleiman Ahmed Wambai, commended the people of zone for their support for the re-election of President Buhari and Senator Al-Makura, during the 2019 general elections. He assured that Senator Al-Makura, would not disappoint the people of Nasarawa South and the APC family in the discharge of his duties as the representative of the people. While urging the beneficiaries to make judicious use of the gifts presented to them, he appealed to people of the district to be patient as more empowerment would soon come for those that had not benefited. Also in goodwill message, Alhaji Aliyu Bello, the State secretary of APC, charged the beneficiaries to utilize the grinding machines and generators judiciously with a view to engendering positive developments in their lives. Responding on behalf of the beneficiaries, Mr Isa Mahanga from Awe Local Government Area, said that the donation was a justification of their mandate to the senator. He therefore assured the senator that they would use the items for the purpose they were meant to serve.