The rector of Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja, Professor Mohammed Atureta has denied insinuations that the management of the institution has increased the students tuition fee this year. The rector also clarified that it was not the school fees that was actually hiked as being peddled but simply the introduction of payments for three categories of services provided for the students as obtainable in other tertiary institutions across the country. He made the clarification during an interactive session with the members of the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Kogi State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) at the weekend. Professor Atureta explained that the newly introduced payments which is between N1,000 and N5,000 covers services provided by the institution’s Entrepreneur Development Centre for skills acquisition, Students Health Insurance Scheme for medical care and Convocation fee, which he said exist in all tertiary institutions in Nigeria. “It is no increment in students fees as being rumoured. It is merely payments meant to cover services rendered for the students’ comfort. This of course is not peculiar to Kogi Poly,” the rector affirmed. The rector who said that he just assumed office barely one year ago expressed his determination to make positive impacts that would enhance quality education and accelerate development in the institution. He vowed to give priority to the fight against cultism and other forms of social vices such as examination malpractice, drug abuse and immoral behaviours on campus. According to the rector, “Cultism is a serious monster ravaging virtually all the tertiary institutions in Nigeria but has been reduced to its lowest ebb in Kogi Poly. Our tradition is that any student caught in the act would not only be expelled but also handed over to the Police for prosecution. In fact we are alive with Governor Bello’s directive to ensure total elimination of cultism and other associated vices. Already security measures have been put in place to checkmate the trend.” On the allegation of admission of 4,000 students this session without capacity to accommodate such number, the rector denied the rumour saying that only 3,000 students were actually admitted out of the 8,000 that applied.