Unlike most Nigerian leaders, the minister of education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, did not give himself thumbs-up on his first term in his office as he openly declared that he was not sure he met the expectations of most citizens during the period. In his valedictory speech, Adamu promised to do better if given another chance to right the wrongs. Providence was on his side as President Muhammadu Buhari retained him as the minister of education, apparently to enable him take the sector to the next level. During his first term, the minister had prepared a blueprint for the sector in 2015, but he still did not meet the set targets because the ministry, as he told Nigerians, was grossly underfunded; an issue that resonates well with several other government institutions. Therefore, Adamu’s major excuse for not doing very well during the first tenure cannot be waved off because funding is the bedrock of any effective system or institution. Government agencies and parastatals that are grossly underfunded have not fared well in their operations. Since the return to full-blown democracy in 1999, it has become a yearly ritual for the education ministry not to receive more than 10 per cent allocation from the annual budget. This year is not different as the ministry’s vote is a paltry 6.7 per cent of the N10.8 trillion 2020 budget. This implies that Adamu may still not be able to drive his vision for the sector unless he thinks out of the box. On the average, Nigeria’s education sector has never received more than eight percent of the annual national budget. Infrastructural deficit alone can gulp 80 per cent of the education budget, yet a lot is expected from him by stakeholders. So, will Adamu perform magic to realise his goals? A revisit of his blueprint tagged: “Education for Change: A Ministerial Strategic Plan (2016-2019),” which implementation elapsed last year has viable and feasible projections such as the reduction of the huge population of out-of-school children; enabling adults and youths access to literacy; increasing the enthusiasm for the study of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), and enhancing access to Technical, Vocational Education and Training (TVET) and Basic Education. The document also highlighted the necessity of teacher education and capacity building and professional development. It also dissected other issues on curriculum and policy matters, tertiary education, education data and planning, information and communication technology (ICT) in education, and library services in education. Stakeholders in the education sector hailed the ministerial blueprint for placing huge premium on the reduction of the ever-growing population of out-of-school children which sadly runs into millions in Nigeria. Also, the emphasis placed on the provision of adult and youth literacy got a lot of people talking about the imminent educational revolution in the education sector. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) Institute of Statistics (UIS) put the world’s population of out-of-school children at 263 million, with Nigeria contributing about five per cent (the highest in the world). With over 12.7 million out-of-school children prowling the states nationwide, some stakeholders believe that the situation has worsened deserved the declaration of a state of emergency.  Adamu has, however, repeatedly debunked the figure of the out-of-school children on various media platforms, insisting that the report of the ministry’s audit team was 10.193 million. He further stressed that the statistics obtained by him and his team couldn’t be any far from the perfect figure since he and his team did a National Personnel Audit of both public and private schools in the country before coming up with the report. Adamu had earlier said the audit was part of the 2018/2019 Annual School Census, which was carried out by the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC), National Population Commission (NPC), National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), and other stakeholders. It is important to note that the ministerial blueprint was stretched to 2022 so that the plans and prospects contained in it can flow into the second tenure of the minister. A further analysis of the strategic, indicated the federal government’s determination to reduce to the barest minimum, the population of out-of-school children through enrolling annually 2,875,500 children in schools over a three-year period. This, according to the minister, would be achieved through a conduct of a national survey on Out-of-School Children (OOSC); conduct of community and household mapping of OOSC in 774 local government areas to identify under-served and unreached areas; conduct of mass sensitisation campaigns annually in 19 focal states in line with the national enrolment drive framework to mobilise communities to increase girl-child enrolment in basic education. The ministerial work plan for the reduction of the population of out-of-school children also includes the establishment of neighbourhood schools and promotion of community schools; the removal of every  form of payment (levies) in basic schools; the provision of a meal per day to school children as an incentive to increase enrolment in basic education schools; reactivation of 14 vocational training/special schools for out-of-school boys in the South East and South/South geo-political zones; establishment of four vocational skill acquisition centres in each of the 774 Local Government Areas, assessment and certification of trainees based on the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) to enhance their status, recruitment and training of 287,500 new basic education teachers from 2019-2021, and the recruitment and training of 21,562 new female basic education teachers between 2019 and 2021. This administrative plan, according to education analysts and stakeholders, will go a long way in furthering the minister’s chances in the bid to hit his set target. Adamu’s quest to achieve an improved adult literacy system got kudos from stakeholders, especially with the minster’s decision to conduct a national literacy survey in collaboration with NBS, and to design, develop and implement a national mass literacy programme. The plan also includes conducting on an annual basis, nationwide mass literacy sensitisation campaigns in 774 LGAs in Nigeria for the three year target using community-based resources; establishing 500,000 learner-friendly mass literacy centres between 2019 and 2021, and harnessing community-based resources. Other strategies to be considered include recruiting and training 500,000 mass literacy instructors/facilitators for the mass literacy centres from 2019 to 2021, and strengthening post-literacy programmes for completers of basic literacy, while vocational skills would be integrated into mass literacy programmes. The minister’s plan for improving the acquisition of science and technology-related skills is highly commendable as it includes the provision of massive infrastructure to make teaching and learning easy and conducive, the situating of prototype modern science, mathematics and ICT laboratories and technical workshops in TVET institutions and secondary schools, establishing and equipping 16 new Federal Science and Technology Colleges (FSTCs), and re-equipping the 21 existing FSTCs to improve access and quality. To improve university education in the country, the minister included in his blueprint plans to establish one federal university of science and technology in each of the six geopolitical zones of the country. This, according to him, would enhance access to quality tertiary education by students who find themselves in the catchment areas around such institutions. The minister also unveiled plans to establish a National Resource Centre of Excellence for STEM to promote innovation and improve quality, and the establishment of a National Institute of Technology in Abuja to act as a Centre of Excellence in TVET. Having analysed the minister’s strategic education development document, one cannot help but commend the lofty plans, but there still remains the challenge of underfunding which education analysts say “will stifle the efforts to revamp and improve on the gains recorded in the sector.” While it is the desire of most Nigerians that the education sector receives a facelift, it is, however, a huge burden on the stakeholders, particularly the minister to ensure that all the plans are worked into fruition.    