Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed said that his administration would remain consistent in fighting arm banditry by synergizing with security agencies and other relevant stakeholders. Governor Bala gave the indication during the ‘‘taking and handing over ceremony of arms and ammunition” recovered from criminals by a renowned hunter and fighter of armed robbers and kidnappers, Alhaji Ali Kwara yesterday at the Government House in Bauchi. The governor who noted that most of the arms were recovered in Burra Forest said the renowned hunter, Ali Kwara in collaboration with the police were instrumental in the recovery of the arms. “There are some informants within and outside the towns of Bauchi and environs that are helping us to do this, and this is also in collaboration with Bauchi State government, Ali Kawra, the police and other security agencies, so that we will be able to have some concrete engagement with a view to identifying all these bandits and armed robbers that have migrated from Zamfara and other places looking for abode in our forests. “We know there are some in Yankari forests, we know there are some in Lame/Burra, and we know there are some even along Dass road. Because of intelligence we are getting from SSS and other security agencies, they should know that they have no place to stay in Bauchi State”, Governor Bala said. The governor applauded the effort of the Inspector General of Police towards deepening community engagement and handed over the recovered arms and ammunition to the commissioner of police in the state, Philip Maku. “We will now surrender these arms and ammunition received from Ali Kwara to the Nigeria police for custody and also ask the Nigerian military to put their members in Ali Kwara team. We are ready to support them with wherever token of support in terms of mobility and logistics to be able to keep Bauchi State safe and secured”, Bala said. The renowned hunter, Alhaji Ali Kwara told the governor that the guns were recovered from bandits in Burra forest after a tipoff. Alhaji Kwara who said  that 43 guns, 1,117 ammunition and 30 cartridges were recovered informed the governor that he is working in collaboration with about 50 policemen in the fight against armed robbery, banditry and other crimes, a voluntary service he has been doing for 21 years. He added that the police are the ones doing the work while he coordinates them. The commissioner of Police in the state, Philip Maku said that he was taking the arms and ammunition for further investigation. “We have recovered these exhibits and it’s good that we carry out proper investigation with a view to arresting the culprits,” he added. 