Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, has said that the country has met the condition for the GAVI to introduce the HPV Vaccine into the National Immunisation Scheme by 2021. The minister stated this while addressing journalists at the event to commemorate this year’s World Cancer Day, in Abuja. The National Strategic Plan for Prevention and Control of Cancer of the Cervix in Nigeria (2017 – 2021) was launched in June, 2019. An Annual Operational Plan including costing was developed alongside the Cervical Cancer Control Strategic Plan for effective and guided implementation. According to Enahire, monitoring and evaluation framework was being  developed to ensure a proper implementation of the strategy. Again, he said cancer awareness jingles have been developed in the three major languages of Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo for public enlightenment including English and Pidgin. The minister further stated that in support of the WHO 2030 goal towards the elimination of cervical cancer as a public health problem, the ministry, Clinton Health Access Initiative and Unitaid recently signed a two and half  year innovative grant that will bring artificial intelligence and affordable screening to fight cervical cancer. This, Ehanire said will serve as a scale up programme to improve cervical cancer screening. Adding that three states in the country were benefitting in the first phase. These are Kaduna, Lagos and Rivers. Some preliminary works have been done while training of personnel to carry out screening will commence in February, 2020 in these states, said Ehanire. “In pursuance of international best practices, wherein there are specified health facilities that manage specific diseases, government has designated seven of its Federal Tertiary Health Institutions as Oncology Centres of Excellence with a view to upgrading them to be able to manage invasive cancer and cancer related illnesses. “These are UBTH, Benin, LUTH, Lagos, UCH, Ibadan, UNTH, Enugu, UDUTH, Sokoto, ABUTH, Zaria and NH, Abuja. To this end, there is an ongoing installation process of newly acquired Brachytherapy machines (one per centre) and CT simulators are being supplied for these institutions to enable them commence treatment after the installations. The bunkers to house these equipments are at various levels of completion. To ensure uninterrupted services to patients, LUTH, Lagos is on Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement with National Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA),” the minister explained. He also said that the country has commenced residency programme, licensing and registration of clinical Medical Physicists for the first time. Adding that the second phase of Medical Physicist Residency training in South Africa was underway to enhance the skills and increase the number of personnel in that field.