Unless you want to play the ostrich and feign everything is okay, Nigeria is going through one of the greatest security challenges in its almost 60 years of history. No matter from which prism you want to look at it, we are in a big hole in terms of insecurity and something needs to be done and fast. Sadly, in the past months we have witnessed a resurgence of killings by Boko Haram insurgents. Early this year we woke up to brutal killing of the chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Michika local government area of Adamawa State, Rev. Lawan Andimi after Boko Haram insurgents who kidnapped him reportedly rejected a N50million ransom. Also, Ropvil Dalyep, a student hostage from Plateau was murdered by the insurgents. This goes to show that the insurgents have regained their mojo and have continued their killing spree. On the other hand, activities of bandits and kidnappers have not abated. Traveling by road to any part of the country is now a suicide mission. Kaduna State is arguably the most terrorised state by bandits and kidnappers. The Abuja – Kaduna and Birnin Gwari roads are the headquarters of kidnapping in Nigeria today. You have an 80 per cent chance of being kidnapped if you go by road from Abuja to Kaduna. The train service has become the safest means of going to Kaduna or Abuja but that has also been threatened as gunmen last week kidnapped passengers after disembarking at the Rigasa train station and were on their way to the Kaduna airport area when they were abducted by the bandits. It is safe to surmise that we have surrendered to bandits and kidnappers. Also, I saw an advert on the social media of an airline advertising the Abuja – Kaduna route, I thought it was the usual funny memes on the social media but I later found out it was actually true. What do you expect when the kidnappers have started waiting for people near the railway stations. If people abandoned the trains for air travel, I believe the kidnappers will start waiting for people on the airport road in Kaduna. Indeed, insecurity in the land has made the calls for the sack of the service chiefs vociferous and will you blame callers? When your life is threatened, loyalty goes out through the window. We are in desperate times and actions are needed fast and now. Whether you support the calls for the sack of the service chiefs or not, there is no denying the fact that something drastic has to be done to curb the insecurity in the country. The insecurity has affected us all – both the rich and the poor. Most of the lawmakers cannot travel to their constituencies because of the fear of being attacked. The bandits don’t care if you are APC, PDP or APGA and our politicians should stop politicising insecurity. Prayers or protests will not solve the insecurity in the country. Concrete actions need to be taken. Like Pastor Enoch Adeboye rightly said last week, all lives matter. We should not feel rage when a member of our faith is killed, all Nigerian lives matter. I also do not buy the idea of all the regions getting their own security outfits and raising regional army in disguise, this is a recipe for disintegration and should be a wake-up call for the government of the day to act fast. All this insecurity again has brought to the fore the argument for the establishment of state police which I strongly feel its time has come. Granted, there are fears that Nigeria is not yet politically mature for a state police as our governors may abuse them. The argument is valid but at the same time stale. Insecurity is a big monster right now and any solution to cripple the monster is welcome. Nigerians are not safe at the moment and the President’s legacy is at stake here. Before now, there had been an improvement in security in terms of insurgency which has been limited to only the North-East region but now banditry and kidnapping are the latest demonic cousins which has claimed more lives in the last one year than insurgency. Action is needed like yesterday.