Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) and former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, have admonished Nigerian leaders to commit themselves to the service of God and humanity. They said exhibiting decorum and humility in governance would ensure stability and reduce friction between the leaders and the led for economic prosperity and development. The two leaders made the admonition in Ikere Ekiti, Ekiti, yesterday, during the dedication and commissioning of the new Saint Peter Anglican Church auditorium donated to the Anglican Communion by a legal icon, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN). Osinbajo, who spoke at the dedication service presided over by the primate of the Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Archbishop Nicholas Okoh, lauded Olanipekun for dedicating his life to the work of God through the project. He said: “David was the most favoured in the history of mankind despite not being a saint of any kind. “If you read your Bible, God described David as a man after his heart. Even while trying to describe Jesus, they referred to him as a son of David. But why was David so favoured? Some said because he sang and danced for God, but that is not the case, it was because he built a tabernacle for God. “So, when this smart lawyer (Olanipekun) told me a year ago that  he was building a house for God, I considered him a wise man. And as you doing this, the mind and heart of God will always attend to your supplications. “You have filed so many briefs and won many cases, but this edifice you donate for God is the best brief because it is filed for God. It is also the best of evangelism anyone can do,” Osinbajo stated. In his speech, Gen. Gowon described Olanipekun as a great philanthropist who had assisted people across the country, adding that he knew him as a student rights activist since his university days at the University of Lagos in the 1970s. According to him, agitation had groomed him ahead for leadership. Gowon said: “As a student, Olanipekun was attacking my government when I was the military head of state. He was fighting for the students as a leader, so his contributions to the growth of humanity now that he has become a successful lawyer are not surprising.” On his contributions, Olanipekun said: “With this donation, I will be more humble. I will never serve any other god except the living God. I stand on this pulpit to tell you that I don’t belong to any illegal society. The secret of my life is God.” Olanipekun advised well-meaning Ekiti indigenes to come home and contribute to the development of the state, saying that Governor Kayode Fayemi alone can’t fix all the problems. Speaking on behalf of the governors, Governor Fayemi described the donor as an “epitome of humility, decency, compassion and hard work and competence” who had done Ekiti proud in his chosen career and conduct. Delivering his sermon, Primate Okoh urged the rich to use their wealth to serve God and humanity, describing “this (building) as the best and most rewarding legacy. He saluted Olanipekun for remembering God and built a house in His honour, which Okoh said was a sign of humility and appreciation to God who had prospered him as a legal practitioner. Dignitaries at the event included Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki, Gboyega Oyekola (Osun), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), the All Progressives Congress (APC) national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, former governor of Ekiti State, Chief Segun Oni. Others were former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, former governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, ex-deputy governors of Ekiti State, Prof. Modupe Adelabu and Kolapo Olusola Eleka, minister of Sports, Sunday Dare, Senator Biodun Olujimi, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi,  , Mr Femi Falana, Eyitayo Jegede, former minister of Foreign Affairs, Odein Ajumogobia (SAN), Afenifere leader, Reuben Fasoranti, among others.