Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade has disclosed that the ongoing dualization of Tinapa / Odukpani junction road would soon be completed. The 16.7 kilometre meter long road is a federal project, but Governor Ayade commenced the dualisation late 2018 as part of his vision for ‘Greater Calabar Development Project and to ease traffic in and out of the capital city. Ayade while speaking during the inspection of work on the road yesterday, said that construction has reached very advanced stage and its  ready for asphalting. The governor, who spoke through his special Adviser on Media, Mr. Christian Ita, said the road is the main artery into Calabar, the state capital. “Cross River State government, under the leadership of His Excellency, Sir Ben  Ayade values the development of this particular road, which is the only access into Calabar”. “It is because of this that we are expanding and dualising the road despite the state of our resources”. While giving assurance to the motorists plying the road that construction will be completed before the major raining season sets in, Ita said; “We are at the point where asphalting is commencing, so the road is almost ready. You know the governor promised that the road will be ready and motorable by April. We will achieve that timeline.” Also speaking, the chairman of Infracross limited, High Chief Eugene Iwuh Akeh, said that the agency in charge of the execution of the project was satisfied with the level of work done so far. According to him, anyone that passed through the road few months ago will be astounded by the level of work achieved. “When His excellencey said that we should dualize this road, there was a lot of skepticism. The reason is that when you have a big project, the gestation period is a little bit large”. On his part, the director of civil, Ministry of Works, Engr Godwin Akeke said that contractors are working hard to utilize the dry season due to the coastal nature of Cross River State. He said that the level of work done would enable commuters to enjoy the road at the promised date which is April, 2020. “I will say that the percentage of completion is now at over 70 percent . We are here now doing the stone base, ready for MC, one on this and other sections sections”. “It’s our intention that before the next heavy rains from April, they should be opened to ease traffic,” he said. Some commuters and other road users commended Governor Ayade for his vision to dualise the road. “We want to thank our Governor, Professor Ben Ayade for doing this road for us. Before now, accidents and traffic snarls were a daily occurrence, particularly around this Pamol. But since the opening up of the road for dualisation, as a driver, I can see that there is no more traffic on the road.”