There were indications at the weekend that the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) may cut the salaries and wages of politicians and judicial officers, including those of the president, the vice president, governors of the 36 states of the federation, National Assembly members and other political office holders. Chairman of the commission, Mr Elias Mbam, who spoke to journalists in Abuja at the weekend refused to disclose whether the review of the salaries and wages of political officeholders and judicial officers was going to be downward or upward. He stated however that the salary review was in line with current economic realities and President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to the RMAFC team to “do everything to increase the size of the cake, block leakages and reduce the cost of governance”. He also revealed that the commission has commenced verification of the books of Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) collecting revenues, including Stamp Duty on behalf of all the government revenue generating agencies from January 2016 to December 2019. Asked if the commission has the backing of the presidency to review the salaries and wages of political officeholders, Mbam said, “First and foremost we are established by law and the law, in this circumstance the constitution, has clearly spelt out our responsibility and those responsibilities are very clear. “One of them is to determine the remuneration appropriate for public and judicial office holders. So, it is our job. We can’t go to get permission to do our job. In that respect, you will believe with me …that it should be reviewed and it is part of our responsibility. And the president charged us on the day he inaugurated us to do everything to increase the size of the cake, block leakages and reduce the cost of governance. “So, we are following the law establishing us and I don’t want to be pessimistic. I want you to make contributions to ensure that it succeeds. Why shouldn’t it succeed? It is we that will determine it. Particularly, you know the press determines how things flow. The press has a great role to play in supporting us in molding the opinions of Nigerians.  I can tell you the much I know and read that an average Nigerian wants it reviewed. “But what they have been asking me and I don’t want to say or to give an answer before we arrive is if it’s going to be up or down. What I have always said is that this is a process and at the end of the process we will determine what it will be. So, don’t ask me whether it will be down or up. I won’t say. Let the process flow and at the end, the result will come out”. The RMAFC boss further hinted that the commission has commenced verification of the books of Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) collecting revenues, including Stamp Duty on behalf of all the government revenue generating agencies from January 2016 to December 2019. Mbam who said the commission is now concluding the verification of 2015 books of commercial banks did not give clues to preliminary findings of the commission so far in respect of the verification exercise. “We want to look at their books: when did you receive this money? When did you remit it to the revenue generation account? Did you remit appropriately and on time? If somebody collects your N1billion and trades with it for one month it is not the same amount and so these are the verifications they did and we are progressing,” he said. The commission is presently receiving applications from consultants for reconciliation and verification of the collecting agencies from January 2016 to December 2019. On the number of commissioners currently serving on the board of RMAFC, Mbam said seven states and the FCT were yet to have representation in the commission. “We have 29 states represented now. So we are still expecting eight. The President appoints them subject to the confirmation of the Senate”, he said. In April 2019, RMAFC had announced that it was going to probe 22 banks over non-remittance of Stamp Duty taxes, a move Mbam said he was not aware of. The planned probe was an initiative of the previous administration of the RMAFC before Mbam was reappointed.