On Tuesday, President Muhammadu Buhari unveiled the new visa policy to boost the economy and enhance the country’s security. In this report, JONATHAN NDA-ISAIAH weighs the benefits of the policy to Nigeria. It is often said, rather jocularly, that one of the most difficult visa to get in the world is the Nigerian visa and the reasons are not far-fetched. Corruption and cumbersome bureaucracy have been adduced as reasons for the difficulty in getting the visa on time. The strain in securing a Nigerian visa is also listed as one of the reasons why the country is ranked low on the ease-of-doing-business ranking in the world. Instructively, President Muhammadu Buhari came to power on the mantra of ‘change’ with the intention to change how Nigeria was being perceived in the international community. Presently, the Nigerian economy is still stuttering, prompting the government to look for creative ways of increasing revenue and boosting the country’s economy at the same time. No doubt, Nigeria is facing one of its greatest security challenges, a situation some experts have blamed on the country’s porous borders and corruption in the nation’s immigration system. In a bid to nip all that in the bud, the federal government officially launched the Nigerian Visa Policy (NVP) 2020. This enhanced visa policy of Nigeria, one of Africa’s key economies and demography, came on the heels of the signing of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement, a treaty seeking to establish a continent-wide marketplace with increased trade and freer movement among its major economic powers. The objective of the reforms that have birthed NVP 2020 is to strengthen Nigeria’s position as a key economy in Africa by attracting more Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) into the country’s economy which would in turn provide jobs for the people and lift Nigeria’s teeming population out of poverty in line with the vision of President Buhari to take 100million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. NVP 2020 is also designed to support the attainment of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (2017 -2020) and is a pathway to achieving the Security, Economy and Transparency (SET) Agenda of the present administration.  Some of the features of NVP 2020 include, Visa on Arrival for African Union nationals, increase in the classes of visas from 6 to 79, creation of visa codes for all classes of visa and introduction of e-visas. The benefits of the new NVP 2020 are many. It presents a good opportunity for Nigeria to be a major consideration for investment in Atria and hosting of international events, particularly the ones scheduled to hold in Africa. It also serves as a major boost for Nigeria’s aviation, entertainment and tourism industries. The new visa policy is expected to take Nigeria some steps up in the African Visa Openness Report published annually by African Development Bank (AfDB) which would be a further boost on the global Ease of Doing Business league table. During the launching, President Buhari said the Nigeria Visa Policy 2020 is intended to attract innovation, specialized skills and knowledge from abroad to complement local capacity. In his remarks at the official public presentation of the Nigeria Visa Policy (NVP) 2020, the president said, “The implementation of the Nigeria Visa Policy 2020 will support the attainment of a globally competitive economy for Nigeria by building on the efforts of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council.’’ President Buhari noted that the policy will improve the business environment, attract Foreign Direct Investment and boost tourism without compromising national security. “Earlier in the course of this Administration, we introduced the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (2017-2020) with one of the objectives being to minimize bottlenecks which impede innovation and market based solutions for building an inclusive economy. The Nigeria Visa Policy 2020 is intended to attract innovation, specialized skills and knowledge from abroad to complement locally available ones,” he added. The president also noted that the Nigeria Visa Policy 2020 provides an avenue to achieve African integration by introduction of visas on arrival for short visits to Nigeria for holders of passports of African Union countries. “I therefore commend the document to the international community, foreign and local business entities. We are open for business,” he added. In his remarks, the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, said the visa policy took into consideration specific needs of foreigners who would want to visit the country, without compromising the security of the country. The minister said the policy had followed a process that considered the security, economy and territorial integrity of the country, and would only be issued after due diligence with other security components of the country. “Especially, the new visa policy will be helpful to diaspora Nigerians by birth who can now use other passports to visit the country because some countries do not allow dual citizenship,” he added. Speaking to State House correspondents after the launching, Aregbesola further explained reasons why the visa category was increased from 6 to 79. He said, “Why 79 classes of visa from six? The reason is simple: we want to be very detailed in the classification of people who we have to bring into our country so as to limit the chances of any one of them escaping our watch. It is to enhance security; that is the number one consideration. Secondly, it is to expand our economy.” In a technical presentation, the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Immigrations Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede, said the service had already put in place a technological hub called the Migrants Information and Data Analysis (MIDAS) to ensure strict compliance with the conditions for the issuance of the visa. Babandede assured that issues of corruption or bribery will be controlled by the automated system, while allaying fears of possible infiltration of the economy by criminals and terrorists. He said the new policy has 79 categories, including health, education and tourism, pointing out that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), National Intelligence Agency (NIA) and the Interpol also made inputs into the system, and would be carried along in the processing before approvals.