The $780 million dollars volume of trade between Nigeria and Australia is set to receive a boost, as the Australian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Ambassador Clarie Ireland disclosed that Nigeria would have a good chunk of Australia’s $10 billion investment in the mining sector in West Africa. “At the moment, the trade volume between Nigeria and Australia is insignificant. It is around $780 million and this is why we must do everything to improve the volume of trade”. “We must do more for Nigeria to benefit from Australia’s $10 billion investment in mining sector in West Africa”. “Large chunk of this investment is supposed to be in Nigeria but unfortunately, that is not the case. That is why I see today’s senior official meeting as a rear opportunity to change that narrative for good.” The Ambassador explained that Australia has modest and focused relations in Nigeria, adding that they focused on mining and education in the bilateral engagement. “So, we are collaborating with His Excellency, Nigeria’s high commissioner in Canberra to improve on our collaboration in the mining sector. There is also opportunity in agriculture for us to explore down the road”. “Australia is going to support Nigeria in its efforts to diversify its economy, especially in the mining sector. This is one area Australia has comparative advantage”. “Australia has higher technical experts and investors in mining that are ready to invest in Nigeria. The ministry of mining should ensure enabling laws are in place while the effort of the Nigerian Mission in Australia is arousing the interest of investors. I am very keen to take this interest forward, following the senior official talks today”. On his part, the Nigerian high commissioner to Australia, Ambassador Bello Kazaure Husseini said that since he assumed duties in Canberra, that this is the second event his mission has organised. “In 2018, we held Nigeria mining workshop in Australia in collaboration with NACCIMA and other agencies of government. The latest one is Nigeria-Australia Investment Forum and it took place between 3rd and 7th February. Some Nigerian companies, government agencies and other stakeholders were in Australia to attend the programme”, Ambassador Husseini said. Also speaking, the director general of NACCIMA and former Nigerian High Commissioner to Australia, Ambassador Ayo Olukanni emphasized that the private sector is key and important in this new perspective. “All these steps are in line with the 2016 Nigerian roadmap for the growth of the Nigerian development of mining sector”. The mining states must be encouraged to take advantage of what Australia has to offer,” Olukanni said.