The Southwest Caucus meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) holding in Osogbo, Osun State on Tuesday was momentarily disrupted by members of the party from Ekiti State. The protesters who were demanding for the slot of National Deputy Chairman South to be zone to Ekiti State in their numbers stormed the Osun State Secretariat of the party where the meeting was taking place. The Southwest leadership had gathered in Osogbo to hold a closed-door meeting to allegedly fill the vacant seats in the National Executive Council of the party from the region. The vacant position of National Deputy Chairman (South) of the APC occupied by Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo had been vacant following his appointment as Minister of Trade and Investment by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. The protesters who were chanting solidarity songs were armed with placards with several inscriptions such as; “No more Ajele politics”, “Fair is fair don’t cheat us”, “Don’t take us fools”, “Beware of those things that can tear us apart”, “Ekiti APC is not second class Ekiti”, “Party constitution is superior to personal sentiments”, “It is deputy chairman or nothing”, and others. The protesters who were led by a member of Ekiti state House of Assembly representing Ikole, Hon. Adeoye Aribasoye forced their way into the secretariat thereby forcing the leaders to end the meeting abruptly. Hon Aribasoye addressing the southwest caucus leadership, said, “The reason for our protest is for equity and justice. The position of the national deputy chairman APC south became vacant upon the appointment of Niyi Adebayo who is now a minister. By the precedent convention and constitution of our party, the state which produces the seat that is vacant is to select another person to replace it. “Ekiti State is not an appendage of any other state. We are against cheating. What belongs to us must not be taken away. The position of the National Deputy Chairman (South) of the APC should be zoned back to Ekiti. We believe in a course and we are resolute. We are resisting modern-day Ajele.” Responding, the National Vice Chairman (Southwest) of the party, Pastor Bankole Oluwajana, implored them to be calm. He said, “We have heard what you have said, and We will make it known to the leadership of our party. Before your arrival, the deputy governor of Ekiti State, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, was here to submit a four-page letter to us. God will help us sort it out.’’ 