Award-winning Public Relations (PR) Consultant Yetunde (Yetty) Ogunnubi is a leading  professional in the fashion, arts and corporate industry with over 17 years experience in Fashion, PR, Marketing, Creative & Image Branding and Event Management. From fashion designing, production to PR consultancy, Yetty has consistently etched her mark on the African Fashion landscape in the UK and Nigeria over the years. In this Interview with MILLICENT AREBUN ONUOHA, she stresses the importance of identity to branding, the difference between sales marketing and PR and the Nigerian client quick-results syndrome. Synopsis of the journey so far I was born in Lagos to a family of artists; both my parents are front-runners, exterior decorators and artist, in Nigeria, with their works on several monumental buildings across the country. Over the years, I have managed publicity projects for numbers of government organizations, corporate businesses, fashion and creative events press conferences, promoted emerging and established labels and artists internationally of which many of them have gone ahead to become household names in their different industries. I started my career as a fashion designer in the UK with my brand Yetty D (Revolution by Yetty D) a lifestyle brand, which became a household name. In the process after I started my annual fashion event which gave platforms to the UK up and coming fashion designers, models and artists. I am very passionate about fashion so while running my label I was also a writer and proofreader for a couple of fashion magazine in the UK before becoming a fashion editor for the ISAAC Outlook Magazine an exclusive lifestyle Magazine. In 2009, Alongside my Uncle, renowned artist Lemi Ghariokwu I was commissioned by Punch Records Uk to create fashion pieces for Mannequins using my uncles cover art for FELA for the Fela TOUR (Arts Own Kind) in the UK. I also produced TV shows, one of them was Uber Africa Unmasked. A reality TV Show set to find the next best African inspired designer in the diaspora Uber Africa Unmasked in the UK. One of our collaborators then was African fashion week. we worked alongside with them, where our finalists then went on to showcase at the African fashion week London, while our three finalist feature in the ad campaign for AFW. I relocated back to Nigeria six years ago and became the Communications Director for Africa Fashion Week London and Africa Fashion Week Nigeria a few months later. YD agency started officially three years ago. I was the communication director for African fashion week for a while but people kept approaching me to do PR for them. Emerging designers would reach out to me, asking for advice on how to place their budding brands at the fore of the industry and I realised that was a breach in the market place. A lot of startups don’t understand the value of PR so I decided to bridge the gap. Eventually, we started to run the agency three  years ago. So far so good it’s been a roller coaster in the journey but we are still pushing it. Role and challenges of communication in building fashion brands in Nigeria Personally, because I used to be a designer am quite passionate about fashion and lifestyle brands. One would ask why I didn’t continue my fashion brand on moving back to Nigeria but unfortunately, I felt like my creative juices weren’t working in Nigeria. I did try it for a few months after coming back before deciding to give it a break. People would probably say I didn’t try my best I know when to call it quits. I know the challenges the Nigerian fashion designers face, I know the structure that has to be built and put in place, and I also understand the Nigerian market and its constraints. We have a lot of great designers in Nigeria that, make fantastic clothes but how many people actually buy from them?. The average Nigerian mentality towards made in Nigeria or Made by Nigerians clothing is a major challenge to the growing fashion industry in Nigeria. Most would still prefer to travel abroad to get clothes from foreign designers rather than patronise their own indigenous fashion designers. I think it’s a communication gap that can be reduced by a re-orientation but there are also other factors too that play a vital role. For instance, inadequate production hub facilities, quality control and understanding the middle market too. I patronise a few Nigerian brands that I feel are of good quality and are affordable, for instance, Shop Maju, but I still go outside Nigeria to buy clothes. This is where PR comes in. What PR and the digital age we are in right now does is to amplify whatever thing you have and make it more pronounced outside your own community. We basically tell your stories for you. This has helped a lot of brands in recent past but I still feel a lot of fashion brands lack the will consistently invest in PR for their brand. What is the most essential part of brand building to you? First and foremost having an identity is the holy grail of branding. Having an identity is to have a brand. In simple terms, having an identity starts from having a logo to how you want people to feel for you as a brand and having a vision. Those are part of the tools a PR agency use to market you to the world. What inspires you when it comes to creating a campaign? Firstly, it starts with understanding the client. Each client comes with his or her own unique needs and understanding them uniquely is one of the secrets to my success in the industry. From understanding the client vision to articulating it in a cohesive coherent way, understanding is vital. For instance some fashion designers don’t fully know what inspired a collection or can articulate what the collection is all about, or can they connect it. So one needs to understand the mind at work, help identify and then articulate it engagingly. What is your take on the Nigeria fashion industry in 2020? The Nigeria fashion industry is growing by the day, people are seeing the value from each other in the value chain of the creative industry. This year would be a major one. It is interesting to see that some fashion designers are doing their own solo shows, it is quite interesting to see that people are ready to invest in what they do. But majorly it’s great to see that there are garments manufacturing companies being set up. One was recently launched in Abeokuta, some recently though can’t remember the name as well. Is social media replacing the need or negating the importance of PR in today’s world? Social media facilitates PR works but in situations whereby, follower-ship and engagements don’t tally and can be bought, the importance of PR consultancy cannot be overemphasized. Granted social media helps a lot but it also gives people the wrong perception, take, for instance, a brand needs a brand ambassador, two people are short-listed for the job, but one has more follower than the other even though the one with the lesser follower has the right set of followers and is fit for the job. But when presented to the client, they go for the one with more followers, forgetting he/she might have the wrong audience for the brand. I don’t think social media is replacing or negating the role of PR. I think it can complement it. PR doesn’t end or start on social media, it’s just one of the tools employed in accomplishing the goal of the client. Don’ forget that digital marketing is just an online platform. There are so many people not yet on social media that also needs to be reached and converted into potential paying customers. Is fashion and lifestyle your only PR niche? I will say yes we are known for fashion and lifestyle but we also have corporate clients. One of the reasons is because I am quite passionate about fashion. Like I have said, I have walked the walk and I can talk the talk so I know the challenges people are facing. I am always going to be passionate about it, so obviously am always going to be drawn to it Are there plans to resurrect your Fashion label brand any time soon? To be honest, my brand was like my ‘’baby’’ I invested so much of my time to it and just before I came back to Nigeria I had some breakthrough. But fortunately, I had to follow my heart to come back to Nigeria. I know that some of the opportunities are still waiting for me but I am one of those people that once I do something I want to do it well. So when the time comes (maybe in a few years) I surely will. In recent years, my label made a collaborative collection with Daviva for Africa fashion week and more. I am still very passionate about fashion but the problem is the timing. I don’t have the needed time to focus on it fully for now. I will love to do my best when I go back to it. There is still room for me. Challenges The major challenge would be funding, secondly, Nigerians are quite impatient. So it is expected of a PR to perform magic when he/she is hired. It has to be something that should be built for long time and it requires consistency. I also feel like people should know the difference between a PR and a sales marketing person. Their two vastly different sectors with a unique skill set. I am not a salesperson, nor do we run a sales agency. What we do is help you gain visibility, help look for collaborators that can help you amplify your business. To give you that leverages that you can then build on to accomplish your agenda or mission. In a nutshell, I would love to say we are more than a PR and firm, we quite passionate about what we do. We take our clients project as our own, to be honest. We are more like a 360-degree marketing firm. Advice to advice to budding PR/ communication executives out there who wants to focus on the fashion industry? I think it is more about knowing more about the industry and its challenges and how to add value and be impactful. Secondly, If you don’t believe in a brand, you don’t have to take them on as a client. What is fashion to you? Fashion to me is quirky, comfortable, classy. What are the style items you can’t do without? My slippers, hairbrush and maybe my wristwatch because it helps count my steps. What is your favourite perfume? I love creed, I’m a big fan of masculine perfume.