Staying active during pregnancy can boost your energy, improve your mood, and reduce the risk of pregnancy complications. But as you think of different ways to stay physically active, you may wonder, is it safe to run during pregnancy? Running is a high intensity workout so naturally, you might be a little hesitant to continue it during pregnancy. The good news, though, is that you don’t have to hang up your running shoes at least not yet. But before you hit the pavement, here’s what you need to know about running while pregnant. Is it safe to run during pregnancy? Well-meaning friends and family might warn against running. Some might question whether the level of intensity could induce early labor, or worse, cause pregnancy complications. And if you’re constantly fed these fears or questioned by others, you might err on the side of caution and stop running. While this advice and concern come from a good place, the truth is, running is generally safe during pregnancy. Running won’t cause a miscarriage or harm your baby. So if you were a runner pre-pregnancy, continuing your routine is totally fine. That said, you may have to take some precautions, which we’ll dive into, and you have to listen to your body. There’s no denying that pregnancy will have some impact on your workout routine. You may have to run at a slower pace or modify how often you run, but you definitely don’t have to simply stop. What if you weren’t a runner before pregnancy? Can you start running now? If you didn’t exercise before pregnancy, incorporating some type of physical activity into your daily routine can offer benefits. However, pregnancy is not the time to start running. Your body is already working harder and going through a lot of changes. Starting an intense workout adds more physical stress, which isn’t ideal. Instead, opt for lighter workouts, such as gentle aerobics, walking, yoga, or using a treadmill or elliptical at a low speed. To develop a routine, start slowly and gradually increase the length and intensity of your workouts. For example, walk 5 minutes a day and then increase to 10 minutes, 20 minutes, and 30 minutes. However, pregnancy albeit a beautiful experience can wreak havoc on your body. You might deal with fatigue, pregnancy brain fog, mood swings, and naturally, weight gain yet, staying active during pregnancy can greatly improve how you feel physically and mentally. According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), pregnant women should get at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity every week. These are workouts that raise your heart rate and induce sweating, including running. If you were physically active before pregnancy, staying active shouldn’t pose too many challenges (you know, besides the morning sickness, exhaustion, and aches and pains). You may just need to adjust your expectations and the intensity of your workouts along the way. If you’re able to exercise for 30 minutes five days a week, you’ll meet the 150-minute recommendation. It’s fine to spend this time running, but you can also build in other activities, such as swimming, yoga, or walking. Working out during pregnancy can ease constipation, back pain, fatigue, and promote a healthy weight. It also lowers the risk of gestational diabetes and preeclampsia. And let’s not forget, exercise increases the body‘s production of endorphins. These are feel-good hormones that can elevate your mood. Exercising during pregnancy is a win-win. It can help you improve both your physical and mental health.