Operatives of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Person (NAPTIP) on Tuesday paraded a Lebanese National suspect for trafficking a lady identified as Olayide Biliki Kikelomo from Nigeria on the pretence of employing her as caregiver to his aged mother in Lebanon. Speaking with  Journalists at  International Organization of Migrants in Lagos, the Lagos State Commander of NAPTIP, Daniel Atokolo said the victim was Trafficked by a 54-year old Lebanese in October 2019 and return to his home Country Nigeria at 16 : 00hours on Saturday,  February 2, 2020 and is presently in the agency’s care. He said that the arrest was in response to complaint by the husband of the mother of two  on Thursday, January 30, 2020, apprehended  the Lebanese who is  resident here in  Lagos and mandated him to see the return of the victim. According to him, “fact of the case revealed that the suspect had trafficked the victim on the pretence of employing her as a care giver to his aged mother in Lebanese. “On arrival, the victim was reported to have been received by an agent who handed her over to a family where she was exploited as a domestic servant. “The victim also reported that she sexually harassed  while working for the said family.” NAPTIP boss said that, when approached by the victim’s husband to rescue his wife, the suspect reportedly demanded that the victim would only be returned if the family provides another to replace her. “The agency is currently investigating the suspect’s activities to ascertain his possible involvement in Trafficking Nigerians to his home country for exploitation. “The recently celebrated return of Omolola Ajayi is also not far from our thoughts, therefore, the agency would like to use this opportunity to reiterate its warning against the recent flux especially by Nigerian females to country like Lebanon, United Arab Emirate in search of the proverbial golden goose because the stories almost always end in exploitation especially labour and sexual exploitation.’’ He said NAPTIP Lagos State Command also on Thursday, January 30, 2020 apprehended two women Juliet and Chioma for their involvement in the purchase and sale a month old baby belonging to a mentally challenged woman. According to the NAPTIP boss, the current fact of the case indicated that this is the fifth time the helpless mother was losing her children to the greed of the people and sad situation around her. “Many might argue that this is possible in the best interest of the children, but the agency calls on Nigerians to please explore legal means of adoption as purchase or sale of babies is a Crime that is punishable by law. “The illegal avenues also avail unscrupulous elements the opportunity to exploit both helpless young women and their young infants at the Agency’s disposal to ensure a human Trafficking free nation. “The agency as you may be aware  under the Director General, DG, Dame Julie Okah-Donli, adopted a five pronged strategy to fight against human trafficking which were policy, prevention, protection, prosecution and partnership” he said. 