The Kano State Council of Ulama headed by Sheikh Ibrahim Khalil has condemned the recent ban on street begging by almajiri imposed by the state government, describing it as mere pronouncement, which will not see the light of day. Khalil who made this known in an interview with our reporter said that Kano State government is not serious and that the project is bound to fail like other similar policies by successive administrations in the state. He said the council’s position revolves around five issues; “Firstly, if we look at the history of banning street begging since the time of Sir Ahmadu Bello, when they were making efforts to ban street begging it was opposed by the Ulama because they saw it as a way of keeping people away from Quranic or religious studies. “The issue was politicised. Also during the reign of Governor Audu Bako, Alhaji Muhammadu Ibrahim, the father of Prof Ruqayya, former Minister of Education had  in 1971 initiated good plans to curtail street begging, there too the Ulama politicised the issue. Audu Bako moved him from the ministry. Firstly he was sent on course to Kaduna and when he came back he was moved to another ministry. The issue was finally swept under the carpet. “ He said subsequently, “the military administrator of Kano State then, Colonel  Ndatsu Umaru established a committee to stop street begging. Prominent Ulama like Sheikh Isah Waziri, Ibrahim Umar Kabo, Rabi Wali, were members and were drawn from all sections of the society. It was a very big committee.”  . As the committee resumed work he too was transferred from Kano.” He said the Ganduje  government that said that it has banned street begging is not serious about it. He said, “He will ban it and after a while it will return. Just like the Hausa saying that ‘The kings instruction last only for seven days’.” “Secondly, the steps to be taken before begging could effectively be banned are not followed at all. The right steps have not been followed and begging cannot stop because the correct measures have not been put in place. “The right steps has to be followed in banning street begging and these include firstly, the Quranic clerics involved have to be identified. Because there are street beggars who are Quranic students, there are beggars who are sent by their parents from the rural areas to come and be begging in the Urban Centres, there are also begging by some physically challenged individuals,” he added. He said that all these forms of street beggars need to be identified and each one addressed accordingly, adding that government has not done that. He noted that the Hizbah used to arrest the beggars but when they arrest them they just keep them and could not properly feed them. “More so, you cannot stop begging in the state without joining hands with the neighbouring states. So, for the ban to work there has to be cooperation between the government and the Quranic clerics. You have to sit with them and understand why they engaged in begging, get some statistics, know the total number of those engaging in street begging among them. If you identify all these, it is then that you will come to know exactly beggars that are not Almajiri Quranic students. If you recall there was the case of a man who just sent three of his children to the city to be begging for sustenance because he wanted to place his new wife in the room they were occupying. You can see that these kids are not Almajiri or Quranic pupils,” he said.  He said that government needs to “know the total number of the Quranic teachers, the total number of the Quranic schools and their pupils, know exactly who the real Almajiri are first. You will then know their needs, understand their problems and then proffer the right solutions. You can decide to cater for them or send them back to their homes. But you have not conducted all these. They have not consulted people like us that have made efforts on the issue to hear our own experiences, get our reports, those of Ndatsu in the past and those of the times of Sir Ahmadu Bello to get a better solution. Also they don’t even consult the Quranic teachers who see such efforts as a deliberate attempt at banning Quranic study.” 