Lagos State Government has collaborated with the Architects Registration Council (ARCON) by raising a joint committee on the modality and possible implementation of Architects’ Project Registration Number in the state. This was revealed in Lagos when ARCON visited the state’s Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development during which the former presented various issues to the ministry on moving the state’s built sector and architecture forward. Speaking during the parley, architect Dipo Ajayi, who led ARCON team to the meeting, said, it was necessary for the state to critically look at the initiative and adopt it as one of the conditions to be met before any real estate project, is done. Each side has four officials.  While the ARCON side includes Arc. Umar Murnai, Registrar of the Council, other members are Architects Kayode Anibaba, Ladi Lewis and Tiwalola Fadeyibi, those on the side of state government are Engr. Abiola Koseegbe, Tpl Funmi Osifuye, General Manager, Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPA); Tpl. Aliu and a lady architect. Ajayi had said that his Council had put in place ARCON Projects Registration Number (APRN) that will among other things tackle the menace of building collapse and quackery, plaguing the construction industry. He revealed that, the initiative had since been adopted by the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), adding that, if Lagos state adopts the policy, it would have done itself greater good because the initiative would be additional internally generated revenue to the state. In his presentation, Murnai said that, this measure was to complement the content and spirit of the National Building Codes, which are to ensure that only professionals with the requisite knowledge and expertise of the building process are engaged to carry out building projects and are duly governed by the various Acts in our statute books. According to the Registrar, APRN is a mandatory registration number issued to all architects practicing in Nigeria for each of their projects.