The crisis of confidence within the Bauchi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led to the party’s loss during the 2019 governorship election. APC lost the election to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), despite its status as the ruling party at the time. Interestingly, the party won massively at the federal and state assembly levels, a situation which reflected the intrigues that played out within its fold. For many pundits, the electoral misfortune that befell APC was inevitable, especially after the crisis in the party climaxed with the defection of most APC National Assembly members from the state to then opposition party, PDP, over irreconcilable differences with the former governor,  Mohammed Abdullahi. Some of those who defected were former speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, and Sen Suleiman Nazif. However, a year after the polls, the crisis in the party seems to be deepening and assuming different dimensions. The warring camps within the APC in Bauchi are not letting down their guard over the battle for control of the soul of the party in preparation for the 2023 general polls. The battle for the party is in light of projections that it is likely to remain the most viable opposition platform to wrestle the governorship from the party. As it stands, one of the camps is led by the APC state chairman, Uba Nana who is believed to be loyal to former governor Mohammed Abubakar. The other camp is led by chairman of the APC Youth Parliament, Abdullahi Maifure, which comprises of “some aggrieved members” who lost the party primaries in the build up to the 2019 general elections. They were also accused of working against the victory of the party during the elections, a claim they have denied. However investigations by LEADERSHIP reveal that the group is being backed by some serving federal lawmakers who hails from the state. It was learnt that the lawmakers are bent on muscling the party structure from the grip of the former state governor. In the build up to the elections, some members of the APC accused the former governor, Abubakar, of defying due process as to how party flag bearers should emerge. They further accused the former governor of handpicking his stooges as party flag bearers for various positions during the 2019 general elections. For many pundits in the APC, that was the first gale of misfortune that started to spell doom for the party. “You may wish to recall that MA Abubakar singlehandedly handpick almost all the candidates that contested on the platform of the party in almost all elective positions. “He refused to allow level playing fields for popular candidates just because he perceived them as too autonomous and disloyal,” a party chieftain who pleaded anonymity said. The aftermath of the party primaries was glaring; some “aggrieved members” went to court to challenge the process that produced the party flag bearers. The resentment of course manifested during and after the elections. When the party lost the election at the governorship level, the fracture became more prominent. It was learnt that opinions were divided over whether Abubakar should contest the outcome of the polls or concede defeat. He later accepted pleas, and conceded defeat, saying he will not challenge the outcome of the elections. But his party, the APC led by Uba Nana challenged the victory of the PDP at the Election Petition Tribunal. Abubakar was later convinced to join the battle, against his earlier pledged that he will not challenge the outcome of the elections. It was gathered that that decision infuriated some party members and emboldened the division in the party. The twists and turns during the election period and the tug of war that saw the party losing at the Supreme Court exacerbated the crisis in the APC in state. The warring camps have now resorted to using youth wings of the party to fight their proxy wars. The APC youth parliament led by Maifure Abdullahi and MA Abubakar Solidarity Forever led by Abubakar Gabi are being used for the battle between the opposing sides in the APC. The recent press release by the APC Youth Parliament which announced the suspension of its secretary Nasiru Cigari for alleged breach of party rules and the unveiling of Abubakar Solidarity Forever which opposed the former stood for gave a hint of the ongoing proxy war. The APC Youth Parliament lead by Maifure Abdullahi according to party pundits is interested in getting Uba Nana downsized and relieved of his position as the APC chairman in the state. They believe that the misfortunes of the party during the elections and its concomitant defeat at the apex court are inextricably linked to the “poor, vindictive and selfish” leadership style of Uba Nana whom they say was hell bent in destroying the party to satisfy former governor Abubakar. They accused Uba Nana of siding with the then governor to deny candidates “capable of bringing victory to the party” of tickets to contest elections. “You may wish to recall some of the crisis that ensued after the primaries. “How on earth will you bring the likes of Comrade Sabo Mohammed to contest against the popular Wakilin Birni and expect that you will win at the polls; that is practically impossible”, says a party chieftain who prefers to remain anonymous. The Maifure camp,  it was learnt  enjoys, the blessings of some state and National Assembly lawmakers within the APC and the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) who were forced to leave the APC after the primaries “because they were shortchanged and denied tickets within the APC” felt it’s time to fight back. However, Cigari who issued a counter letter suspending Maifure, also called a press conference to pledge loyalty to the Uba Nana as party chairman. He said, “The APC Youth Parliament is fully aware of a plan by some unscrupulous elements that are hell bent on destroying the good image of Bauchi State APC as a party and its leadership. “These people were ab-initio members of APC but out of desperation and ungratefulness, they decided to opt out of the party and truncated the electoral chances of the party. “They did sabotage the effort of APC leadership and mar its electoral fortunes during the last general election. “The only way according to them, is to factionalise the party and bring about turmoil and fracas within the party hierarchy. This is in their quest to secure tickets in the forthcoming party congress and by extension the general election (hijacking) of party structure,”Nasiru Cigari said at the time. The Cigari faction argued that irrespective of the growing resentment against Nana, he remains the legitimate chairman of the APC and has done all he could to ensure the party won the governorship seat. He added that,  “APC in Bauchi State scored about 800,000 votes at the Presidential election more than Adamawa and Taraba States put together by over 200,000 votes. “APC in Bauchi State scored the highest number of votes in the entire North-East Geo-political zone. “Out of the thirty six (36) states of the Federation and FCT, apart from Kano, Katsina and Kaduna States no other state has produced  as much votes as Bauchi State in the 2019 Presidential election and not even Lagos state could garner so much votes despite the large population over there. “APC in Bauchi State produced the whole three (3) Senators in its fold. “APC in Bauchi State produced nine (9) out of Twelve (12) House of Representatives seats. “APC in Bauchi State produced twenty two (22) out of thirty one (31) State House of Assembly seats. “Unfortunately, for reasons best known to Almighty Allah, APC in Bauchi State lost the governorship to PDP,” the Cigari faction argued passionately while defending Nana. The group restated its loyalty to the former governor, saying, “we are categorical about our loyalty, respect, passion and commitment to the ideals of the former governor Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar Esq to the extent that no amount of threat, blackmail and intimidation will change us as his critical supporters.” The group further argued that its formation was emboldened by the former governor’s ideals. “It is on this basis that this forum called ‘M.A. Solidarity Forever’ was formed with a view to keeping APC as one family in Bauchi State, a one united party solidly behind and loyal to both national and state levels with hundreds of thousands members and to a larger extent the federal government under the abled leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari. The Chigari forum which accuses some APC stalwarts in the state of holding secret meetings at different locations with the intent to destabilize the party says such elements of disloyalty will not be tolerated. When asked who the disloyal members were, Nasiru Chigari, a member of the MA Abubakar solidarity forum said, “they are those that contested and lost election during the party primaries, they are now trying to bring disunity with the intention of creating factions in the party so that the national working committee will be forced to dissolve the leadership at the state level and appoint interim Chairman,” he said. Cigari however opened a can of worms when he questioned the loyalty of some APC members in the Bauchi State House of Assembly. This alleged was given fillip by Hon. Yunusa Ahmed, a member representing Warji constituency at the state House of Assembly who questioned the loyalty of the speaker of the House of Assembly, Abubakar Y. Suleiman. Ahmed said, “Since he became speaker of the House, he is always romanticising with the PDP, a move many of us see as disloyal to the party that brought him to power. “For example, after the recent verdict of the Supreme Court that gave Bala Mohammed victory, the speaker rushed to issue a statement congratulating the governor, a move that is politically wrong being in the opposition.” Yunusa also alleged that the speaker, a member of the APC organised a party in his house celebrating the victory of Bala Mohammed. “Yes, I’m authoritatively telling you that there was a party in his own house, celebrating the victory of Bala Mohammed, against his own party member who battles Bala at the Supreme Court. “What do we call this other than disloyalty to the party?” Yunusa however described as fictitious, rumours making the rounds that some of the members of the House were planning to defect to the PDP sounds enthusiastic, “we are planning to give a formidable opposition to the PDP but, we will not be surprised if the speaker crosses to the PDP since he’s already toying with the party,” he concludes. The speaker, Hon. Abubakar Y. Suleiman in a telephone interview with LEADERSHIP described the allegation of disloyalty against him as baseless, stressing that he remains loyal to APC. On the allegations that he held a party to celebrate Bala’s victory, Abubakar said the claim is unfounded. “This is just an attempt to tarnish my image and puts me at loggerheads with members of my party.  I can categorically tell you that it’s not true. “But if some people are making such allegations, it will not surprise me because prior to the Supreme Court Judgement, there were moves that I will be impeached had the former governor came back. So if such disgruntled elements are making these allegations, I will not be surprised,” he said. While the back and forth between the two camps continue, watchers of events expect that the national reconciliation committee led by former governor of Osun State, Bisi Akande will be able to call the camps to have a dialogue over the matter. It is expected that the former governor, Abdullahi and the National Assembly lawmakers including, Senator Lawal Yahaya Gumau (Bauchi South); Senator Adamu Bulkachuwa (Bauchi North); and Halliru Dauda Jika (Bauchi Central) will pull ensure that the party overcomes the current rough patch it is experiencing at the moment.