Six years ago, 29 students of the Federal Government College, Buni Yadi, Yobe State, were butchered by Boko Haram insurgents at night while sleeping in their hostels. Our correspondent gathered that students, parents, teachers and alumni of the college assembled at the Federal Government College, Potiskum, to hold a prayer session in remembrance of the victims of the February 24, 2014 massacre. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that after the unfortunate incident in 2014, the school was temporarily moved to Federal Government Girls College Potiskum, FGGCP. Speaking to our correspondent, the immediate past principal of the college, Mr Balami Bwashang, explained that as sad as it is, luckily the attack did not affect the curriculum and many students because the school was already in its mid-term. LEADERSHIP Weekend recalls that the attack was launched on February 24, 2014 when the school was on midterm break. Some of the students resumed while others did not. “Boko Haram burnt classrooms, staff quarters and clinic in the school, including the laboratory and administrative block. A total of 29 of our students were killed, some were burnt, slaughtered and others died by stray bullets,’ Mr. Bwashang remembered. Idriss Abba Disa, president of the school’s old boys union, represented by Liman A. Goje, expressed his bitterness while giving condolences to the families of the deceased. He mentioned that five out of the burnt classrooms were renovated, while more efforts were put in place to get the intervention of the federal government. Speaking on behalf of the parents who lost their children in the massacre, Alhaji Lawan Gujja, said they will never forget that ugly day in their lives. “I want to use this medium to tell you that, I’m a parent and a community leader in Buni Yadi; My late son, Sulaiman Mohammed Gujja, was involved in the attack and he died instantly. “I will like to thank the former Yobe State governor, Ibrahim Gaidam. He was kind to us as he gave the parents one million naira each, as well as other individual assistance. May Allah reward him,” added Gujja. He also thanked the wife of the president, Mrs Aisha Muhammadu Buhari. “She invited us to the Presidential Villa and spoke well to us. We appreciate her concern about our feelings, and pray that Allah rewards her,” he said.  