The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), in partnership with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), has delivered agriculture livelihood support to over 60,000 Cameroonian refugees and their host communities in Nigeria. The project is part of efforts to improve access to nutritious food and revive the livelihoods of the refugees and their host communities. In all about, 1000 households in seven affected local government areas in Cross River State collected micro-gardening kits, safety kits, farm tools and equipment. The intervention is under the theme, ‘Agriculture and livelihood support to Cameroonian refugees and host communities in Cross River, Benue and Taraba states.’ It is implemented by the FAO in partnership with the UNHCR as part of the ‘Delivery as One’ (DaO) concept adopted by the United Nations system in Nigeria and facilitated by governments of the catchment states. The intervention targets seven local governments in Cross River including Ogoja, Ikom, Obanliku, Boki, Etung, Akamkpa and Calabar. While in Benue State, Ikyogen settlement is targeted, where the state government, from Anyeke resettled the refugees. According to UNHCR, the recent influx of over 8,000 more refugees brings the total to more than 60 000 Cameroonians accommodated in the three states. The FAO country representative in Nigeria, Suffyan Koroma said the items are carefully selected to assuage the livelihood challenges of the refugees, especially “the most vulnerable – women. “The micro gardens would support the food and nutrition needs of the households and increase the resilience of the affected population to threats and crisis,” he said. To ease the process, the target beneficiaries were trained on backyard gardening, nutrition sensitive agriculture and food systems, agriculture value chain and market access and mainstreaming gender and protection in agriculture and Livelihood at Ogoja level. The UN Agencies said it did this in collaboration with the State Emergency Management Agencies (SEMA), Local Government Agricultural Development Officers (ADP) in each of the targeted LGAs, with the support of the community leaders. It said another key activity was the creation of awareness to 1000 beneficiaries by ADP officers on agricultural practices climate smart agriculture, nutrition sensitive agriculture, sustainable management of land resources, building resilience and livelihood, value chain and market access, safe access to fuel and energy. “After sensitisation engagements with the communities, through the various leaders, distribution of the items started at Okende in Ogoja local government followed by Obanliku, Etung and Boki among others,” the FAO said in a statement. A beneficiary refugee in Obanliku local government ranch settlement, Akpo Cyprian, originally from Ngale community in southern Cameroon said he had looked forward to the support, like most refugees because conditions are difficult in the camps. He said the items supplied are well targeted. According to him, “The energy saving stoves would save my wives the trouble of having to gather firewood every day from the bushes.” Agriculture is the only profitable venture for the refugees now, “the community has given us small lands where we are staying, we will do our micro-gardens at the backyards, to feed my family and sell if I have excess,” the father of 13 children said.