The Federal Government has warned civil servants against requesting money or other forms of gratifications for services they render, saying that anyone caught will face the anti-graft agencies. The National Coordinator SERVICOM, Mrs. Nnenna Akajemeli, gave the warning in Abuja at the openings of a three-day Sensitization Workshop for Staff of Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) on Gl4-17. Represented by the Head of Operations, SERVICOM, Mrs. Jumai Abdullahi, Akajimeli warned that the extortion or payment of illegal fees from workers before rendering services to customers would not be accommodated in service “The staff attending to customers should ensure they receive services related to the functions of the establishment fairly, efficiently and promptly. Those seeking services should be told in advance how much the service will cost if money is involved, what standard of service to expect and how long it will take to be served. The success of the FCSC administration in attaining its lofty vision can only be achieved by rendering seamless, efficient and effective service to the citizens, she said”. While revealing that workers were being monitored, the SERVICOM boss warned that workers caught seeking or taking bribe would be reported to the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC). Speaking earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Civil Service Commission, FCSC, Mr. Olumuyiwa Enitan, said the commission being the apex regulatory organ in the public service was expected to show good example in quality service delivery. Represented by the Director of Human Resource Management, FCSC, Mr. H. T. Ejibunu, Enitan said that service failure had been an impediment to effective implementation of government policies. “The commission is set to build a core of highly focused, disciplined, committed and patriotic civil servants who will be dedicated in assisting government in its giant stride to develop our dear nation, he said”. Also, a resource person, Mrs. Kikelomo Aina, cautioned workers against seeking bribe before rendering service to clients, lateness to work and truancy. “Truancy deprives client’s access to service. And workers should be wary of laziness, pride, nepotism, wastage and disloyalty, stating that without loyalty, the employee could not be committed to the progress of the organisation. “Attitude is everything. It determines the quality of services delivered to the public. FCSC must strive to ensure that the culture of a positive attitude is continually sustained. This is the first step towards achieving its mandate”, she said.