Mrs Alaba Gbadebo is the co-founder and executive director at Benola Cerebral Palsy Initiative which she runs with her husband. She is equally CEO, Feroda Gifts and Feroda Farms. She is our Woman of Substance this week Background and education I was born 60 years ago, I am from Idanre in Ondo State. I come from a middle-class family, my dad did very well so we all went to school, all five in the family and we are all graduates. I had a happy childhood, my mum was a School Teacher who later became a Headmistress and my late father was a Civil Engineer who, apart from building houses, also did business. I was born and bred in Lagos so in essence, I’m a Lagosian, I had my primary education at Anglican Girls Primary School, Surulere, Lagos. From there, I went to St Catherine Girl’s Secondary School, Owo where I spent only three years because it was very far from home and I was always ill due to lack of potable water. Thereafter I moved to Fiwasaye Girls Secondary School, Akure. The result of all these movements is that, I can only remember a few of my secondary school classmates. For my A- Levels, I moved to Queens School, Ibadan and thereafter, the University of Lagos, where I read History. I did my one year National Youth Service in Kano and met my husband who was a fighter jet pilot in the Nigerian Air Force.  So that was how we me and though I had secured admission for my Masters in Mass Communication at the University of Lagos and Masters in Public Admin at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, I had to turn them down because my husband wanted us to get married and start a family even though I strongly believe that he just didn’t want to risk losing me.(laughs)  Early career After we got married I worked as a lecturer in History at Kano State College of Arts, Science and Technology for 10 years. The only thing I did not like was that, like most non-indigenes of the Kano State at that time, I was on a non-pensionable contract agreement that had to be renewed every two years. In understand that the practice still subsists till date, which is what pushed me to resign and start my own business, a saloon as well as dealership in corporate wears and household materials which I ran successfully until I left Kano in 1996. Till date, I still involve myself in some of those businesses. I didn’t have any challenges on the job as a lecturer and my Principal loved me because I was very diligent and if for any reason, I needed to take time off I always took permission. In fact, I never brandished my husband’s name or position and always made sure I was punctual for my lectures while relating well with all my fellow lecturers.  Philanthropy I take my cue from the Bible which says faith without action is dead.  So if you see your neighbor in need and instead of helping out you choose to say God bless and provide for you, that is not right. You must love your neighbor as yourself. I am serving God in the Prison Ministry of my church, Ikoyi Baptist Church, where I was actually the pioneer chairperson of the Ministry for about four years. I had to relinquish the post in 2006, when I had to take Olaoluwa, my fully-dependent-non-verbal-son living with Cerebral Palsy, abroad for treatment. I have always believed in helping others in my own way. Philanthropy is vital and Nigerians are generally good, but unfortunately we don’t give as much as we should. When my children were quite young I used to take them to places like Motherless Babies and Children Homes so that they could learn to appreciate what they have and also how they can help others.  Mentoring I don’t have mentors, but I admire a lot of people who do a lot for the less privileged quietly and anonymously. I like to mentor people in my own way. I want my life to be like a signboard to show a way to others. By that I mean, if a woman who has gone through all this can still think of others and also take proper care of her home, then they should also be able to do the same. My son Olaoluwa is twenty-four years old in June 2020 and everyone knows I love and will do practically anything for him.  Benola Cerebral Palsy Initiative On the 26th of February 2020, Benola will be seven years old and we will be holding an event to show appreciation to our Advisory Board members and all those who have partnered with us from the first year. Back then we had my husband’s gratuity to start with, but it wasn’t enough and his pension is still not enough, but as they say, if your dream is not bigger than you, then it is not God sent. We are using Benola to create awareness about Cerebral Palsy because a lot of people don’t even know what it means. Even myself, when I had Olaoluwa and was told he had cerebral palsy, as a lecturer I turned to my elder sister who was a medical doctor for clarification. Sometimes you never know what life has in store for you. Olaoluwa is my last child and I did everything right during his pregnancy, including going to the best hospital in Kano where he was born. Previously I had lost the only girl l had, so now I have just three boys in fifteen years of child delivery. After so many years of working to remove the stigma attached to Cerebral Palsy and other childhood disabilities, I have come to realise that there is always a reason for such happenings in our lives. Most times these children are abandoned by their parents, which is something which should be strongly discouraged. My son has been to many countries in search of treatment/management. While in India which was one of the many counties we visited I found out that in every state they have a cerebral palsy center where they have all that is needed to care for the special needs of these kind of children, Counsellors, and Physiotherapists, Occupational Therapists, Speech Therapists etc. Our dream is to build a center to be called, Benola Centre for Cerebral Palsy and Assistive Technology, where parents with these kind of children can bring their children and get all needed assistance because we know that cerebral palsy is one of the most expensive disabilities to manage. The Centre will provide specialised care as well as provide soft foods that such children need. However, we do not believe in having a dedicated home where such children will stay because what they really need is a loving home environment which can only be provided by loving and caring parents. Cerebral Palsy is in different variations; there are those who can talk a little, who jerk when they walk and talk slowly, those are the lucky ones. Then there are those who are totally dependent like my son, Olaoluwa, who cannot do anything for themselves. At 23, he still wears diapers, drools and has occasional seizures, so has twenty-four hours nursing care which we could not do without when he was younger. Following a major surgery to correct severe scoliosis which he underwent in India in 2010, Olaoluwa now has three Titanium Rods and 36 Screws holding his spinal cord together. He also has a Stomach Feeding Peg in place through which he takes his over 20 medications at various times each day. Interestingly, there are those children whose cases are even worse than that of Olaoluwa. Parents should therefore be made to realise that, having such children is not due to any fault of theirs and where it is due to an act of commission or omission, crying over it will not make things better. For things to start getting better for children with Cerebral Palsy, more parents should join the advocacy train like what parents of children living with Autism and Down Syndrome have done to put those conditions on the front burner in Nigeria. That is what Benola is working tirelessly to achieve and we call on all people of goodwill to please join us in this noble cause.  Legacy I want to be remembered as a woman who, despite all she went through, was able to turn things around for the good of all. In other words, the Benola initiative is not just for now, but for generations yet unborn.      