The minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has allayed fears that sanitizing the social media will lead to stifling of human rights of Nigerians. This is even as the minister stressed that Nigerian remains one of the freest countries in the world in terms of freedom of the press. The minister who stated this in Abuja yesterday when he received the Finnish Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Jyrki Pulkkinen, and the Ambassador of Innovation of the Foreign Affairs Ministry of Finland, Mr. Jarmo Sareva, who were on an advocacy visit to promote free press via the ideals of the ‘Freedom Online Coalition’ noted that the envoy was speaking to the converted already. Alhaji Mohammed, however, decried that the spread of fake news and hate speech has done a lot to destabilise the nation. According to him, “Our attempt to sanitize the social media is not at all an attempt to stifle the media and I want to make this very clear. As we speak today, we will be meeting later in the month with leaders of the media, civil society, security and other stakeholders on how to sanitize our social media and make it safe for all. “We, especially in this ministry, have watched with some trepidation the social media front and we have seen how some people try to abuse this platform to cause disaffection, especially by pushing fake news and hate speech.’’ The minister noted that his ministry will this month convene a stakeholders’ meeting as part of efforts to design a framework for the sanitization of the social media. He said the government’s response to the irresponsible use of social media to promote fake news and hate speech by some unscrupulous individuals is to work with stakeholders to device a mechanism to sanitize the social media, without stifling press freedom or infringing on the rights of individuals. He said the government remains overwhelmingly committed to the protection of human rights, both offline and online, noting, however, that it will not shy away from ensuring that Nigeria has a responsibly free media. The minister said that in spite of the plurality of values, tribes, cultures and religions, the government has striven to strike a balance between press/individual freedom and national security. “For us in Nigeria, respect for human rights is a cardinal principle of not just our constitution but of our day-to-day governance. I am yet to see any country with the kind of population we have, the kind of multi values, multi-cultures and multi religions we have, that has at the same time striven to balance national security with freedom of the press. “I make bold to say that this administration, in particular, has no intention and does not tamper with the freedom of speech or freedom of individuals,” he said. In his remarks, the Finnish Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Pulkkinen, acknowledged that the Minister has a broad understanding of the issues surrounding the misuse of the social media, particularly in relation to the credibility of information on the platform, and urged Nigeria to partner with global bodies like the Freedom Online Coalition in order to address some of the challenges posed by the social media. On his part, the Ambassador of Innovation in the Foreign Affairs Ministry of Finland, Mr. Sarevo, said the Freedom Online Coalition is a group of 31 like-minded countries formed to promote human rights online and also ensure cybersecurity, privacy and protection of data against illegal usage and monetization and trust, with a view to protecting all those uploading data on the internet.