Most people find it difficult understanding that problems are challenges and not a chance to end life. This mindset has forced many to their early graves and those they leave behind are the worst hit by their actions. In this report, RICHARD NDOMA writes that the rate at which suicide is rising in the country is overwhelming, unbearable and unexplainable. On Wednesday this week, it was reported that a 12-year-old boy in Imo State committed suicide. According to the report, Kasarachi Odurukwe, who was an orphan and living with his aunt, had tricked his two siblings and two other kids to a stream in Agboala Community in Umudi autonomous community of Nkwere local government area, to fetch water, and while they were there, tied a rope on an Indian bamboo tree and strangled himself. This news brough distress to the quiet community and left many wondering what could have caused the little boy so much distress as to desire to end his life. Every year, close to 800, 000 people attempt suicide and like Kasarachi, most actually succeed. Every suicide is a tragedy that affects families, communities and entire countries with long-lasting effects on the people left behind. It does not just occur in high-income countries; it is estimated that over 79 per cent of global suicide occur in low- and middle-income countries. And it is the leading cause of death among 15 to 29-year-olds globally. Suicide is some form of manic depression occasioned by so many factors, raging of the mind of the individual against some unfair or unjust treatment that could not be righted, shame, fear, anxiety and others leading to a total loss of control of the will to go on living. Suicide is an abandonment of hope. Sometimes for sure that unfortunate individual seeks only to attract attention to gain sympathy or empathy for wrongs committed against friends, family parents or society, believing that the society will neither tolerate nor condone such behaviour. The rise of suicide in our society as alarming as it is, has a root cause which many professionals try to explain. Dr Sally Asking, for instance, is of the opinion that most people from cradle to adulthood, have tall dreams and gigantic ambitions which they are not able to achieve easily. A little set back, she says, is enough to upset such minds to the point of no return. ‘‘They grow up with the ambition of hitting it big in life without taking into cognisance, the fact that life sometimes rarely gives people what they want.’’ According to her, such is the story of most Nigerians, especially the young ones, who took their lives recently. In the last four months alone, there were about seven reported cases of suicide with some even announcing their intentions on social media before actually committing the act. One of such case is that of Maxwell Enudi, a final year student of the University of Calabar (Unical) who drank the popular insecticide, sniper. The Delta State born graduate who graduated from the Department of Zoology and Environmental Biology (ZEB), in the Faculty of Biological Sciences, Unical, unlike others, did not leave a suicide note. Enudi was found lying dead with a bottle of the banned insecticide by his side. It has been suggested severally that institutions have guidance and counselling units to address such issues that compel students to take their lives. However, the Public Relations Officer of Unical, Mr Effiong Eyo, insists that despite all the mechanisms put in place by the school authority of the institution to avert such ugly trend, students are not untilising the counselling department by making themselves available for counseling when the need arises. “Like we have always told them, no student, no man has the right to take his own life. It’s even a sin before God,” he said. However, the institution’s Chief Security Officer, Mr Abang, advised students who are depressed or have worries of any kind to make themselves available at the institution’s counseling department for psychological assistance rather than stay behind to convince themselves that they have answers to their problems. But sometimes, even the counselling is not enough. That was the case with the 300-level student of Medicine and Surgery at the Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences of the Niger Delta University (NDU), last year. The student who was identified as Uzaka Ebiweni reportedly dived into Amassoma River and drowned before help came after realising that he was among the 22 students shortlisted to be withdrawn from the college for failing the Bachelor of Medicine exams beyond the level that he could be placed on academic probation for another academic year. Reports had it that the deceased could not absorb the disappointment that came with the news despite attending the counseling session organised by the university for the affected students before being asked to withdraw from the institution. He was said to have dropped a hint about his suicidal intention through his WhatsApp status update before actualising it. In some cases, mental illness that has been left unattended is the major culprit. The case of 22-year-old Chukwuemeka Akachi a final year student of the Department of English and Literary Studies at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) who committed suicide in May last year, comes to mind. The deceased was reported to have had a long battle with mental illness so much that on two occasions, he drank kerosene and petrol in an attempt to kill himself but was rescued. After the two failed attempts, two of his lecturers took to counseling him, even creating opportunities to spend leisure time with him whenever there was a slight change in his countenance. But all their efforts ended in futility. There are many suicide stories from last year and years before last to establish the fact that suicide has become an alarming situation that everyone should work hard at eliminating. We have heard stories of how medical doctors, clerics, bankers, mother’s, husbands and many others from other sectors, even people who are doing well, ended their lives for one reason or another. There is no alternative to teaching young ones that they need to live in harmony with each other and watch out for one another too, making sure that they report any case of unwarranted depression to the nearest elderly person around. Most importantly, they must be taught to live in harmony with themselves while striving to ameliorate the cord which binds their souls which in actual fact, is a personal matter between individuals. Suicide is a complex issue and therefore suicide prevention efforts require coordination and collaboration among multiple sectors of society, including the health sector and other sectors such as education, labour, business, justice, defense, politics and the media. These efforts must be comprehensive and integrated as no single approach can make an impact on an issue as complex as suicide. Interestingly, the World Health Organisation, WHO, recognises suicide as a public health priority. The first WHO World Suicide Report ‘Preventing suicide: a global imperative,’ published in 2014, aims to increase the awareness of the public health significance of suicide and suicide attempts and to make suicide prevention a high priority on the global public health agenda. It also aims to encourage and support countries to develop or strengthen comprehensive suicide prevention strategies in a multisectoral public health approach. Suicide is one of the priority conditions in the WHO Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP) launched in 2008, which provides evidence-based technical guidance to scale up service provision and care in countries for mental, neurological and substance use disorders. In the WHO Mental Health Action Plan 2013–2020, WHO member states committed themselves to working towards the global target of reducing the suicide rate in countries by 10 per cent by 2020, 2020 is here. In addition, the suicide mortality rate is an indicator of target 3.4 of the Sustainable Development Goals: by 2030, to reduce by one third premature mortality from noncommunicable diseases through prevention and treatment, and promote mental health and well-being.