Says Judgment Lacks fruit of Justice, APC  *** PDP Does not have spread, Oshiomhole insists  The governing All Progressives Congress (APC) has stated that with the recent judgement of the Supreme Court nullifying the election of David Lyon as the governor of Bayelsa State, there will be no governor for the state. The party which insisted that the judgement lacks the fruit of justice, further stressed that according to the judgement, which demanded that the next party with the highest vote should be given certificate of return, PDP did not meet the constitutional requirements. Addressing a press conference at the party’s national headquarters in Abuja, the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, said that the judgement did not reflect the will of the people of Bayelsa hence, constituted grave danger to Nigeria democracy. “We respect the rules of law as a political party but we have to say that the judgement lacks the fruit of fairness and it constitutes grave danger to our democracy. There will be no government in Bayelsa because PDP is not qualified to take over since they didn’t have the spread. “Therefore from the facts available to us and in due consultation with our lawyers, it is clear that no candidate meets the requirements of the supreme court which means no one can be sworn in legally tomorrow,  unless there is deliberate attempt to abuse the legal process. “We have accordingly asked our lawyers to look at all the windows that exist in law and take steps to ensure that the will of the people of Bayesla state is not undermined on the altar of technicalities. “I am not a lawyer buy I don’t need to be one because when judges make judgement, they are published and once you can read and right, there are some that even layman like me.” Oshiomhole further stated that “In 1999, there was a similar case in Bauchi involving Governor Adamu Muazu. The court found that his running mate was not qualified for whatever reason to contest that election, and accordingly the Supreme Court nullified the election of Governor Adamu Muazu and the court as a consequence directed INEC to conduct a fresh election. “I believe it is still the same Supreme Court and therefore we have asked our lawyers to explore all lawful legal window to ensure that Bayelsa people have a governor their will chosen “I have chosen to make this formal response to this judgement so that we do not leave in particular, the great people of Bayesla state in doubt as to where we stand – we stand by them “I also want the Nigerian public to know that this is the position of the APC. “Let me say that this, as bad as the case of Zamfara was, where after we have won the governorship election, the senatorial election, the House of Representatives and the House of Assembly election, the court held that APC did not conduct primaries in Zamfara state and therefore did not participate in that election. This one is totally different, there is no doubt about the fact that proper elections were conducted. In fact , even the supreme court as so upheld, this is not another Zamfara case and therefore the essential ingredients are different and therefore the outcome and consequences cannot be the same. “We want to assure not just APC members across the country, who are still in shock over this judgement, we want to assure the Nigerian people that we are a law abiding party, we still believe that the will of Bayesla people will prevail and there is sufficient legal window to achieve it.”