The Senate yesterday, grilled the Comptroller General (CG) of Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Hameed Ali, over failure to remit the five percent of staff wages to the Nigerian Pension Commission (NPC) in the last five years. At a public hearing organised by the Senate Committee on Public Account, the lawmakers queried the Customs CG over non-remittance of the staff pension. LEADERSHIP Friday reports that the Nigeria Customs Service is among the establishments the Auditor General of the Federation, Mr Anthony Ayine’s report indicted. The chairman of the Committee, Sen Mathew Urhoghide (Edo North), raised the alarm that based on the Auditor General of the Federation’s report; customs have not remitted their staff pension fund to National Pension Commission (PenCom). Orhogide said the refusal of the Customs leadership to abide by the constitutional provisions of the Pension Act, with regards to the pension of personnel entails that the retirees of the service have not been receiving their pensions. Also speaking, Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe (Kwara Central), told the Customs CG that the money ought to had been remitted to the PenCom for onward payment of the staff. Oloriegbe who said Customs should have no reason to fail to remit the five percent of staff wages to the PenCom, added that the Service should look for where to raise money and remit the five percent to its staff pension. But the Customs CG, Hameed Ali said the Service has been suffering over insufficient fund. He said lack of fund was behind the non-remittance of the five percent pension of its staff in the last five years. Ali said that the seven percent collection costs, which the NCS deducts from revenue collections, have not been enough to pay their staff salary. He said that when he took over as the CG Customs, the service depended on bailout to carry out its operations. According to him, it was until President Muhammadu Buhari approved their inclusion in the Consolidated Salary Structure (CSS) that the NCS began to offset some of its financial commitments. Ali said while the money for salary of staff is deducted directly from the seven percent commission, that of pension is not directly deducted. He however assured the senate that with the inclusion of Customs into the CSS of the federal government, the Service would be able to commence the remittances of backlog of the five percent to PenCom. He said the seven percent commission, which they deduct from revenue collections, has never been enough, adding that it will not be wise to remove five per cent from the seven percent commission and pay to the PENCOM, when the remaining two percent will not be enough to pay staff salary. Responding earlier to the allegations of non-remittances of its revenue collections to the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF), the Customs boss expressed surprise over the allegations. He said he was just hearing the allegation for the first time adding that collections and remittances by the agency have been automated since 2015, hence the issue of under remittances could not have arisen. On the N4.5billion given to Customs as loan from the N37 billion special funds for the local production of rice, Ali said he was just hearing about the loan for the first time. Ali admitted that the money could be part of the bailout fund given to them by the government, insisting that the NCS does not have any record of any loan from anybody.