No fewer than 30 persons were killed and 18 vehicles, including eight trucks loaded with goods completely were razed down when Boko Haram terrorists on Sunday night attacked travellers and commuters at Auno, a major village along Maiduguri-Damaturu road. The dead were among travellers and commuters who were returning to Maiduguri through Damaturu but were stranded at Auno following the routine closure of the road by the military at their checkpoint every 5pm. The closure usually force travellers and commuters to sleep over whenever the road is closed to continue the journey the following morning when the road is opened by the military. Auno which is in Konduga local government area of Borno State is 24km from Maiduguri and has been subject of attacks and abductions by the Boko Haram terrorists. The present attack occurred at a military  checkpoint where commuters are not allowed to pass after 5 pm and the victims were caught unaware by the fighters around 10pm Sunday night. A source that survived the attack and who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that corpses are still being brought into Maiduguri to hospitals for identification. The source said the Boko Haram terrorists abducted an undisclosed number of persons after killing and razing of vehicles. “ The insurgents abducted a number of women and children and killed not less than 30 people who are mostly motorists and destroyed 18 vehicles,” the source said. Meanwhile, Borno State governor, Babagana Umara Zulum who visited the scene this morning to assess the level of destruction and killings, called on the Army to create a unit in Auno to curtail further destruction of lives and property by the terrorists in Auno and the Maiduguri- Damaturu highway. Prof Zulum, accompanied by the Garrison Commander 7 Division Nigerian Army, regretted that this is the sixth time the terrorists will be attacking Auno. “ We have made repeated call for the military to establish a unit in Auno. What the Army usually does is to close this gate by between 4:30pm to 5pm after which they will withdraw.” “I have been briefed that over 30 persons lost their lives to this attack.  So there is the need for the presence of soldiers permanently on this route,” the governor said. Zulum sympathised with the victims and assured his administration and President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s commitment towards ending the insurgency.