The Supreme Court will today decide whether or not to entertain appeals by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for a review of its verdicts on Zamfara and Imo states governorship elections respectively. CHIBUZO UKAIBE and ANGELA NKWO-AKPOLU, in this piece capture the debates and intrigues ahead of today’s sitting Barring last minute changes, the Supreme Court will today decide whether it would review its pronouncement on governorship appeals  on Zamfara and Imo states, while every political watcher is on edge. The apex court had nullified the victory of all candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the 2019 general elections in Zamfara State. After the August 22, 2019 decision where the court struck out the APC’s application counsel to the APC, Chief Robert Clarke (SAN) filed another application in November 2019. A five-man panel of the Supreme Court, led by Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour, had on August 22, 2019 unanimously struck out the application on the grounds that it was incompetent as the complete judgments of the apex court comprising all the judgments of the five members of the panel being contested by the party were not attached to the application. The apex court had dismissed the appeal challenging the nullification of the APC primary elections in Zamfara. By this situation, the PDP candidate, Bello Matawalle who scored 189,452 to emerge second in the governorship election, emerged governor of the state. The total registered voters in the state stood at 1,717,128 while the accredited voters were 823,294 with 792,938 as total valid votes. At its sitting, the court voided all votes cast for the party during the general elections at the state level, from guber poll to state assembly. The apex court ordered that the runner-up candidate be sworn in. “Candidate other than the first appellant with the highest vote stand elected. A cost of N10 million is awarded against the appellant,” the court ruled. The appeal was filed by Mukhtar Shehu, the state governor-elect, challenging the judgment of a Sokoko appellate court which nullified the ruling party’s primaries in the state. The court of appeal had set aside the judgment delivered by the Zamfara high court allowing the APC to field candidates in the 2019 elections. It ruled that the High Court failed to evaluate the evidence before reaching the decision. Following the ruling of the appellate court, INEC withheld certificates of return of the governor-elect and that of the lawmakers-elect. The party and its candidates then filed an appeal seeking that the appellate court’s ruling is set aside and that their certificates of return be awarded. In the case of Imo State, the apex court on January 14, 2020 ordered the removal of Chief Emeka Ihedioha as the governor and in his stead, ruled that Senator Hope Uzodinma be sworn in as the new helmsman. The apex court had accepted an extra 213,295 votes which Senator Uzodinma said was denied him from 388 polling booths which saw him garner the highest number of votes and consequently emerge governor. Before the decision of the Supreme Court, Uzodinma had 310,153 votes as against the 96,458 votes INEC declared for him. While Ihedioha polled a total of 273,404 votes; and Senator Ifeanyi Ararume (APGA) polled 114,676 votes. The same court had disqualified Chief Uche Nwosu (AA) 190,364 votes due to double candidature. For the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and erstwhile governor, Rt Hon Emeka Ihedioha, it is a prayer that the apex court should reverse itself and install him again as the number one man in Imo. On his part, Governor Hope Uzodinma and candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), his prayer is that the apex court should ignore the review sought by his predecessor and that he should be retained as the Governor of Imo State. Before the emergence of Uzodinma, almost everyone had decamped to the PDP, following the declaration of Ihedioha as the governor by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The state Assembly then was controlled by PDP who had majority. However the January 14 verdict of the Supreme court changed all that. Now everyone is seeking refuge in the APC. Majority of the lawmakers dumped their former parties for the APC which now controls the State Assembly. It has also been a season of protests and rallies, either to protest Ihedioha’s ouster or to support Uzodinma’s emergence. Almost everyday in Owerri, people wake up to traffic congestion occasioned by mammoth crowd either calling for the return of Ihedioha or validation of Uzodinma’s mandate. Different groups have held press conferences to declare support for either Ihedioha or Uzodinma even outside the shores of Nigeria. Last Sunday, acting chairman and members of Imo Elders Council called on the Supreme Court to uphold the election of Uzodinma, just as maverick showbiz crooner, Charles Oputa popularly called Charley Boy demanded the return of Ihedioha. At the national level, the leadership of PDP has held protests at various international offices, including the United Nations, European Union, US embassy, UK High Commission, French Embassy amongst others. However, a senior lawyer in Imo State, who pleaded anonymity for fear of being accused of partisanship, said the issues before the apex court are hydra headed. He said, “political supporters don’t understand the dilemma before the apex court. How did Uzodinma garner such number of votes and his party failed to clinch any Assembly seat abinitio? Look, if you recompute the results added in his favour, then the integrity of the Supreme court is called to question. “APC should not celebrate yet because Ihedioha has a good case. Already the international community is awaiting the outcome of this same matter. I  foresee a rerun between Ihedioha and Uzodinma to settle this quagmire once and for all.” On his part, lawyer and president of the Civil Liberties Organization (CLO), Barrister Wisdom Durueke posits differently. According to him, the raging issue before the apex court is whether the application can be heard in view of the statutory period for hearing election appeals. Durueke said, “My argument will be that this is not an appeal, it is an application. But the fundamental question will be an application in respect of what, and I say an application related to an election appeal and that would pose quite an interesting issue today and some of us will be glad to know how the Supreme court will resolve the issue.” According to him, another issue begging for answers will be the position of the apex court if it holds that the application is proper, “It is an exception to the 60 days period for hearing appeals in respect of hearing appeal matters before the Supreme court,” he said. The fiery lawyer argued that the matter would test everything the Supreme court is known for, as it relates to constitutionalism. Durueke explained further, “The next issue will be whether that application does not amount to inviting the Supreme Court to seat on appeal over its own verdict, its own decision and that will be quite interesting. It will be interesting because the court will decide if all the issues raised were foreseeable at the time the appeal was on, or at the time the matter was on. Are they foreseeable or were they issues that arose then but were glossed over.” The constitutional lawyer maintained that the matter would put the Supreme Court on limelight, whichever position it takes. “This is going to be an interesting matter that the Supreme Court will resolve. It is no fun because the court will be rising up to a very important occasion. “However, it is not the first time the court will be seeing such contentious matter. I believe they are equal to the task, to do justice in respect of the application to the parties before the apex court.” While Durueke refused to support any party, he called for justice backed with law. According to him,  “For the parties, I pray that justice and law will prevail. We talk about justice and law because in our jurisprudence, we talk about justice and law. The law has to give justice. If you are talking about only justice, it becomes very academic and fluid. So whenever you talk about justice in matters in court, you have to talk about the law in court too.” Another analyst, Mbadiwe Emelumba, believes that the Supreme Court was right in declaring  Uzodinma governor of the state based on the merit of the case. Emelumba further lampooned the PDP for resorting to use of “brutal confrontation” on the judiciary and the supreme court over the judgement. “By staging almost a global protest against the supreme court over the aforesaid judgement, during which they rained incredulous abuses on the judges and flagrantly assaulted thier integrity as well, they made a public statement to the effect that the  ,wrong though, that the eminent Jurists that populate the apex court, were men and women  of questionable integrity “By inviting the international community, that is, world powers, to interfere and force the supreme court to reverse its judgement on the Imo case, they made the statement that the highest court in the land can be intimidated and or blackmailed into doing the bidding of anyone with the highest destructive nuisance value. “By publicly and brazenly issuing  ultimatums and stern directives to the Supreme  court to reverse itself on the Imo  case or they will unleash anarchy in the land, they have also made the statement that  such  a revered institution as the supreme court can be threatened with reckless impunity and nothing will happen,” he argued. On the merit of the case, Emelumba said, the APC and its candidate, Uzodinma went to Court asking that those excluded results from 388 polling units which had been declared at that level, should be added to them in the overall tally of votes. “Their contention was that they won the election, and ought to have been declared winners in the first place. It took PDP and its lawyers four days at the tribunal to dissuade it from admitting those exhibits. Eventually, the tribunal called in the police which authenticated the results.” He added that it was strange that the tribunal gave its judgment in favour of Ihedioha even in the face of overwhelming evidence to the contrary. Adding that, “APC members did not go to the streets to protest. Even when Ihedioha was declared wrongly by INEC, APC being the ruling party in Imo State did not embark upon violent protests. It sought justice through the courts. And a member of the Appeal Court gave ruling in favour of APC and Uzodinma, which finally paved way for the Supreme Court’s ruling. “It is instructive that PDP which claimed that Uzodinma produced ‘fake’ results from those units could not produce the ‘authentic originals’. Like the Supreme Court wisely declared, the onus was on INEC to disprove with contrary documents the ones submitted by Uzodinma and APC. “The judgment was not even whether Ihedioha met the constitutional requirement or not. It was simply on the fact that votes validity scored by APC and Uzodinma in 388 polling units were criminally excluded by INEC with the help of its collaborator, PDP. That was what the Supreme Court calculated and relied upon to retrieve Uzodinma’s stolen mandate. The highest court in the land simply gave its judgment based on the principles of law.” Emelumba further argued that it was ironical that the PDP didn’t castigate the Supreme Court which had previously given rulings that favoured it. He however urged the federal government and the security agencies to take more than a passing interest in the unfolding national security threat being championed by PDP and her leaders. “Whereas democracy guarantees freedom of speech, association and even movement, it certainly abhors the seizure of government through violence and orchestrated anarchy. Democracy supports the change of government through the ballot as expressed by Nigerians and reinforced by the courts of the land. Any other thing to the contrary is treason and should be treated as such,” he cautioned. Meanwhile, there was tension in Imo State yesterday as people gathered in groups discussing ahead of the Supreme Court hearing today. Political juggernauts from the state have since relocated to Abuja, obviously to show loyalty and appear at the winner’s place. Churches are engaged in different programs to pray for divine intervention just as traditional rulers are falling over themselves with congratulatory messages for Uzodinma. Obviously the Imo lawmakers are not left out. But whichever way it goes, one thing is obvious, all eyes remain on Imo State for a long time.