Taxation of the informal sector has the opportunity for revenue authorities in Nigeria and other African countries to increase revenue mobilisation and reduce budget deficits, the executive chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and chairman of the African Tax Administration Forum (ATAF), Mohammad Nami has said. Beyond that, the FIRS chairman said taxing the informal sector may also be a way of promoting good governance and political accountability of the state because tax strengthens the social contract between the citizens and the government. “If Africa is to reduce its budget deficits and increase revenue mobilisation, it must widen its tax base and the informal sector provides an opportunity to do so,” Mr Nami said yesterday at the 9th ATAF country correspondents’ conference and 1st experts meeting on taxation of the informal sector in Abuja. The country correspondents’ and representatives of the Africa Development Bank (AfDB) are expected to brainstorm and come up with solutions on how to tax the informal sector in order to build an African model of informal sector taxation. The 2-day meeting is aimed at providing input for the development of a comprehensive handbook with practical guidelines to ATAF member countries on how to tax the informal sector. It is estimated that the informal sector in Africa constitutes between 21 per cent – 70 per cent of the GDP of African countries and accounts for between 30-90 per cent of employment in the region. Yet despite its large size, the sector remains one of the most difficult sectors to tax, with most of the businesses operating in the sector concealing their activities from the Tax Authorities. The ATAF chairman said taxing the informal sector is viewed as politically unpopular and politicians are unwilling to risk losing the high number of votes represented in the sector. “This is because politicians usually promise informal workers protection from taxation in exchange for their votes,” he added. Executive secretary of ATAF, Mr Logan Wort said over the past four years, “through our country assistance and technical programme, we have helped eighth of our members to access more than $1 billion in taxes, $300 million of which is already in the bank.” He said in the past 10 years ATAF has trained 16,000 tax officials; 500 tax auditors.  Apart from that, Wort said in the last 16 years “we have graduated 85 Masters Degree students in French and English Masters Degree, offered through ATAF. We published more than 300 academic policy and administrator academic papers through the African Tax Research Network. And we have produced the most formidable tax statistics publication anywhere on African tax statistics. 10 years ago nobody thought it was possible.” The meeting is expected to bring together officials from Treasury and Revenue Authorities as well as experts from across Africa to share experiences on practical and effective ways of taxing the informal sector. The objective of the meeting is to assist the ATAF Secretariat to develop, among other products, a comprehensive handbook with practical guidelines to ATAF member countries on how to tax the informal sector.