The shocking sack of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governor-elect, David Lyon, a day to his inauguration as Bayelsa State governor, is now etched in the annals of Nigeria’s political history. It is going to remain a reference point for years to come on how a party leadership should not conduct party affairs in an election. MUYIWA OYINLOLA writes. Penultimate Thursday, when the then governor-in-waiting of Bayelsa State, David Lyon of the APC, was putting finishing touches to his next day inauguration programme as the 5th elected governor of the oil-rich state, the news came from the temple of the Supreme Court that his election has been nullified based on a case of certificate forgery proved against his running mate and deputy governor-elect, Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo. The political atmosphere in Bayelsa changed almost immediately as it was not readily clear who will be the beneficiary of the APC loss even though the Supreme Court verdict was clear as to who should be the next winner in place of the APC candidates, whom the apex court said had no business in the election in the first place. The next day, Senator Douye Diri, who was the candidate of the PDP in the November 16, 2019 governorship election and his running mate, were sworn-in as governor and deputy governor of Bayelsa State respectively, being the next candidates with the highest number of lawful votes cast and the required spread. According to informed sources, what makes the loss to be considered as colossal by APC members is the fact that it could not only have been avoided easily, but there have been recent experiences that could have guided the national leadership of the party on what to and not do. There was a similar case in Taraba State, where a candidate’s infractions cost the party dearly. In Zamfara State, the party’s apparatus is in shambles due to acts of impunity by few persons. On several occasions, the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has been accused  of highhandedness, a development some party faithful say was responsible for recent misfortunes of APC during the 2019 elections and aftermath. The Rivers state episode is even more heartbreaking for members of the party in the state, as the party could not even present a candidate during the elections. Some of these issues played out in Oyo State, while other instances can be cited in Ogun State. In view of all the above scenarios, the preponderance of views by pundits and party loyalists, is that if the person heading the party has the requisite leadership quotient, he would have learnt a few lessons from these experiences. A highly placed party member, who does not want his name metioned, told LEADERSHIP Sunday that if the trend continues, the forthcoming Edo and Ondo goverorship elections have been won and lost even before the exercise. “Now we are heading for elections in Edo and Ondo States. What would happen in Edo State is already in fixed deposit. Comrade Oshiomhole has continuously and intentionally been promoting disaffection in the party. “Even though the Edo State governor is performing so well, because he wants to be the only one to call the shots, Oshiomhole is fueling crisis to destabilise the party and the state government,” the APC stalwart said. One of the frontrunners of Oshiomhole’s campaign to unseat the incumbent Edo State governor, Andrew Obaseki, is the former governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who recently defected to the APC. It is interesting to note that other aspirants being projected by the APC national chairman are people he has had to say damning things about in the past when they were on different political divides. Oshiomhole, for instance, has publicly accused his erstwhile deputy governor, Dr. Pius Odubu, of being a thief and a herbalist. The same can be traced to other aspirants he is now projecting. In Ondo, something of similar proportion is happening with rumours that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu is likely going to be ambushed in order to stop his re-election quest. Consequetly, there are ongoing debates in some quarters of the party that Oshiomhole should go because he allegedly lacks the aptitude and temperament to occupy the office of the APC national chairman. “He does not have the disposition and attitude. If nothing is done urgently, the ruling party will pay the ultimate price. “Members of the party are already losing faith because they see it as essentially a one-man-show. The approach of operating like a bull in a China shop has not gotten us anywhere, at best it has set the party further on the path of perdition. “What led to the downfall of the PDP is playing out actively in the APC with the way Oshiomhole is handling the affairs of the party. Once members lose confidence in the leadership of the party, they either be inert or go elsewhere. Our party promised change, now it can not even manage its own affairs because of the actions and inactions of one man.” On the Bayelsa episode, it must be pointed out that it is unforgivable to adopt an individual who presented five certificates with different names and when it was spotted, the party hierarchy failed to take advantage of the window to substitute the candidate before the election. However, there is a consensus among the party members at different levels, that all the flaws flow from the dysfunctional leadership which promotes might over right and has absolute disregard for due process and the law, which they believe is the hallmark of Oshiomhole’s leadership style. “The damage done by Comrade Oshiomhole to the APC is incalculable. It happened in Taraba, in Zamfara and in Rivers because of the same recourse to subverting established norms for personal interest. “Comrade Oshiomhole is hiding under the shadow of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) to carry out these heinous infractions against the party. He has been conducting the party’s affairs from his castle in Aso Drive in Abuja, alienating all else and leaving the National Secretariat desolate,” the APC stalwart pointed out. It will be recalled that after the loss in the governorship election in Taraba State on the basis of age falsification by the party’s candidate, Oshiomhole promised to constitute committees to screen candidates so the party would guard against fielding candidates with questionable backgrounds and other flaws, which the opposition party could latch on to snatch victory at the court after losing at the polls. However, the APC national chairman’s recent actions have apparently betrayed this charge given the latest Bayelsa experience. Also, the proponents of Oshiomhole-must-go campaign opine that with the Bayelsa loss to APC, it has been established that what Oshiomhole says is different from what he does. It is now left to be seen what becomes of Oshiomhole’s fate as the national chairman of the ruling APC in the coming weeks or months and as the Edo and Ondo governorship contests approach.