The Senate yesterday confirmed the nomination of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as director-general of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Nuhu’s confirmation was sequel to the consideration of the report on the screening of the nominee by the Senate Committee on Aviation. Chairman of the Committee, Senator Smart Adeyemi (APC – Kogi West), in his presentation said that the “nominee has requisite experience and possesses relevant academic and professional qualifications.” “Arising from his wealth of experience in the aviation sector, the committee considers Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu, suitable for appointment as Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority”, Adeyemi added. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, on January 28, 2020, read a request on the floor from President Muhammadu Buhari for the confirmation of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as Director-General for the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). The letter reads: “Pursuant to Section 8, Part IV of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (Establishment) Act, I hereby write to request for a confirmation by the Senate, the appointment of Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu as the Director-General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority. “Captain Musa Shuaibu Nuhu is a reputable airline Pilot and Aviation Safety Expert with well over 30 years of cognate working experience in the Aviation Industry.” Earlier, the senate at plenary considered five bills that passed through  first reading. The bills are: 1999  Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Alteration Bill 2020 sponsored by Sen. Ovie Omo- Agege (APC Delta ),Investment Assurance Bill, 2020 by Sen. Stella Oduah ,(PDP Anambra),Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act 2004 Repeal and Re-enactment Bill,2020 sponsored by Sen. Biodun Olujumi. Others are Nigerian Arabic Language Village Ngala Establishment Bill,2020 by Sen. Shettima Kashim (APC Borno) and Nigerian Army University Biu Establishment Bill 2020 by Sen. Ali Ndume (APC Borno). The Senate also considered for second reading a bill for an Act to establish  the Federal University of Health Sciences, Otukpo, Benue State to make for comprehensive provision for its management. The bill was sponsored by Sen.Abba Moro (PDP Benue). Other bills considered for second reading at Plenary are; A bill for the establishment of Federal University of Medicine and Medical Sciences, Abeokuta  Ogun State and for other matters sponsored by Sen. Ibikunle Amosun (APC Ogun); A bill for an Act to establish  the Nigerian Civil Defence Academy Pandogari to serve as an institution of high level manpower development to train civil defence officers. The bill was sponsored by Sen. Musa Sani (APC Niger).