The submissions of the Zamfara State Projects Verification Committee on the eight-year tenure of the immediate past administration of former Governor Abdulaziz Yari have elicited varied reactions from across the state’s political spectrum. In this report, ANDREW ESSIEN takes a look at the issues raised. In recent times in Nigeria’s contemporary history, most new governments, especially those who are fortunate enough to unseat another party to gain the reins of power, will often set up committees to ascertain the ‘true state’ of affairs upon assumption of office whether at the state or federal level. Usually, the outgoing government, at the twilight of its tenure, will often embark of last-minute commission of projects and even award some new ones when they know the remaining time they have might not be enough for the completion. On several occasions, these projects become booby-traps for the new administration as it has to be saddled with disentangling itself from the myriad of issues it has to contend with arising from several of the often inflated and at other times, non-existent  projects. This is worse in states that are not, in Nigeria’s case, blessed with petroleum resources that gives them the leverage to spend resources at will because of the financial ‘war chest’ at their disposal. These new administrations are now faced with trying to make sense out of what they have on ground and before they even get a grip of government, their tenure is over and an electioneering period commences. In the case of Zamfara state like other states of the federation, despite the rich mineral resources in the state, it has sadly been categorized as one of the poorest and poverty stricken states in the country. In fact, besides when Shari’a law was introduced and more recently when bandits took over the state, little was known about the high deposit of gold in the state and the activities of miners-foreign and domestic. According to Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in its 2019 report, 10 poorest states in Nigeria according to the are; Sokoto, Kastina, Adamawa, Gombe Jigawa Plateau, Ebonyi, Bauchi, Kebbi and Zamfara States. With 70.8 percent poverty rate, Zamfara was ranked by the NBS as the 10th poorest state in the country.  The question on the minds of analysts is; what has all the Chief Executives of the state been doing with state resources that the peoples lot has not improve over the years? Upon assumption of office, the current governor, Bello Matawalle, who was elected governor on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) thought it wise to raise an inquest into the two terms of his predecessor, Abdulaziz Yari. Sadly, the discovery of alleged financial mismanagement against the former administration explains why the state may find it difficult to swim out of the pool of poverty for a long time to come if drastic and concerted efforts are not made. Following the submission of interim report by the Zamfara State Project Verification Committee set up six months ago, Committee report unraveled various allegations of corruption and mismanagement of funds during the tenure of Yari. Chairman of the committee, Alhaji Ahmad Zabarma in the report submitted to the governor said that during the past eight years, most organs of government degenerated into lawless organisations where impunity prevailed.  He said that corruption was prevalent in all sectors of the economy in the state because many officers refused to obey the laws put in place to ensure good governance. However, Yari, through his aides had released a statement showing that he was performing governor, credited with many achievements during his tenure.  Evidence abound of both current and former senior Federal Government officials visiting Zamfara on an annual basis to eulogize the performance of Yari. Professor Yemi Osinbajo was in Zamfara State on an annual basis from 2016 to 2018. In 2018 the Vice President was in Zamfara State in his capacity as the Acting President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He commissioned projects in Bakura and Talata Mafara Local Government Areas, projects which included the solar powered borehole to provide water for the people of Gamji, the Abubakar Tanau Model Primary School and the Government Girls Secondary School Talata Mafara amongst others. On this particular occasion, Osinbajo could not hide his joy at the exponential development in Zamfara State, Yari’s media handlers argued. However, according to the inquest committee, it discovered that the sum of N2 billion was provided as loan from the Federal Government in 2014 for the purpose of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). It said it was regrettable that after a lot of paper work was done between the Chamber of Commerce and the then Managing Director, Investment House and imaginary beneficiaries, only the Chairman Chamber of Commerce allegedly benefitted from the N2 billion loan. He received only N5 million, saying that this was clearly attested to the Committee by the Chairman himself. The committee noted that till date, no one can say where the remaining N1.9 billion went except Yari, Fatima Umaru Shinkafi, some members of the House of Assembly, Commissioners and top government officials who shared the money among themselves to the detriment of the wellbeing of the people of Zamfara State through Small and Medium Enterprises. Moreso, the committee uncovered that the sum of N17 billion bailout funds was received from federal government, but alleged that the money practically vanished between Yari, Ministry of Finance and the State House of Assembly who initially assented to N6 billion for the construction of Gusau International Airport. The committee further alleged that Yari expended the sum of N10 billion which cannot be traced to meaningful and verifiable projects. It said in many cases involving huge amounts of money, the Ministry of Finance has refused to cooperate with the Committee. Aside that, the it alleged that the sum of N5 billion was equally paid into the account of the Commodity Marketing and Distribution Board  from the CBN after the Board received directives from the then Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance to reactivate its dormant account. “This money was paid on the 7th February, 2019 into the account of Dambazau Global Investment Company but nothing was supplied, the money just vanished and should be recovered.” The committee equally found out that the sum of N1.7 billion was expended on School Feeding programmes for feeding students per year. It said that only N875, 455,995.52 or 50% of this amount was spent in providing extremely poor and inadequate meals to children per month. It said, “The balance of N875,455,995.52 was siphoned by the contractors, the officials and commissioners of the Commission, the powers that be, some or all of the principals. This has been going on since the creation of this commission and nobody, not even our Islamic clerics, our parents, our traditional rulers; our politicians have frowned against this. In the past eight years N7,003,647,960.00 was illegally siphoned by the Feeding Commission alone.” The committee added, “As in the case of the missing N5 billion for purchase of essential agricultural commodities with the Commodity Marketing and Distribution Board, the state government received a loan through the CBN amounting to N5 billion for purchase of agricultural inputs. The money was transferred into the account of a Bureau de Change organisation in five N1 billion tranches. Nothing was heard of the money or the agricultural inputs since then.” “The State government under the previous administration purchased vehicles to the tune of N8.4 billion (N8,400,542,879.00) only. Of these, 1,550 vehicles were said to have been purchased but only 531 have been documented. The remaining 1,119 vehicles or 65% of the number purchased amounting to over N5 billion were not properly documented. This calls for serious investigation.” “In the eight years of Abdul’aziz Yari’s tenure, over 110 exotic vehicles were purchased and allocated to Yari, his deputy, his wives, friends, and political, economic, social, associates.  Most of these vehicles could not be traced as at May 29th, 2019 except for the 20 exotic vehicles found when EFCC raided Yari’s residence. These vehicles constitute almost 20% of the total number of 531 vehicles that have been documented out of 1,550 that are said to be purchased. The beneficiaries of these exotic (110+) vehicles are highlighted in appendix 1 in the main report.” The report pointed out that during the period under review 2011—2019, the amount of internally generated revenue stood at N32.6 billion. Out of this amount, the sum of N377,447,887.71 was paid as consultancy services for virtually doing nothing. In summary, the report uncovered that, “Under administration sector, the sum of N12.5 billion, economic sector N64.4 billion, environmental N13 billion and social sector N254 million totaling over N90.3 billion were discovered as over invoicing by contractors, government officials, consultants and beneficiaries should be refunded to the state government. Yari’s sympathizers have argued that it has become a norm for incumbent governors especially if their predecessor is of the opposition to accuse him of treasury looting. They insist that notable citizens have commissioned projects executed in Zamfara State by the Yari administration over the years, including the Honorable Minister of Defense Brig. Gen. Mansur Dan Ali (rtd.), who was honoured to commission the Command Secondary School for Boys in Talata Mafara and the first Command Secondary School for Girls in Nigeria located in Gusau. He also commissioned the Motorized Water Borehole project in Furfuri town. At Yari’s sixth anniversary, the then Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, Minister of Science and Technology Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, and the then National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun amongst others, were on hand to commission various developmental projects of the Yari administration. The governor of Katsina State Aminu Bello Masari, former governor of Zamfara State, Ahmed Sani Yerima and many other prominent Nigerians were in Zamfara at one time or the other during Yari’s two terms in office to commission some of these projects. Many of these citizens some of whom are still in office till date including the Vice President Professor Osinbajo, called on other governors to emulate the giant strides of the then Governor Yari. With the foregoing, it is hoped that persons who are entrusted with public offices must now be held accountable for their actions in and out of government especially as the much talked about dividends of democracy continues to elude the populace.