The government of Nasarawa State has carried out a major shake-up in the Nasarawa State public service. The shake-up which affects three major institutions in the State namely the College of Education Akwanga, Isa Mustapha Agwai I Polytechnic Lafia and the Nasarawa United Football Club, was announced via a series of press releases all signed by the Secretary to the Nasarawa State Government, Tijani Aliyu Ahmed. For the Isa Mustapha Agwai I Polytechnic Lafia, Mrs Jiriko Ruth R. was appointed as Acting Rector of the institution. According to the statement announcing her appointment, it was in line with the desire of the administration of Governor Abdullahi A. Sule to actualize the vision contained in the Nasarawa Economic Development Strategy (NEDS) document. The announcement also states that the appointment of Mrs Jiriko Ruth takes immediate effect and is for a period of 6 months for the first instance. In the sister institution, the College of Education Akwanga, Governor Abdullahi Sule constituted a committee consisting of six persons, to investigate the activities of the institution. This is not unconnected to recent developments that led to protests by students of the institution on February 10, 2020. The committee is to be chaired by Ishaka Ahmed Galadima a retired permanent secretary with Mrs Comfort Ewuga the Director of Admin and Supplies in the Nasarawa State Ministry of Education, Science and Technology serving as secretary of the committee. Other members of the investigative committee include the State Auditor-General, Rayyanu Lamus, another retired permanent secretary Yairus G. Dagusa, Chief Accountant of the Federal Polytechnic Nasarawa Hajiya Amina Abdullahi and Mohammed Aliyu Mailafiya of the College of Agriculture Lafia. Consequently, His Excellency, Engr. Abdullahi Sule approved the suspension of the Governing Council and management of the College of Education Akwanga pending the outcome of the report of the investigative committee. In the statement making the announcement, Governor Sule also “approved and directed that, the Provost of the College, the Registrar, the Bursar and the Desk Officer in-charge of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) should proceed on compulsory leave with immediate effect until further notice. “Meanwhile, His Excellency, the Governor and the Visitor of the College has approved the appointment of an Interim Administrator for the State College of Education, Akwanga in the person of Dr. Roseline Kela.” For the Nasarawa United Football Club, the Governor approved the dissolution of the present management ‘with immediate effect’. The Governor also approved the appointment of a new management team which has Barr. Isaac Danladi as Chairman and Solomon Babanja as Member/Team Manager. Others include Mr Rengo Jaafaru, Nuhu Liman Jinka and Rilwanu Idris. According to the statement making the announcement, their appointment takes immediate effect and is in furtherance of the government’s commitment to reposition and rebrand the football club.