Over 100 association have applied to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) seeking to be registered as political parties, LEADERSHIP has gathered. But the current 91 political parties may be facing deregistration as a committee set-up for their verification has submitted it report, which sources said is being considered. Political Parties likely to be deregistered, according to the report, are those who performed poorly in the 2019 general elections and the rerun elections conducted in January, 2020. On the over 100 associations seeking to be registered as political parties, LEADERSHIP gathered from competent sources that there is ongoing verification to ensure they met the requirements. If all of the associations met the requirements and are registered as political parties, the number of political platforms likely to be available for Nigerians to contest the 2023 general election could be over 200. But this is coming just as INEC is set to deregister some political parties that did not performed well in the general election. The deregistration, it was gathered, is inline with Section 78 (7a) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), which gives the commission power to deregister political parties. “There are over 100 applications from associations seeking registration as political parties. There will certainly be more,” a source in the commission familiar with the development told LEADERSHIP. “The registration of political associations is a continuous exercise and many applications are in different stages of consideration,” he added. On the submission of a report set-up to verify whether some political parties should be deregistered, the source said INEC is considering it. “The report of the verification exercise is being considered by the commission,” he said. The spokesman to the INEC chairman, Mr Rotimi Oyekanmi, said even though the commission has power to deregister political parties, said he is not aware of such plan. “However, the commission does have the power under Section 78 (7a) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) to deregister political parties under specific grounds,” Oyekanmi said. Meanwhile, INEC said it officers nationwide are not partisant and should not be drag into partisanship. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, who stated this in a statement urged politicains to stop dragging the commission into partisanship. He said the commission have obeyed the Supreme Court judgement on Imo state but added that they did not agree with it. “INEC conducted general elections in 2019 to fill 1,558 positions. Arising from the conduct of the elections, some of the Political Parties and Candidates filed Petitions before the various Election Petitions Tribunals and Courts to ventilate their grievances and all the Petitions have been determined. For the records, a total of 807 post-election petitions were filed, out of which 582 were dismissed, 183 withdrawn by the petitioners and only 30 petitions, representing less than 2% of the total resulted in orders by the Tribunals and Courts to the Commission to rerun the elections. “Subsequently, the Commission conducted court-ordered re-run elections in 30 Constituencies in 12 States of the federation and made declarations and returns. In the re-run elections in the South East of Nigeria, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) won the election in 2 Constituencies in Abia State. “In the 3 Constituencies where the Commission conducted elections in Imo State, the Action Alliance (AA), the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) secured one seat each. “The commission conducted the court-ordered re-run elections under very difficult circumstances occasioned by the desperation and unwholesome activities of some of the political actors bent on compromising and disrupting the process, thus endangering the safety of the staff and attempting to secure their predetermined outcomes. “Staff of the Commission risked their lives, performed under delicate conditions and engaged in electoral operations aimed at protecting the integrity of the process and ensuring credible outcomes. “The Commission’s code of conduct ensures that all our staff remain non-partisan in the discharge of their official duties. This is the only way they can maintain the delicate balance between all the contending political parties and candidates in the political process. “It is therefore unhelpful and counterproductive to profile senior staff of the Commission operating in any part of the country and paint them with the brush of partisanship just to score political points,” Okoye said. “Furthermore, the Commission will resist the invitation to be drawn into the debate on the propriety, correctness or otherwise of the decisions of the various Election Petitions Tribunals and the Courts as the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) have clearly and comprehensively delineated the powers and areas of jurisdiction of various institutions of our democracy. Decisions of courts and tribunal are final and the rule of law dictates that all authorities and persons give effect to them. “Rather, the Commission will focus on its efforts and that of other institutions to bring about necessary reforms to give Nigerians comprehensive and robust electoral framework that will take care of perceived and identified flaws and lacunae in the electoral process. “The Commission enjoins Political Parties and Candidates to develop the democratic spirit and assist the Commission in the conduct of free and transparent elections. “We assure Nigerians that the Commission will remain focused and determined to continue with improvements in the electoral process and solidify the sovereign right of the Nigerian people to freely choose their representatives,” the statement added. On the fire incidents that took place in it’s Anambra and Imo state offices, Okoye said the two fire incidents were reported at INEC offices in Idemili North Local Government area in Anambra State and Orlu Local Government Area in Imo state at the weekend. “The commission has reported the two incidents to the Police and Fire Service in the respective states and investigations are underway to determine the causes. Although, no life was lost, the extent of the damage is still being assessed,”INEC added.