…As Fashola commissions FMBN financed housing  estate in Gombe Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State alongside minister of Works and Housing,  Babatunde Raji Fashola yesterday performed the official commissioning of 150 housing units financed by  the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, FMBN through  the Gombe State Investment and Property Development Company. Speaking at the occasion, Governor Inuwa Yahaya said his administration remains committed to the provision of shelter to the people of the state, even as he assured to key into federal government’s housing policies, especially the cooperative housing scheme for the benefit of the people of the state. He said as a one time Commissioner of Finance and Economic Development as well as the chairman of the Gombe State Investment and Property Development Company, he ensured that the state keyed into the National Housing Fund while sustaining deductions from beneficiaries through the Nigerian Labor Congress NLC. Governor Inuwa Yahaya told the gathering that the provision of houses to the people of the state will continue to preoccupy the policy thrust of his administration and therefore thanked the federal  government for choosing Gombe as the pilot state for the flag off of the Cooperative Housing Development Scheme. He commended the Buhari administration for its efforts in meeting the housing needs of Nigerians and creating employment while executing such projects. Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola said the federal government is committed to providing housing to Nigerians irrespective of their socio-economic or political background. He said the federal government has introduced the Housing Cooperative Development Scheme aimed at making housing more affordable and accessible to all Nigerians. The minister said that the idea is for people to acquire their own lands, organise themselves into registered cooperatives and get titles of the land from the state government. The minister who commended the commitment of the Gombe State government’s partnership with the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria in the provision of houses to the people of the state, said the state will be the first to benefit from the Cooperative Housing Development Scheme in the North east. Manging director of Federal Mortgage Bank, Ahmed Musa Dangiwa, described the inauguration of the housing project as an affirmation that the National Housing Fund,  NFH scheme is meeting its mandate of delivering decent and affordable houses to Nigerians, especially those within the medium and low-income bracket. The Acting managing director of Gombe State Investment and Property Development Company,  Mohammed Bashir Nuhu said the 150 Dukku road Housing Estate comprised of 62 units of 3-bedroom detached and 82 units of 2-bedroom detached bungalows. 