To achieve efficient child’s management, development, and eliminate common challenges in parenting the 21st century child, experts have stressed the need to embrace community parenting. The experts who spoke at the eight edition of the biannual parent summit with the theme, “Communal Parenting: The Lost Glory” organised by Foundation for Family Reformation, a non-governmental organisation saddled with the responsibility of helping parents raise the 21st century children, held in Lagos maintained that community parenting is pertinent to the process of nation building. They drew attention to children’s accessibility to online and social media usage, parents’ quality time with their children, religious settings and schools’ role in the nurturing of a child as key elements to be evaluated if a country must produce responsible leaders. Speaking at the event, the Head Pastor, Eden Ministry Int’l, Rev. Stephen Esu said, “There will be no effectual parenting if it is not done communally. Community parenting will solve almost all the problem of a nation because an individual that is loyal to his community will be a critical asset of development, where his consciousness will be to better the community and therefore diversify.”  He called for the incorporation of Nigeria’s age-old folklores that enhances morality in the society, into the school curricula, and for parents to partner, cooperate and support the teachers in bring up children with proper morals, as he observed that nothing has been found capable of replacing communal disciple be it psychologist, sociologist, pastors, teachers or the ubiquitous deliverance ministers. “If we ever want to restore and reform community parenting to have a better nation, the school curricula must take the first heat, and the church too as these two are most dominant structure of our community,” Esu said. Also speaking, an education consultant, Charity Samuel, emphasised the need for parents to set boundaries on how much access children have with social media by teaching them its etiquette, same way they are taught manners. According to the convener of the event and founder of the foundation, Dr. Oluwatoyin Ajayi-Osakwe, for Nigerians to elect people into offices that will properly discharge duties with the masses at heart, the first step begins when the parents, the community where such child grows, are deliberate and intentional about inculcating the right morals.