Lagos Africa’s modern mega city has an estimated population of about 22 million people and still counting, thereby dwarfing that of London and New York. Overtime, this has translated to massive traffic congestion often aggravated with specific problems such as infrastructural deficit which has  made its roads a nightmare.  In this report GEORGE OKOJIE takes a look at the traffic situation and steps being taken to tackle the problem.  That Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial hub is grappling with urban problems such as poor infrastructure and chaotic traffic congestion and its residents go through hardship in commuting within the city can no-longer be hidden. One area that has been given priority attention by the state government is the transportation sector, where it has come up with various initiatives aimed at catering for movement of the growing population of the state. Observers say the need to tackle the problem may have struck the inner thought of the present helmsman in the state Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu who had given priority attention to water transportation, adjudged to be the safest means of transportation in the world. To ease transportation challenges in the state, the governor said the state government collaborated with Uber and introduced UberBOAT on its waterways. Sanwo-Olu said, “The last couple of years have seen the Lagos State Government commit to building up infrastructure that supports multi-modal transportation, which includes water transport. “We collaborated with Uber on this because of the shared vision to utilize the waterways more as a means of decongesting the city. We remain excited at the prospect of scaling this initiative up and taking it further. Commenting on the new initiative, the state’s commissioner for Transportation Dr. Frederic Oladeinde said UberBOAT presents a unique opportunity to help improve mobility in the state by ramping up on water transportation as a means of getting people from one location to the other. Without mincing words, Oladeinde explained that water transportation in Lagos is expected to accommodate between 500,000 to 1 million passengers per day when fully operational and it is expected to decongest the roads. He said the waterways carries only between 70,000 to 100,000 passengers for now, saying the figure is quite low. The commissioner assured that the state government is currently making a lot of investment in the sector to provide all the needed facilities and equipment and make it as safe as possible. “We will make sure water transportation will be the next best thing in Lagos. Water transportation is the next frontier for this administration and that is why we are pumping a lot of resources into the sector. “We are investing a lot in water transportation, when you look at the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, he has prioritised water transportation as one of the modes that will take pressure off the roads and there is a lot of investments going in there. “We are making it as safe as possible and I can assure Lagosians that it would be one of the attractive modes in Lagos; currently we are working with Coca Cola that has invested in clearing wreckages from the water and we will encourage more private sector participation. The General Manager West Africa, Uber, Lola Kassim; explained that, “We are piloting UberBoat as a service that is focused on moving people from point A to point B via the Lagos waterways. “In this phase, the service will be available between the Five Cowries and Ikorodu Jetties. We are aware of the man hours and productivity that are lost every day due to vehicular traffic in Lagos State and are looking at ways to provide commuters with an easy and affordable way to get in and out of the city’s business districts. ‘’With UberBoat, riders can leave their cars at home and instead utilize the waterways as a means of getting around faster and with less stress. “We are aware of the man hours and productivity that are lost every day due to vehicular traffic in Lagos state and are looking at ways to provide commuters with an easy and affordable way to get in and out of the city’s business districts.” As Uber commenced its pilot phase in the country, LEADERSHIP Sunday learnt that the service will be available only on weekdays for the next two weeks and will cost 500 naira ($1.30) per trip. The boats will move four times during the day between the Ikorodu Ferry Terminal, northeast of Lagos, and the Falomo Cowries Terminal, according to the Uber statement. On his part, Damilola Emmanuel; Managing Director Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) said their mission is to develop the waterways in Lagos State as a means of giving the people of this great city more efficient options to get around. He said,’’ Because UberBOAT utilizes technology, then it means that the efficiency we seek is achieved, and we are able to bring the service to even more people within the city.” Speaking on the collaboration between Uber and LASWA, Tayo Oyegunle, Uber Country Manager for Nigeria said: “Uber first launched in Lagos, Nigeria in 2014 with the Lagos State Government being a key stakeholder. Over the last several years, we’ve built lasting partnerships with public transportation agencies around the world, because we understand how important it is to build on regulatory frameworks that modern cities provide. Conscious of the need to raise awareness, the General Manager, Lagos Traffic Radio, Tayo Akanle has said the Station will assist the State’s Ferry Services Corporation to step up the sensitization and raise awareness on movements on the waterways for enhanced productivity and decongest the roads. Akanle stated that the station has appreciable audience base and a strong online presence to successfully carry out this onerous task for the benefit of Lagosians. According to him, having unfettered access to accurate and seamless traffic information on movements on waterways from the Agency, would add value to commuters in Lagos while enriching the synergy existing between both agencies. Akanle stated that since the expansion of its frontier to include the provision of traffic information on other modes of transportation such as flight schedules and movements on the waterways rather than roads alone, the Station has already positioned itself to render this social service to Lagosians. According to him, “The partnership which will not only be of immense benefit to Lagoisians, it will also lay credence to the commitment of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to deliver a reliable, safe efficient and effective transportation system that will enhance mass movement of Lagosians”. The fact remains that though water transportation is adjudged as the safest means of transportation in the world, there is frequent loss of lives on Lagos water bodies. For lack of regulations, the few available life jackets worn by the boat passengers are in such poor state that they cannot sustain a marine recovery operation in case of an accident. This coupled with the problems of weather and hazardous waters, passenger and skipper behaviour, coupled with reckless operations made water transport a risky venture in the state. To this end, the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) had embarked on safety and awareness campaigns on waterways in Lagos to ensure accident free ember months. According to the Area Manager, Lagos, Engr Sarat Lara Braimah, the campaign is also targeted at sensitising passengers on compliance with the regulations of the movement of persons and goods on waterways. She told passengers and operators to make use of life jackets and avoid situations that may put boats at risk. The Lagos Area Manager while explaining the importance of life jackets on waterways, instructed boat operators not to board any intending water transportation user who failed or refused to wear life jackets. Her words, “This campaign operation is targeted at zero tolerance for unbecoming attitudes inimical to safety issues on Lagos waters and everyone who may wish to use the Waterways must embrace it. Life is important and NIWA in Lagos would not stand by and watch stakeholders take to flagrant disobedience to safety matters.’’ She noted that the campaign would cover Ikorodu, Badore, Epe, Liverpool, Badagry and Ajegunle waterfront jetties, all in Lagos throughout the festive season not excluding January 2020 and would be reviewed to stem any unwholesome activities among users of water transportation in Lagos. “This campaign will roll out in phases and we intend to also introduce patrol strategies as a backup to this one- to- one reach out. We expect feedback from the stakeholders on any potential challenge that may create anxieties particularly to smooth operation of boat services and any life threatening practices among boat operators,” Engineer Sarat Braimah added. “Apart from distribution of pamphlets and flyers detailing key safety watch list to passengers and operators, NIWA would also impound boats and life jackets which do not meet with certain operational specifications. She added that the Lagos area office is also targeting students and pupils from riverine communities for a special “must use” compliance of life jackets as part of the ember months campaign and a new safety measures to encourage use of water transportation in Lagos.