The conservator-general of National Park Service (NPS), Dr Ibrahim Musa Goni has called on stakeholders to support the seven national parks across the country towards the conservation of natural resources. He stated this while reacting to support materials donated to Gashaka Gumti National Park (GGNP) and Cross River National Park (CRNP) by the Taraba State government, Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) and among others. Goni hinted that the support-materials would help the park to provide quality services to Nigerians, adding that Nigerians have greater roles to play in preserving and conserving nature. According to him, “The ecosystem and wildlife constitute part of the nation’s heritage and this becomes important especially in this era of mounting insecurity and climate change”. He appreciated the Taraba State government and WCS for the invaluable assistance. Recall that the Taraba State government had through its commissioner for Works, Irmiya Hamman-Julde donated three new motorcycles to GGNP. Hamman-Julde said that the assistance was aimed at supporting the protection activities in the Park and addressing security challenges. He noted that the governor also approved the construction of the Mayo- Kam bridge and also considering the possibility of providing communication gadgets to the Park. The Conservator of Park, GGNP, Mr Kabir Mohammed, while receiving the motorcycles described the gesture as a welcome development, promising that it would be solely used in the protection of the park and security surveillance. He pleaded with other state governments to emulate the gesture. In Cross River, Arcus foundation, Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund, U.S Fish and Wildlife Service and the Rainforest Trust donated 10 motorcycles and helmets, 10 sleeping mats, 10 camping tents, 3 camera traps including security cases, master lock cables, 32GB memory cards with 18 packs of rechargeable batteries and 30 ponchos to CRNP. The country director of WCS, Mr Andrew Dunn noted that the items were meant for Okwangwo to protect the Cross River Gorilla even as he sought for proper handling of the support materials. Receiving the items, the CP of CRNP, Mrs Caroline Olory commended WCS for being progressive partners and called for more livelihood support to the host communities. 