There are fears of a possible outbreak of water borne disease in a community in Gwer local government area of Benue State. Fingers point at pollution of the community’s main sources of water supply. HEMBADOON ORSAR reports. No fewer than 40 dug-up wells in Kpe-Jande community in Gwer West local government area of Benue State, have been polluted with substances suspected to be fuel. The development has raised the fear of a possible outbreak of water borne disease among the residents. Residents have therefore called on the state government, security agencies, the state house of assembly and other relevant stakeholders to come to their aid before the situation gets out off hand. The Kpejande/High-level community has more than 3,000 residents and there are fears that if nothing is done to address the situation, the entire community may be in flames as many youths and commercial motorcyclists engage in scooping the suspected fuel to power their machines and vehicles. Some of the affected residents including the community leader, Mr Angba Francis, who spoke to LEADERSHIP Sunday during a visit to the community, expressed diverse challenges arising from the polluted wells, one of which is their source of drinking water which has become unbearable for domestic use. Mrs Terfa mbapuun whose house is about two blocks away from  from the alleged  fuel station, said her daughter was almost consumed in flames one morning when she was about to boil water she fetched from the well, adding that before she knew, it exploded and she sustained minor injuries in the process. Others who spoke on the development were Mr Nyigba Geoffery and Gerrard Ugbede; they all complained that they noticed the pollution for more than three years and reported the matter to the owner of the only filling station around them, the police division, and DPR. However, they didn’t get feedback and no serious commitment on the part of the owner, whom they suspect is not doing enough to alleviate the plight of the people. When contacted on phone, the owner of the Filling station, Gabriel Ogwuche who was away in Abuja, said repair works had been carried out on his underground tanks but there seem not to be any problem with the tanks. According to him,  the pollution of the dug up wells is not from his filling station  but residents of the community believe otherwise. Meanwhile, the head of Health, Safety and Environment, Department of Petroleum Resources in Makurdi, Mr Salihu Mohammad, when contacted said the department is aware of the situation but requested the community to do a formal letter to them to enable them take it up formally and carry out sample of the exact pollution in the wells. The caretaker chairman of Gwer local government, Francis Ayarga, decried the situation, saying urgent step should be taken to address it. He promised to engage all stakeholders and the owner of a filling station in the community to find a lasting solution to the problem. Residents of the community including Martha Myina Akpenpuun Terdzungwe Tsedoo  Kaave, said  what the community needs now is potable water. They appealed to government at all levels to assist them with potable water, as their only source of water has been rendered unfit and unsafe for usage. LEADERSHIP Sunday, however observed that the residents appeal to government and spirited individuals to provide them with potable water had fell on deaf ears. The state commissioner for Water Resources and Environment, Engr Dondu Ahire denied having any knowledge of the said situation. “ I am getting to hear this for the first time, no body has approached the ministry that a community is in dire need of water and I refused to go there. Such a complaint is yet to reach my table, “ he said. A resident whose house was also affected, Zaneme Iorliam, lamented that the community has been suffering for the past three years as a result of  the oil spillage. “We started experiencing this spillage since 2016, and we drew the attention of one of the fuel station owners, located close to the community, whom we suspected the leakage is from, at one of the station’s underground tanks. But our appeal to him to carryout a check fell on deaf ears. “We even drew the attention of the state house of assembly member, whose family house was also affected and he invited the owner of the fuel station for a meeting  where it was resolved that a leakage test should be carried out in order to ascertain the actual fault”. According to him, the man after some days claimed that he contracted one company to carryout the test and no leakage was found on any of the underground tanks. When contacted on phone, the owner of the fuel station, Gabriel Ogwuche said he had contracted one company to carry out a test on all the underground tanks but found no fault. The Deputy Controller of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) Makurdi, Engineer Gabriel Adagba during a visit to the  Kpe- Jande community advised residents to remain calm and desist from using the hand dug- wells already contaminated with oil spillage to avoid any unfortunate health circumstances. The deputy controller who visited the affected community in company of some  DPR officials and Engineers from Prompt Engineering to carryout a manual and scientific investigation on the spillage, appealed to the local government authority to provide the community with alternative source of water. While assuring the community  of a lasting solution to end the continuous contamination of the over 40 hand dug wells affected by substance suspected to be premium motor spirit (PMS) in the community, the controller also directed the shutting down of all the affected wells. During the visit, the Deputy Controller also told members of the community that extensive survey will be carried out with the range of about two kilometers radius or more, since the initial test conducted by the owner of Gabrow filling station did not indicate any leakage, even when it was temporarily shut for 48 hours as a matter of procedure to determine if there was leak from the storage tanks spilling into the wells. Engineer Adagba, who also said sample of the substance has already being taken for further investigation, called on the residents of the community to remain calm and desist from using the wells to avoid health hazards. Meanwhile, Ugbede and Gari, who spoke on behalf of the community, during the visit of DPR expressed appreciation to their visitors for their quick response and intervention. The Manager of Gabrow Filling Station, Polycarp Ameh, whose station is at the epicenter of the allegation, heaved a sigh of relief that the spill was not from their end, after it was temporarily shut for 48 hours to enable DPR and Prompt Engineering carry out investigation on their storage tanks. The caretaker chairman of the  local government, Ayarga, also thanked the community for their maturity in handling the matter as well as the DPR officials for the painstaking effort and quick intervention. However, as at the time of filing this report, the community is yet to have an alternative source of potable water as residents trek kilometers in search of water. This has brought untold hardship on the residents, especially women and children, who are the most vulnerable. 