The Edo State Government has set a 7-month completion target for the contractors handling the first phase of the reconstruction of the College of the Agriculture and Natural Resources, with campuses in Iguoriakhi, Agenebode and Uromi. The administrative headquarters of the College, situated at Iguoriakhi houses the School of Agricultural Technology and Engineering, with two other campuses in Agenebode and Uromi. At the Pre-Construction Planning held at the College premises, in Iguoriakhi, the contractors, Sageto Ltd and Global Link, said they hope to complete the project in seven months. The Commissioner of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Hon. Richard Uyi Edebiri, said, “We want to continue the rebirth of College of Agriculture, Iguoriakhi. When you have a responsive and responsible government, this is what you get. Because Governor Godwin Obaseki was not pleased with the college being in a dilapidated condition, he paved way for the college to be transformed to a befitting tertiary institution.” “The essence of the reconstruction is to help in training the desired manpower to harness the potentials in the agricultural sector. The contractors would commence site-work immediately and we are positive that within the shortest possible time the project is going to be completed,” he added. Edebiri noted, “Though the contractors gave us a time frame of seven months, we have made it clear to the contractors to make sure they agree to the terms and conditions for the project. That is why it is very important they move to site immediately because we don’t have time. They need to be up and running so that the students can come back here.” The Lead Consultant for the reconstruction project, Mr. Giles Omezi, said, “We are here for the pre-construction planning. The contractors are moving to site immediately. Work starts in earnest. We are expected to build one administrative block and a dormitory, which will take about 1000 students.” “There would be one academic building of about six classrooms, three laboratories, an Information Communication Technology (ICT) lab, a small library. Six lecture theatres will be replicated across the campus site,” he added.