Background My name is Farida Ibrahim Jibril and I hail from Ajobe in Ankpa LGA of Kogi State, Igala Ethnic Group. I am the first of the five children of my parents – Alhaji Ibrahim Jibril and Hajia Rakiya Ibrahim Jibril. My mother hails from Idah local government area of Kogi State. I was born on 23rd December 1996, in Island Maternity Hospital, Lagos Island, Lagos State. I attended Moonlight Nursery School in Ajegunle, that was where my parents lived then before we moved to Festac Town in Lagos, I attended Dr. Soyemi Primary School for about 4-5years and then proceeded to Loral Int’l Primary School, where I also did my secondary school. I proceeded to the University of Ilorin. Although I later changed to Ajayi Crowther University IN Oyo where I bagged a degree. I have always been particular about skin care. So many experiences drew me into skincare business, including my wedding preparation.  How did you come about your brand name? I really wanted a name that would be easy and catchy, and I also wanted the word ‘skin’ to be part of my brand name. I coined and wrote down so many names, but ‘Skinuvia’ came out the best out of them all.  The business I always loved to look my best while growing up, I always knew that I would go into the beauty line, but I didn’t know what exactly. When I attained my puberty age, I had acne and it was so frustrating, I become more frustrated when pimples started appearing even on my chest and back, which made me more cautious of the cloths I wore. Although I have always loved the idea of business because of my mom who was into so many businesses, I found more fulfilment in skincare. So, two years before I started Skinuvia, I did several researches and made enquiries. When my wedding was around the corner, my skin was in its worst state, and most skincare products and spa appointments where so expensive. I decided to kill two birds with one stone by learning, while also treating my skin issues. That became of the very best decisions of my life. My Parents and my then fiancée (now husband) supported me financially. Officially, I started my business in June 2019. Thanks to Amaka – my teacher, a skincare expert.  Mentors My mum has really been my biggest supporter, cheerleader and mentor. Even till now we keep discussing business moves all the time. I am mostly inspired by all hard-working women around me. My mom, Kylie Jenner, Oprah etc. I really admire women who get the bag.  Challenges My biggest challenge has always been more income, the skincare business is very lucrative, but it is capital intensive. Spa was also part of what I learnt, but I have not been opportune to used it because it needs bigger space, like a duplex or something. You know how expensive renting such an apartment could be in Abuja, apart from procuring the machines. But I know with more hard work and patience, I will get there. I fear failure a lot, so I try always try to achieve the best possible result in my business. I am determined to be successful, so I cannot give failure a chance.  Achievement I really thank God so much for where I am presently. I started my business with about N240,000.00 but I can tell you that within the space of 7-8months It has grown into over a million naira. I am happy with my achievement so far. Other businesses that I had done in the past did not fetch me such a rapid increment, but Skinuvia is doing it for me.  Future projection Having a spa is part of my plan. And I will have it in a shortest possible time.  How are you managing family and business? Being organised, very importantly, is the key to managing family and business. It was overwhelming for me at the initial stage, but I found out that making time for everything is very essential.  Word of wisdom Get up and get moving. Nothing in this life is easy, But the worse thing is not having business or skill to call your own. I appreciate the value of money better now that I am earning it myself. A woman who understands her role in the family, would need to have something that will fetch more money for the family, and would not leave all the burden for the husband to bear.