Infidelity, pressure from men haters, deceit, lack of communication and extramarital affairs amongst others are responsible for the breakdown of most marriages that end in divorce, TUNDE OGUNTOLA and ADEGWU JOHN write on the growing scourge Williams Shakespeare’s drama book, “Romeo and Juliet”, though fictitious, created a perfect prototype of ideal love that nothing can break. Sadly, the current upsurge of divorce cases across Nigerian families has raised questions about the very purpose of marriage as an institution approved by God for happiness, complement and reproduction. Beyond deceits by a spouse soon after the wedding, which the other partner sees as unacceptable and deal breaking; there is also an upsurge of a group of dangerous male-hating women on social media who pretend to be feminists. These set of women hide their hatred for men in the cloak of championing female rights and always advice women to divorce their husbands at the slightest provocation. These sets of women consistently spit fire on their posts on social media and regularly describe men as the ‘scum’ of the earth that should be dispensed with. These women most often than not create different groups on social media, where they teach naive and vulnerable women the best ways to deal with men and show them what they are made of. A recent alarm raised by an Abuja-based lawyer identified as Annebrafa on Twitter held that there are over 4,000 divorce applications in Abuja alone between January-February 2020. Her staggering statistics have left Nigerians wondering. Annebrafa lamented that it is really much considering that the year is barely two months old. The lawyer also said that some of the marriages seeking legal separation are not up to a year in marriage. She said that those applications were filed in the country’s capital alone. She added that some of the marriages involved were just a year old. She ended by asking: “What is really happening?” Although controversy and different comments have trailed her post, a lawyer, First Baba Isa, debunked the claim that over 4,000 divorce applications were submitted in Abuja, Annebrafa post stressed the need for marriages to be seen as an institution that needs strengthening. Baba Isa, who picked holes in the post, argued that Annebrafa’s claim is impossible considering the law that says application for divorce cannot be filed in Nigerian courts if the marriage is less than two years. Baba Isa, who said he is a core litigation lawyer that deals in family law, noted that the number of cases filed in Abuja this year is not even up to 2,000.  He added that he does not know how she came up with her own figure. He further said that if Annebrafa’s post was an attempt to get people to talk bad about marriage, she achieved it. Going by Baba Isa’s claims that the number of cases filed in Abuja this year is not even up to 2,000, the rate of divorce in the country is still alarming, imagine if other states are factored in. Also, the figure could even be higher owing to the fact that traditional marriages are not strictly regulated, so there are hardly divorce records for them. Although each of the marriages failed for a reason, however, there are so many reasons advanced by relationship experts to have caused the alarming rate of divorce in Nigeria.  ‘My husband has become a monster’ Ene and Jude (not real names) got married in 2013 after five years of being friends. The marriage so far produced two children. But their love story turns sour just immediately after Ene, who was a full-time housewife,  got a job with a non-governmental organisation in Abuja. Ene has always complained that her heartthrob turned husband has gradually turned a monster and no longer provides for the family’s basic need since she gave birth to her second baby. Not feeling good with her new job as she closes late and resumes very early to work, Ene, although still in her husband’s house, told our correspondent that she will be filing for divorce soon as she is no longer interested in the marriage. ‘’I can no longer continue with the marriage; my husband’s attitude is overbearing and tyrannical. He suspects me and now feels I am cheating on him since I got a job. I was forced to seek for a job after my husband shows negligence for our upkeep. All I want is a divorce as I can no longer continue with my marriage. ‘’I need peace. You would not want to die now in the name of being married. I can’t afford to die now as my husband now shows more symptoms of aggression,’’ she said not feeling optimistic about the marriage. This is the sad story of Ene. As suppose, the very first thing before couples says “yes I do” to marriage, is love, then come experiences and realities of married life which is sometimes good, sometimes bad and sometimes falling apart becomes the last resort. Unlike Ene, a 31-year-old Lagos trader, Abigael Adeniran, has begged Agege Customary Court to dissolve her 10-year-old marriage with her husband, Adedeji Adeniran, a driver, over constant beating and lack of love. Abigael, who resides at No. 6, Mosalasi, Agege Road area of Lagos, said her husband has turned her into a punching bag as he beats her on a daily basis, as well as bringing fetish objects into their homes. In a petition submitted to the court, the mother of two children, ages six years and nine years said: “My husband drinks to stupor and smokes Indian hemp, after which he usually loses self-control. I do not love him anymore, I have been the one responsible for the upkeep of our children in the past three years since I parked out of his house, so I want the custody of my children but I want him to be responsible for their monthly upkeep.” Both the petitioner and the respondent were not in court when the case was mentioned but the legal representative of the petitioner urged the court to go on with the trial since there was evidence that the respondent was communicated about the mention. “My client is also not in court because she’s currently out of Lagos. She was meant to come in last night but I waved the risk since the case was scheduled for mentioning,” the petitioner’s lawyer, Mr. Dede Ogah said. Ogah further said the respondent is not interested in coming to court and urged the court to go on with the trial. “If we go on with trial, prove our case and get a judgement, there is a way of enforcing that judgment,” he said. Meanwhile, Toke Makinwa and Maje Ayida while enumerating “reasons why divorce rate seems to be high in Nigeria,” noted that sexual issues, superiority complex, rushing into marriage, infidelity, financial issues, infertility, westernisation, and poor communication are major causes of divorce in Nigeria. Other relationship/marriage experts are of the view that communication problems, sexual difficulties, conflicts about child rearing or blended families, substance abuse, anger and infidelity, are the major cause of divorce. Basically, most of the divorce cases could be linked to certain types of lifestyles in both men and women such as increasing moral decay, obsession with social media, spousal irresponsibility and some radical movements such as career woman ideology, feminism, among others. Marriage counsellor, Dr Eunice Iheanacho, blames the high rate of divorce in Nigeria on the immaturity of couples. “Couples these days are always impatient, full of pride, lack wisdom and understanding, and unable to make corrections or correct others’ mistakes. There is a case of a couple that sought the dissolution of their marriage simply because one of them jokingly used derogatory language on the other,” said Dr Eunice Iheanacho. In a chilling fact released by David and Amanda Taylor of Mastering Marriage, 50 per cent of first marriages end in divorce, 60 per cent of second marriages end in divorce and 75 per cent of third marriages end in divorce. This portrays that divorce is not actually the way forward for couples who are struggling to establish peace in their marriages. Also, Dr Slyvester Omosun in his article titled: ‘Marriages Fading with the Sunset Among Nigerians’, averred that very rarely do divorces leave either couple happy at the long end, especially when children are involved. Adding that one wonders if divorce rarely brings happiness after, what then can tame the high rate of divorce in Nigeria. “Couples should tolerate, easily forgive one another, communicate often and settle their differences amicably, to sustain the love that binds them together,” said Rev. Fr. Felix Nwosu, who recently decried the high rate of divorce in Nigeria. Many other marriage counsellors identified genuine love and knowledge between couples as antidotes to cracks in marriages. “A strong fruitful marriage where joy, peace and love are all intimate components, is less about love and more about knowledge. Marriages are destroyed because of lack of knowledge. No one teaches marriage, no one teaches you how to love properly. We believe that it is the knowledge of how to be married that holds the foundation of the family together. We believe that if we can heal marriages, we can literally change the world,” said David and Amanda Taylor. “Divorce sometimes is not avoidable and, in such situations, it may be justified. However, when society says, “jump”, we must seek the “why” before we jump.  Most cracks in marriages are repairable regardless of how frustrating the experiences may be.  Knowing and respecting each other’s temperament goes a long way to preserving relationships” “A pre-evaluation and good understanding prior to marriage is perhaps old fashion, but still a requirement for maintaining long marriages.  The marriage institution is a level playing field regardless of how we look at it, and in the long run, the ultimate satisfaction is to say, “my marriage was dead and now it is alive,” said Dr Sylvester Omosun. “I am of the view that the institution of marriage needs some form of intervention by religious and cultural bodies. For example, many Church denominations, particularly the Catholic Church in Nigeria, are fully involved in pre-marital counselling for intending couples. The approach is also to make sure parents or guardians are included in the process,” said Umar Yakubu who writes on ‘‘Deciphering the High Rate of Divorce in Nigeria.’’ In all, experts are of the opinion that increase in the commitment of both the wife and the husband to develop trust and mutual understanding can help build a sound marriage life. Community elders and religious leaders can also play a role in consulting couples, short- and long-term training on marriage need to be designed for couples. In addition to this, intervention and prevention programmes need to be established, where married peoples access professional family counselling services in their surroundings along with pre-marriage counselling and training for couples on child care responsibilities, communication and family conflict management skills are highly recommended to fix a broken marriage. Perhaps, this is what some people see when they say that a good marriage is an achievement. While it is a better choice to go separate ways when things do not longer work, a broken marriage is a dent, a mark that something serious must have gone wrong or that both partners were just never ready. When it comes to making a marriage work, the emphasis on staying faithful to one’s partner is often stressed. For most people, having intimate relationships with anyone other than one’s partner is often what they regard as adultery. However, Reno Omokri believes it is often deeper than that. According to him, anyone who values the opinion of their pastors, friends and in-laws above that of the spouse, is also considered to be committing adultery. He wrote: “Adultery is not only when you have extramarital intercourse. As a married person, when you honour, respect and obey your pastor, in-law or friend above your spouse, you adulterate your marriage and undermine spousal unity.”