There was massive jubilation in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) unveiled its first Cooperative Housing Estate in Kuje area council. CHIKA OKEKE reports The project, Woodhill Estate, which is sitting on 8.3-hectares of land is located behind Madonna Prestigious School, Godoji road, off Pegi road in Kuje area council. It was funded by FMBN and developed for cooperative members of Akacare multi-purpose cooperative society by Perfect Estate Developers Limited. It was conceived to alleviate the plight of Nigerian workers especially the low- and medium-income earners that constitute over 80 percent of the population and reduce the over 22 million housing deficit taunting the country. The project commenced with the first phase in October 2018 and the second phase was approved in July 2019, just as the project was targeted at facilitating the homeownership dream of the members who are contributors to the National Housing Fund (NHF) scheme. NHF is a mandatory contributing scheme that provides opportunity for Nigerian workers, both in the public and private sector earning a minimum of N3, 000 per annum to contribute 2.5 percent of their monthly income. Based on regular contributions to the Fund, a contributor would be eligible to enjoy a number of loans and services at concessionary interest rates, and would be repaid over a long tenor so as to guarantee affordability for Nigerians. The first phase of the Kuje project, comprising of 40 units of two-bedroom semi-detached bungalow and 37 units of three-bedroom detached N499 million is sold for N7.5 million and N9.5 million respectively while the second phase which is 90 percent completed would consist of 80 units, with a total number of 154 units and would aggregately cost N997 million. Speaking at the unveiling of the estate, the managing director/chief executive of FMBN, Arc Ahmed Dangiwa hinted that cooperative societies helps to aggregate the resources of individuals into more effective efforts and improve credit risk management by cross-guarantee among members and the peer pressure that would enable borrowers to meet up with loan repayment obligation. According to him, “This medium of cooperative is critical if we as a nation must achieve the goals of financial inclusion to the informal sector and help to achieve President Muhammadu Buhari’s target of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty within this decade”. He disclosed that the inauguration is an attestation that the National Housing Fund (NHF) is meeting its mandate of delivering houses that are well-built, decent and affordable to Nigerians especially the medium and low-income workers. The MD informed that the first phase of the estate which was inaugurated on Monday added 77 housing units comprising of 40 units of two-bedroom semi-detached bungalows and 37 units of three-bedroom detached bungalows to the national housing stock. Dangiwa pointed out that the second phase has already commenced and is expected to deliver an additional 77 units to make a total of 154 houses, adding that to improve accessibility to the estate that the bank is providing additional loan to complete the 2.1-kilometer access road from the major junction. The MD stated that with about 17 jobs per unit, the project has created 1, 309 direct jobs to the local environment, with a promise to keep impacting the Nigerian economy through the bank’s business. Lending his voice, the MD of Perfect Estate Developers Limited, Arc Dayo Babatunde hinted that the event represented the commitment of the present administration in the provision of qualitative and affordable housing for the workforce, both in the formal and informal sectors of the economy. He revealed that the National Housing Programme (NHP) of federal government would remain a mirage without the cooperation and contributions of credible real estate developers and other key stakeholder’s in the construction industry as well as the workers. In his contribution, the chairman, board of directors at FMBN, Dr Adewale Adeeyo stated that despite the difficult socio-economic and legal environment that the bank has waxed stronger and provided more investments for housing delivery since the arrival of the new leadership. He noted that the bank is grossly undercapitalised with a paltry capital of N5 billion in a market that required trillions of naira investment, just as he called on the federal government to recapitalise the bank to the tune of N500 billion. Adeeyo maintained that the event symbolised a new turn in the performance of the bank’s mandate of providing affordable housing finance to Nigerians. The minister of Works & Housing, Babatunde Fashola who inaugurated the project, commended the bank, developer, cooperatives and subscribers, adding that without their strong partnership that the project would not be attained. He said that though Nigeria has housing deficit, that the problem is more pronounced in urban areas than the rural areas, adding that, “If we don’t have a common understanding of our problems, we will find it difficult to find a common solution”. Fashola lamented that despite the housing deficit, that there are several empty houses in Lagos, Abuja and PortHarcourt, adding that the empty houses are an attestation that the properties are either too big or small or a combination of both or too expensive to meet the demands of off-takers. He harped on the need for stakeholders in the built sector to scale-up housing construction across Nigeria as part of measures to bridge the deficit. The minister was hopeful that if the entire 36 States of the federation including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) commenced housing programme through cooperatives that it would facilitate President Muhammadu Buhari’s vision of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. The deputy chairman, House Committee on Housing & Habitat, Hon Eta Mbora encouraged other cooperatives to key into the project and take advantage of FMBN’s products to own their homes, pledging to collaborate with the bank on increased home ownership for workers. Giving the alarming slum settlements and inadequate social services, he urged the bank to improve the urban centres through the scheme, just as he drummed support for the programmes and projects of the bank. One of the subscribers, Mrs Rhoda Aboye who is a staff of Gwagwalada teaching hospital commended the federal government and the bank for putting smiles on the faces of workers. She pleaded with the bank to extend the project to the 36 States of the federation in order to facilitate the home ownership of Nigerians contributing to the National Housing Fund (NHF). 