In light of recent outbreak of the deadly Coronavirus, the Chinese government continues to work tirelessly towards containing and eliminating the disease. BUKOLA OGUNSINA writes.  The outbreak of the coronavirus has caused a stir worldwide as many have continued to fall victim to the scourge. According to a news letter on fighting coronavirus, China’s Health Commission states that the Chinese mainland has recorded a total of 11,791 confirmed cases as of midnight 31st January to include 259 deaths and 243 who have recovered from the virus and been discharged from the hospital. China’s foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying   said regarding the outbreak that the Chinese government has taken the most comprehensive and rigorous prevention and control  measures with a strong responsibility for peoples health. At a press conference declaring coronavirus a health emergency held by the World Health Organisation, the director general of WGL, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus remarked, “The speed with which China detected the outbreak, isolated the virus, sequenced the genome, and shared it with WHO and the world are very impressive, and beyond words. “So is China’s commitment to transparency and to supporting other countries. In many ways, China is actually setting a new standard for outbreak response, and it’s not an exaggeration”, he said. LEADERSHIP Sunday, in an exclusive interview with a journalist from China Media Group (CMG) Xu Qinduo,garnered that containing the outbreak of the virus is challenging as it broke at a time when there was an increase in travel. “First of all, the novel corona virus outbreak took place at a time when the Chinese are supposed to go back for family reunion for the Spring Festival, the most important festival for the Chinese. “At a typical Spring Festival, about 3 billion of travels are made in a short period of a month’s time. Such a large scale of human migration makes work to contain the virus particularly challenging for China. “Another related development is before Wuhan was shut down, five million local residents had left, potentially spreading the virus to other parts of the country. “So the Chinese government decided to take tough measures to tackle the outbreak. “Before we fully understand the virus, experts believe the best way to contain the virus is to quarantine those being infected by isolating them from the rest of the population. “Wuhan, the epicenter of the outbreak, was cut off. Residents are advised to stay in the city. Then, public transport system inside the city was also stopped. People basically are asked to stay at home and not to come out unless you need to see the doctor. “Behind the move, the city government built a platform on Chinese social media. If a resident feels uncomfortable, they’ll be able to contact the outside directly, a designated minibus or taxi will arrive to pick him or her up. “Following the example of Wuhan, about nine other cities in Hubei Province, of which Wuhan is the capital, were also locked down. He further added that, other provinces and cities like Beijing and Shanghai began tracking down those who arrived in their cities from Wuhan and those who have had close contact with them. As a result there have been gradual growth of the number of confirmed cases in other provinces and cities. “So far almost all of the cases are “imported” from Wuhan, meaning those infected are either from Wuhan or in close contact with them. Local residents are strongly advised to be away from crowds (shopping malls, supermarkets, hospitals, etc), wear masks if they’re out, wash hands frequently, and most important, to stay inside.” Qinduo also noted that there is no lack of medical staff as the Chinese Central Government under the direct leadership of President Xi Jinping, is coordinating assistance to Wuhan to combat the virus. “You have medical teams from every provinces and municipalities (Beijing, Shanghai, Chongqing, Tianjin, which enjoy a provincial status and manages themselves independently) being sent to Wuhan to help their counterparts in local hospitals. “So there’s no lack of medical staff. More and more patients are being received and taken care of properly and in a prompt manner. That partly explains the sharp increase of the numbers of cases on Tuesday (28th). In order to be able to contain patients and mitigate the shortage of hospital beds, two new hospitals each having 1000 beds are on the process of being built and set to be completed in a short period of 10 days. According to Qinduo, he expects they would be put to use next week. “As the number of cases continue to grow, the governments suggested two extra days of holiday to stay home longer instead of being on roads. Some provinces are asking people to stay at home for one more week. By doing this, hopefully, those infected will be either hospitalised or recover by themselves in about two weeks’ time – the incubation period of the virus. “China has learned the lesson of SARS, so it acted in a decisive way with many tough but temporary measures, which are well received by the population. “But the lack of understanding of the virus and the coincidence with the Spring Festival indeed created some difficulties to contain the outbreak. The contagion will not come down before it peaks in about 10 days, as one top expert, pointed out,” he concluded. A foreign national who resides in China Kevin Paul Gouldmann told LEADERSHIP Sunday, “I have had no problem coping since the outbreak. We have had to change some plans, such as meeting friends and family at restaurants, etc. We cancelled all reservations, and only met in their homes. “We also decided to come back to Beijing from Shanghai a day early, just to be sure we wouldn’t be stranded—in the end, it wasn’t necessary, but we were being cautious. “Aside from this, we are basically staying at home in our apartment compound for the next 14 days, working from home, (as many are doing). We have reduced our trips out of the compound to just the necessities, such as food shopping. “We also always wear a mask when going outside the apartment, as well as use hand sanitizer/wash our hands frequently—basic heightened personal hygiene,” he said. He further added that as far as travel restrictions are concerned, he is resident in China, so they do not apply to him at the moment. “ I do know from the news that several countries have closed the direct land borders to mainland China, and several airlines have reduced or stopped flights in and out of mainland China. “There has been an evacuation of US citizens directly from Wuhan, capital of Hubei Province, but no general evacuation from China,” he commented. Information gathered from the newsletter reveals that according to the commission, the number of confirmed cases of infection in China’s Hong Kong is 13, while Macao is 7 and special administrative regions and Taiwan Province is at 10, had risen to 30 in total. It also notes that currently, 136,987 close contact of confirmed cases had been tracked and among them 118,478 are under medical observation while 6,509 such were freed from observation on Friday.