The group managing director of Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe, has pledged the bank’s support for the continued growth of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon which is set to be included in the international marathon calendar with the top 10 prize win. The Access Bank Lagos City 42 kilometer Marathon has a prize win of $50,000 each for the first man and woman to cross the finish line, making it earn a spot in the top 10 most lucrative marathons in the world, in the class of London Marathon, Berlin Marathon, Hong Kong Marathon, NYC Marathon, Boston Marathon and Dubai Marathon. Wigwe, speaking at the end of the marathon, said the bank is delighted to continue as the headline sponsor of the Lagos City Marathon for the fifth consecutive year. “Since its inception, we have ensured that the marathon gets bigger and better, and a testament to our effort is the confirmation of our recently-attained Silver Label by the International Association of Athletics Federation, the governing body for road races,” Wigwe said, adding, “This year, we are hopeful to get the gold label, and we will definitely persist to ensure that our targets are met.” Kenyans dominated the stage with David Barmasai Tumo, emerging winner of the male category, breaking last year’s record with a 2:10:23 time, while Sharon Jemutai Cherop won the women category with a time of 2:30:40 time. Tumo’s 2:10:23 time was four mins 41 seconds faster than Abraham Kiprotich’s record in 2018. Last year, Sintayehu Legese of Ethiopia won the marathon. He finished with a time of 2:17:28. The male and female first-place finishers of the 42km race received the sum of $50,000 amounting to N18.17 million in prize money, while the second and third-place winners went home with $40,000 and $30,000, amounting to N14.5 million and N10.9 million respectively. In line with the tradition of the marathon to encourage indigenous participation, the first 20 Nigerian winners received cash prizes. The first-place finisher in the race received N3 million while the second and third positions received N2 million and N1 million respectively. For the 10km fun race, the first-place winner received a grand prize of a brand new car, while runners in the second and third positions were rewarded with N1 million and N750,000 respectively. Also, the first, second and third place winner in the special athletes category won N1 million, N750,000 and N500,000 respectively. The race, kicked off at 6am in front of the National Stadium, Surulere, and ended at the Eko Atlantic City, Victoria Island, a 42-kilometre stretch. The Third Mainland Bridge, Osborne road, Parkview and Lekki/Ikoyi link bridge were among roads that were closed for the annual activity. Wigwe, pledged to continue supporting future editions of the race as he commended the efforts of Governor Babajide Sanwoolu, the Lagos State Government and other sponsors for their contributions towards the success of the marathon over the years. “We urge you all to continue to stand by our side as we make history today and build a sustainable future for tomorrow,” Wigwe said.