Nigerians clamouring for the sack of the service chiefs over alleged poor performance may need to rethink their action because the federal government is not well-disposed to it. The secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who reacted to the calls yesterday, declared that it was premature to take such step because it would complicate the present security situation in the country. Mustapha told journalists after the presentation of a book authored by a former general secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Samuel Salifu, that “it is premature to sack the service chiefs because of Nigeria’s growing insecurity.” The situation, according to him, requires everyone to be on board, adding that what should be the main focus of Nigerians is how to work together to combat the security challenges, and not the sack of the service chiefs. Mustapha said: “We are in a very difficult time now. We need everybody to be on board. We need synergy within the intelligence community, within the military formations that will help fight this war. “When we begin to create cracks and divisions, who will be the beneficiaries? The adversaries are the ones that are going to exploit those deficiencies and further the cause of destabilising the nation. “At this moment, what we need is for everybody to be on the same page, fight the battle of securing the nation for protecting life and property and ensuring that every Nigerian has the opportunity to enjoy a prosperous life. I think that should be our main focus. “You don’t sack people like that. There are processes and I believe that at the opportune time, those processes will be followed. You don’t just wake up and say sack people, it doesn’t happen like that,” the SGF insisted. The calls for the sack of the service chief have grown louder in recent times due to increased killings by Boko Haram insurgents and bandits. Even the House of Representatives added its voice to the calls for the removal of the service chiefs. Purported Kyari, Monguno feud, plot to destabilise PMB’s cabinet – PSC Meanwhile, the Presidential Support Committee (PSC) has described media reports of cracks between the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) headed by Maj-Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) and the Chief of Staff (CoS) to the President, Mallam Abba Kyari, as a plot to undermine President Muhammadu Buhari’s kitchen cabinet. The report, which was first published by an online newspaper on Monday, claimed that the NSA, in a memo dated December 9, 2019, ordered the service chiefs to desist from taking further directives from Kyari, who, allegedly issues such directives without the knowledge and approval of the president. The practice, Monguno purportedly said had added to the government’s failure to contain insecurity in the country. But, in a statement released by its director of communication and strategic planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the PSC described the report as “preposterous, spurious, callous and entirely a tissue of lies aimed at forcing concocted lies down the throat of Nigerians.” Ibrahim said: “The online medium stood journalism ethics on its head in the manner it presented the report. It is nothing more than hallucination. The story is certainly a case of the voice of Jacob but the hand of Esau. This is a sponsored story premeditated at rubbishing the working relationship among the president‘s kitchen cabinet. “The story should be told to the marines, instead of any rational being. Why and how on earth would the president’s chief of staff be accused of frustrating the fight against insurgency that is killing his own people in Borno State? “The purported crack in the president‘s team is undoubtedly the figment of mischief makers’ imagination. They earn a living through blackmail, propaganda and deceit. President Buhari and his team have refused to be distracted by the onslaught of unpatriotic and thoroughly corrupt elements, who survives on crises. “President‘s Buhari’s team is intact and working tirelessly at achieving the enthronement of peace and prosperity among Nigerians for all to feel the impact of the government, as against the wishes of mindless criminals, who are manipulating and sponsoring the media space against the president and his men,” the group said. On the allegation that most of the directives or memos purportedly emanating from Kyari has no presidential blessing, the PSC wondered why those he described as the sponsors of the online report thought they could convince Nigerians that President Buhari “will fold his hands and allow his appointees to run his government for him. “This is laughable. The latest tactic has also fallen like packs of cards as the ones before it. One distinguishing factor working well in favour of the Buhari administration is clear conscience and purity of motives. That is why it has continued to enjoy massive support from the people. For the umpteenth time, it is important to drum this fact into the ears of these disgruntled elements, that no amount of campaign of calumny will sow the seed of discord among the president’s crack team,” Ibrahim added. Senate Orders Security Beef-up At NASS Similarly, the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, hasordered security beef-up in and around the National Assembly complex. He tasked top security officials to up security measures at the National Assembly to avert a threat already identified by the Department of State Services (DSS). Lawan, who is also the chairman of the National Assembly, disclosed that he had received report of security threat to the National Assembly. In his opening remarks at an emergency meeting between the Senate leadership and top security officials in Abuja, yesterday, said: „Personally, I had a report from the DSS that we had a security threat. Many unknown and uninvited people came or are coming into the National Assembly complex and we felt we shouldn‘t take this lightly. „From today, we have to find temporary solution to support the security arrangement here. We will find a more permanent solution by the time the entire environment is remodelled,“ Lawan said. In attendance were the director-general of the DSS and representatives of the civil defence, police, fire service and other security agencies. Lawan, in a statement issued by his special adviser, Media, Ola Awoniyi, said that the responsibility for ensuring security for all Nigerians was a collective one including the legislative and executive arms of government. „We are working hard; we are working round the clock. We have a very active ad-hoc committee that is already engaging with the security agencies. „As principal officers of the National Assembly, or let me say in the Senate in this respect, our responsibility and obligation is to ensure that our senators, members of the House of Representatives, workers of the National Assembly, our visitors and indeed anyone who has a lawful business to do in this National Assembly are safe. „For a very long time, this National Assembly will always have people who have no business coming here. With the heightening insecurity in the country, the time has come for this National Assembly to be properly secured for members of the National Assembly to carry out their legislative and other functions, under a very safe atmosphere. „What that means is that if someone has no business here, that person shouldn‘t be in the National Assembly. Because we are a parliament, we are a place or an institution where our constituents who feel very strongly about any issue can come and express their opinions. „Some will come for protests. Some will attend public hearings in the committee rooms. Some will visit the gallery or in some cases even enter the chamber when allowed to do so. „So, we want everybody, as far as the security of this National Assembly complex is concerned, to be at his place. Those who work here directly with us, the security agencies know what we are talking about. „From the gate, people who shouldn‘t be here at all, find themselves in. And then people come in, moving from one office to another, looking for nothing because they have no appointment with anyone. Yet they pass through all the security systems that we have in place. „Even our chamber, when we close from it, you see a line-up of people. You wonder how these people came in and what was their business here? And when you take security for granted, sometimes you may have a bitter experience. We don‘t want to take for granted the safe corridor that we have had. At least nothing has happened. „We don‘t want to wait until something happened. This kind of discussions had taken place in the past. This is the ninth Senate; we want to do it differently,” he said. The Senate President said plans are underway for better and permanent security architecture for the National Assembly. „We want to secure the environment with the necessary security gadgets and technologies to ensure that our parliament is like other parliaments in other clime where you have no business in the parliament, you cannot go in and when you have a business on the first floor, you can only go to the first floor. You can‘t go to any other floor,“ Lawan said. The Senate President however clarified that nobody is advocating a blanket ban on the people with genuine reasons from visiting the National Assembly.