Former head of state and convener of Nigeria Prays initiative, General Yakubu Gawon has advocated the need for sustained prayers for improved security across the country. He gave the indication when he led members of the Nigeria Pray’s on a courtesy visit to Bauchi state governor senator Bala Muhammad in the state government house. LEADERSHIP reports that General Gawon was in the state ahead of their zonal national annual prayer to be hosted in the state. General Yakubu Gawon said the initiative was part of their efforts towards promoting peace and security especially in Northeastern region. The former head of state who commended governor Bala Muhammad for ensuring the state remained the most peaceful in the region encouraged him to maintain the spirit. While emphasizing that security of lives and properties is a collective responsibility, Gawon called on traditional and religious leaders across the country to remain resolute in guiding their subjects on the need for tolerance. The former head of state was also at the palace of Emir of Bauchi Dr Rilwanu Sulaimanu Adamu to intimate him on the visit. Yakubu Gowon said the prayer rally would afford them the opportunity to pray for the country to overcome its numerous challenges and to seek God’s guidance for leaders. “Your Excellency this prayer was initiated to offer prayers for the peace and well-being of the country, we will also use the opportunity to pray for all the Governors of the Northeast zone. In his address, the state governor senator Bala who commended the former head of state for continuous service to the nation expressed determination to supporting activities aimed at reintegrating the country. “On behalf of the Government and People of Bauchi state, I am happy to welcome you Sir to our state, we are excited that our leader is visiting us today. “Your Excellency, we know the sacrifice you made towards stabilizing our country through various initiatives.” “During your administration, there was no any issue of religious differences, as leaders we must emulate you so that we can overcome our challenges. Bala Muhammad explained that the state is hosting people of different religious affiliations adding that his administration will be just and fair While acknowledging the contributions of General Yakubu Gowon to the development of the country, the governor assured the support of the state government for the success of their zonal prayer to be conducted in the state. Governor Bala Mohammed said prayers are critical to assisting leaders to provide qualitative leadership beneficial to the citizens and promised to sustain the developmental projects embarked upon by his administration.  