The commissioner for Information and Communication, Evangelist Kingsley Olorunfemi Fanwo has said the Kogi Open Government and Accountability System (KOGAS) is a platform to consolidate on the effort of Governor Yahaya Bello’s first term administration in bridging the gap between the Government and the Governed. He said this during a live programme – ‘State of Kogi’ on Confluence 94.1FM on Tuesday, adding that KOGAS is designed to make the people contribute directly in the governance of the State. While taking questions on what should be expected in the second term of Governor Bello, the commissioner stated that it is a ‘let’s-do-more’ administration, and there is a clear demonstration of intent to doing more by the governor, which is evident in the announcement of commissioner designates on the day of  inauguration and their swearing/inauguration 48 hours later. He added that the state government will consolidate on the thematic areas it recorded massive development in the just concluded tenure. Fanwo further explained that part of the KOGAS facilities is an internet software application which will be designed to be compatible with all forms of smart phones and accessible by all from anywhere in the State. The people will be able to ask all heads of Ministries, Boards and Agencies questions and answers must be provided within 24 hours. On security, the commissioner lauded the governor on effort made so far to drastically subsidized security from 2016 till date, adding that no sector of the economy will work with the kind of insecurity Gov. Yahaya Bello met onboard and he will do more to entrench the efforts made so far. On Health dare delivery, the commissioner recalled that the former Minister for Health had said what they are trying to do at the Federal level, is already in practice in Kogi State, looking at the innovation of Mobile Clinics, improvement in Paternal and Maternal Health Care delivery and other Health Intervention Programmes. On Agriculture, he said there is massive investment in the sector because the Government knows more of her population are farmers and in the rural arrears, stressing that it is the government of the poor in the society. The commissioner also assured Kogites on the issue of Lassa Fever and other epidemics that the state government and the state ministry of Health is working tirelessly for preventing and containing them, as prevention is not only better than cure, but cheaper. 