Experts have expressed worries over the implementation of Nigeria’s 2020 budget as oil prices yesterday crashed to $54 per barrel (pb), the lowest in more than a year. The decline was caused by the coronavirus outbreak which curtailed Chinese demand and sparked potential supply cuts by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies. The federal government’s oil revenue projection in the 2020 budget, which was signed by President Muhammadu Buhari in December 2019, was based on oil production of 2.18 million barrels a day with an oil price benchmark of $57 per barrel. The government expects to generate N2.64 trillion from oil sales, which is 32.34 per cent of expected total revenue for this year while non-oil revenue projection is N1.80 trillion. But China’s deadly coronavirus has continued to spread fear through world markets, with oil prices falling to their lowest point in three months yesterday. The international oil benchmark for Brent crude tumbled below the $60 per barrel mark earlier on fears that the virus would hit demand in the market that is already saturated. Brent, against which Nigeria’s crude oil is priced, rose above $70 per barrel earlier in January following the killing of an Iranian General, Qassem Soleimani, by the United States (US). By yesterday, Brent crude settled down at $2.17, or 3.8 per cent at $54.45 a barrel, its lowest since January last year. Also, the US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude fell $1.45 a barrel to $50.12 after touching a session low of $49.91, also the lowest since January 2019. Commenting on the development, the director-general, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf, warned that the declining global oil price would have far-reaching implications for the Nigerian economy if the decrease persisted. In an interview with LEADERSHIP, Yusuf said: “It has serious implications for budget implementation, government revenue, stability of the exchange rate, robustness of our foreign reserves and exchange rate induced inflation. “The stability of the macro-economy will be put at great risk. Sharp fall in oil prices if sustained could also undermine investors’ confidence.  Currently, oil price has dropped to $54 per barrel, while the budget benchmark is $57 per barrel,” he said. Yusuf added that this could trigger the pullout of foreign investors from Nigerian assets, which could put pressure on reserves and the capacity of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to sustain its defence of the naira against a possible further weakening of oil prices. The LCCI boss also noted that the improved liquidity and relative stability in forex market witnessed by businesses in the last few years might come under some threats due to declining oil receipts. In addition, the crashing oil prices would have profound impact on the prices of imported goods and services leading to likely increase in the rate of inflation and the ability of government to pay salaries and contractors would be weakened as government revenue might be adversely affected, he said. Similarly, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth forecast may be further revised downwards because there is generally a strong correlation between Nigeria’s GDP performance and crude oil prices. An oil and gas analyst and the chief executive officer (CEO) of Zenera Consulting, Meka Olowola, said that oil prices were on a downhill with Brent crude trading at less than $55 yesterday as the coronavirus ravages China and spreads across the world. Olowola expressed concern that with a large number of productive people staying away from work and businesses activities suspended, the epidemic was effectively slowing down the world’s second largest economy and largest importer of oil, leading to a global demand decline. He stated that the 2020 budget was based on oil price benchmark of $57 and that the current slide was a source of concern for the economy, adding that if oil prices continued to slide or stay below $57, the budget may be difficult to implement. Other analysts feared that global demand could drop by one million barrels a day due to the virus. With the current glut, OPEC+, a recent group formed between OPEC and Russia, is talking about a potential deepening of its already 1.8 million barrel a day production cut. Nigeria’s allocation was increased to 1.774 million barrels per day (bpd) from 1.685 million bpd at the last OPEC meeting in 2019. ”Falling oil prices becomes a serious problem when it goes below the cost of production in an oil- producing country. Sustained oil prices below the cost of production can deter exploration and production and shift production potential for years to come.” Currently, the cost of oil production in Nigeria is above $35 per barrel. If oil prices continue to fall close to this, production of oil in the country will become untenable. However, it seems unlikely that this will happen soon as the tension in the Middle East is likely to balance prices out. ”Oil prices are externally determined by the forces of demand and supply and all these are factored in crude production and marketing,” Olowola said. The Nigerian economy, he fears, runs mainly on a single commodity and that’s dire because a collapse of the world oil market will adversely affect the foreign exchange earnings and subsequently the growth and development of economy. Olowola also said that it could plunge the country into debt as government has continuously borrowed (especially in 2016) to finance the budget, the aftermath being retrogression as was the case in 2014 when the country went into recession. Phil Flynn, an analyst at Price Futures Group in Chicago, said that ”we have not seen a demand destruction event of this scale that moves this quickly.” Also, refiner, Sinopec Corp, has ordered cut throughput this month by about 600,000 barrels per day (bpd), or 12 per cent, the steepest cut in more than a decade. Independent refineries in Shandong province, which collectively import about a fifth of China’s crude, cut output by 30 per cent to 50 per cent in a little more than a week, executives and analysts said. The outbreak could particularly curtail jet fuel demand growth in China, wrote an analyst, Paul Sankey, who is also the managing director at Mizuho in New York. Wuhan airport is China’s busiest inland hub carrying about 25 million passengers per year, and conservative estimates are that the number of travellers have fallen by about a third, Sankey said. The OPEC+ is considering a further 500,000 bpd cut in their oil output, three OPEC sources and an industry player told Reuters. The Wall Street Journal reported that another option being considered would involve a temporary cut of one million bpd by Saudi Arabia to jolt oil markets. “The market needs assurances that the supply/demand equation remains in balance for prices to hit a floor. This suggests a commitment from OPEC not just to extend oil supply cuts, but even implement deeper ones beyond March,” FXTM analyst, Hussein Sayed, said Iranian oil minister, Bijan Zanganeh, said that the oil market is under pressure with prices dropping below $60 a barrel, and “efforts must be made to balance it.” Ratings agency, Fitch said that the coronavirus outbreak could push the global oil market into surplus and that OPEC+ may need to cut production further if the outbreak lasts for several months. On the first day of trade in China since the Lunar New Year holiday, investors erased $393 billion from the nation’s benchmark equities index, sold the yuan currency and dumped commodities as coronavirus fears dominated markets. The first-month Brent contract traded at eight cents less than the second-month contract, a reversal from the front-month premiums seen as recently as last week. The discount briefly widened to 12 cents, the largest since July. Nigeria’s crude oil production fell to a record low of 1.57 million barrels per day in December from 1.66 million bpd in November 2019, according to the OPEC. ”Nigeria is more affected by reduced oil production. The country’s current production level is 18.81 per cent lower than its 2020 oil production benchmark of 2.18mbpd. Also, lower output would erase the gains made from high oil prices. Thus, lower oil production would adversely affect the country’s fiscal and external position,” analysts at the Financial Derivatives Company Limited said in a report. According to S&P Global Platts, Nigeria’s quota drops to 1.75 million bpd under the OPEC+ coalition’s agreement to deepen its production cut through March. OPEC members are reportedly considering deeper production cuts, or extending their existing deal, in response to a slump in prices caused by the outbreak of coronavirus in China. “The next two weeks will be critical for not only the oil market but the global economy. If the coronavirus is as bad as the Sudden Acute Respiratory Syndrome outbreak in 2003, oil demand could fall by 700,000bpd to 800,000bpd, reflecting more than a half of the expected demand growth for 2020, according to Platts Analytics.