Muhammed Asiyah, 22, is of the family of Alhaji Ishaq Abuh (Masira). She hails from Dekina local government area of Kogi State. Asiyah is the first of the five children of her parents. She attended Grace Christian School, Anyigba, for her primary education, and proceeded to Isah Memorial College, Ajiyolo Dekina local government for her secondary school. She obtained her first degree from the Kogi State University. Asiyah saw a light in becoming a makeup artist right from her childhood, and she has achieved her dream. Background My name is Muhammed Asiyah. I am the first child and daughter of Alhaji Ishaq Abuh (Masira). My dad is a business tycoon; and Hajia Maimunetu Muhammed is my mother. She is also a successful business woman. I hail from Dekina local government area of Kogi State, of Igala ethnic group. I was born on July 27, 1998 in Anyigba Dekina local government area. I have 5 siblings. I did my primary school at Grace Christian School, Anyigba, where I obtained my First School Leaving Certificate, and went ahead to Isah Memorial College, Ajiyolo Dekina local government for my secondary education. I proceeded to Kogi State University from where I graduated in 2019, now awaiting NYSC call up. Presently, I am into makeup. My brand name is Siyat Makeover, which I derived from Asiyah, my first name. The Business I developed an interest in makeup artistry right from my childhood days. There had been times in those days when I would just stay glued to the mirror, trying to do something different with cosmetics. I was curious about the beautiful makeups I see on some ladies’ faces – how they achieved the curves and lines, and then the colour combination. It was this curiosity that became my driving force. At my very young age, I would dress my eyebrows and tried to do something different on my face. Any lady on fine makeup would easily catch my attention. I started realising how much I had fallen in love with makeup. Then the thought came – this has to be my line. At my early age, I already told myself that I would be a makeup artist. I would look for every opportunity to research on the internet for beautiful makeups. I spent more time on YouTube, live streaming on how to do good makeup, as a human kinetic and health education student. Also, my teacher, Munirat Suleiman, was very helpful. I paid diligent attention to her instructions, so I could become one among the best makeup artist in Nigeria. I aspire that my brand name goes beyond Nigeria. For this purpose, I have been putting in so much efforts, which yielded the positive result you are seeing today. I started officially in 2015. Presently I am making some good money for myself. It is a natural gift in me, which has made me stand out. You know learning is for a lifetime, I still work hard to become better in my business day-by-day, including watching YouTube for upgrades. Mentors My parents: My father is a successful businessman, and he has been so supportive. He didn’t have any objection to my chosen career. Honestly, my dad helped me financially and also encouraged me with kind words. So also my mother, she has been wonderful. She has not stopped advising me and supporting me in every way needed. Both of them overwhelmed me with love I must say. Relaxation It has to be reading books on love and intimacy. As I said earlier, I desire any YouTube video that teaches makeup artistry. I always search the internet to keep myself updated on my chosen career. Challenges As simple as the job may seem, it is very tasking. One of my challenges or fears is: time to meet up with clients’ need. There are some times I would have many customers at the same time. Trying to satisfy them becomes a big challenge. But I still try my best all the time to keep my clients, so they’ll always come back to me whenever they need my service. Achievement I really thank God for how far I have gone in this business. I have achieved a lot within a short period that I started this business officially. I began this business with a small shop, but now I have expanded, and even render outdoor services for new brides. Future projection With time, I would love to upgrade, so that I can start up my business in more advanced environments, like, England and Saudi Arabia. How are you able to multitask? It is not easy combining business and profession with family life, but with the help of the almighty God, I have already risen above most challenges that arose in the past. I always prepare myself daily for surprises, so they don’t overwhelm me. Words of wisdom Try to discover your talent, be focus on what you’re trying to do, give it time and develop more ways to improve on your work. Time is needed; think how much time and energy you need to get to your desired height at a particular time. As a woman, you need to have something doing that will bring money into the family. You have to start from somewhere in other to land somewhere, It’s an adage by African Heroes, No one is an Island. We all depend on other people to survive. You can start a domestic business or an enterprise, which will increase your family means of livelihood.