The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is again heading for the Supreme Court to ask the apex court to review its own judgements on the 2019 presidential election. Similarly, the party wants the Supreme Court to revisit its verdicts on the governorship elections in Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, and Osun States, which the All Progressives Congress (APC’s) candidates won. The party said yesterday that its decision to call the apex court to revisit its earlier verdicts was in light of the APC resolve to cause for a reversal of judgements on Bayelsa and Zamfara States’ governorship elections. The two states were awarded to the PDP by the Supreme Court, which disqualified the APC candidates, who had won the contests at the polls. The national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, who revealed the decision of the party at a press conference in Abuja, alleged that the APC had been threatening and piling pressure on the justices of the Supreme Court to force a reversal of the judgements on Bayelsa and Zamfara governorship elections. When pressed to reveal whether the party had briefed its lawyers on the revisit of the verdict on the presidential election, Ologbondiyan replied that when the party files the appeal it would be made public. He dismissed claims that the PDP was merely calling the bluff of the APC, stressing that party would not respond to conjectures on the ruling party‘s intention but on the action it had taken so far. The PDP spokesman justified the party‘s demand for a review of apex court verdict on the Imo State governorship election, noting that there were manifest errors in the judgement which were obvious even to the international community. The Supreme Court had in October last year dismissed the appeal filed by PDP and its presidential candidate, former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, against the re-election of President Buhari. The seven-member panel led by Justice Tanko Mohammed held that having gone through all the documents and exhibits, the panel discovered that the appeal lacked merit. The apex court had also dismissed the appeals of PDP and the governorship candidates in Kano, Kaduna, Katsina, and Osun States. However, at the press conference yesterday, Ologbondiyan who claimed the APC had designed a plot to „subjugate and browbeat the justices and direct judicial determinations to suit their selfish ends“ on Bayelsa and Zamfara States, said that PDP hadno option than to seek a review of the apex court verdicts on the appeals it lost. He said: „The public space is already awash with reports of how the APC has been threatening and piling pressure on the justices of the Supreme Court to force a reversal of valid judgments already delivered on the Bayelsa and Zamfara governorship elections, where the party (APC) suffered self-inflicted losses. “Nigerians know that the APC has been going through a haemorrhage since the Supreme Court delivered valid judgments on Bayelsa and Zamfara and as a result, they are no longer interested in the logic of these judgments. They have since thrown caution to the wind to destabilise our nation and destroy our hard-earned democracy, especially the judiciary. The APC-led federal government is leading all forms of battles against the rule of law and constitutionalism. “The PDP holds that our sacrifices for the sustenance of democracy, as demonstrated in our patriotic comportment towards the verdicts of the court on the presidential election as well as Osun, Kano, Katsina and Kaduna governorship elections tribunal, subsist. “Moreover, there is a consensus among majority of Nigerians and even the international community that there was obvious miscarriage of justice by the Supreme Court panel on the Imo State governorship election, for which the PDP accordingly reverted to the Supreme Court asking it to correct the manifest mistakes and errors in that judgment, which are already in the public domain. “However, the PDP finds it ludicrous, ridiculous and insulting to the sensibilities and respect of the Supreme Court Justices for the APC to hurriedly and malevolently head to the Supreme Court to attempt to arm twist the lord justices to effect a forceful reversal of the valid, flawless and faultless judgments on Bayelsa and Zamfara States’ governorship elections. “Consequently, the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP, after comprehensive consultations, states that our party has no choice left, given the manner with which the APC has conducted itself, than to ask for a review of the judgment of the presidential election petitions tribunal, where the issue of certificate forgery and or presentation of false information in aid of qualifications was clearly established against the APC and her presidential candidate. “The same applies to the judgment on the Katsina governorship election petition, where lawyers also established similar issue of certificate forgery. The PDP equally has no choice than to ask the Supreme Court to review the Kano, Kaduna and Katsina election judgments, because of manifest violence and substantial non-compliance with our electoral law. “The PDP also asks the Supreme Court to review its judgment on the Osun governorship election in view of manifest, complete and total disregard to our electoral rules in the conduct of the elections,“ he said. Ologbondiyan warned that the party would not fold its hands and watch enemies of the hard-earned democracy, „who contributed nothing to its birth, to continue to appropriate our collective sovereignty for their selfish political gains while destroying our institutions and holding our people to ransom.“ Opposition party a joker, says APC In a swift reaction, the APC described the PDP requests as a joke on the nation’s political space. The ruling party stressed that the requests were borne out of “idleness” and called on the opposition party to consider rice farming as a viable alternative, adding that this would afford them the opportunity to contribute their quota to national development. In a statement issued by APC’s national publicity secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, the party said that it was not surprised by the latest move, claiming that the PDP had turned itself into a clog in the wheel of Nigeria’s democratic journey. Issa-Onilu said: “The call by the PDP on the Supreme Court to review its rulings on the presidential and governorship elections in Osun, Kano, Kaduna, and Katsina States, has, once again, exposed the joke the opposition party has turned itself into in our nation‘s political space. “Never in the history of our democratic journey has a political party made mockery of what a responsible opposition politics entails. The PDP‘s call has once again, reinforced our party‘s belief that the PDP has become a clog in the wheels of our country‘s political evolution. “For the APC, PDP‘s latest antics is no surprise. Nigerians would recall that we have consistently reiterated that the opposition party, having been overwhelmingly rejected at the polls in 2015 and 2019, has been exhibiting strange behaviours. “We believe it has been difficult for some leaders of PDP to cope for so long outside of power. There is obviously a lot of idleness at the Wadata House Secretariat of the PDP. “At this period that our government is working hard to ensure food sufficiency in the country, we urge those jobless characters at the Wadata House to seriously consider taking up rice farming. This would make them useful to our country,” he said. It’s Utter Irresponsibility – BMO Also yesterday, the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) described the PDP’s move as utter irresponsibility. The chairman of BMO, Niyi Akinsuju, however, assured the PDP that it would be disgraced again at the apex court, saying its attempt at confusion would come to naught. He added that PDP‘s resolve to return to the apex court over the verdicts that favoured the APC is an exemplar of the pernicious entity that it has evolved into. According to BMO, it is „an entity that engages in cheap blackmail and wicked manipulation of the Nigerian mass through unconscionable lies and a wicked determination to reduce the standing of the nation‘s judiciary with its shameless ‘area boy’ ambush of the revered apex court of the nation, the Supreme Court.“ Akinsuju added that „there‘s no basis for a logical response to this utter irresponsibility being espoused by the PDP. It‘s this same PDP that broke tradition and convention by insisting it was going to approach the Supreme Court for a review of a matter the apex court had effectively made a final ruling on. “Now that the ruling party decided to try equity on the same, the PDP resorted to its usual wolf cry and pedestrian whining, and decidedly threw caution and logic to the winds. It is absolute irresponsibility and symbolises an opposition party that has failed,” he said. Time frame for instituting such cases has  elapsed – Senior lawyers Meanwhile, some prominent lawyers have said that the time allowed by law to enter any appeal at the Supreme Court in the presidential election petition has since expired. The Supreme Court has no jurisdiction to go into re-appeal in the matter because the 60 days allowed for an appeal began to read the very day the Court of Appeal delivered judgement in the Atiku Vs Buhari matter. Supreme Court judgement, they said can only be reversed by Act of parliament, not by mere re-appeal. The chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Anti-corruption (PACAC), Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), said that “this is a presidential election petition which began at the Court of Appeal and then to the Supreme Court. Time for appeal at the apex court has long expired. I don’t think they are serious, rather trying to turn judiciary to laughing stock at the international circle. That is pure sabotage of the country, simply akin to causing anarchy on the land.” A constitutional lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN) described the agitations from political actors for the review of the judgments as very sad and unfortunate Ozekhome said: „It is very sad that whenever politicians win a case, they say the judiciary is on song. They say justice has been delivered and served. They say democracy works. “But once they lose a case, not only will they criminalise the judiciary; not only will they vilify the judge that delivered the judgement; not only will they use expletives against the judges that delivered the judgements; they will quickly say democracy is on trial, or that democracy or justice has been purchased. „This is because our politicians have never learnt to accept defeat honourably. They are bad losers,” he said. On his part, Ahmed Raji (SAN) said that while the Supreme Court rules allow for a review in a very limited way, there are other factors to be considered. “If their case can be accommodated under the rules and decided authorities on the point, why not? But the greatest challenge will be the 60-day time-limit. The position of the court is that after 60 days from the date of the judgment of the Court of Appeal in an election petition, the Supreme Court ceases to have jurisdiction. That is the hurdle,” Raji said. Chief Ifedayo Adedipe (SAN) agreed with his colleagues, stating the politicians are not serious. He maintained that “the Supreme Court is the final court of the land. Their decisions can only be changed by legislation. “The provisions in the Supreme Court Act for a review of judgment have to do with correcting clerical mistakes. Besides, the court cannot revisit any decision it has rendered. The calls with profound respect, is mischievous,” he said. Supreme Court To Hear Bayelsa Gov’ship Case Tomorrow In another development, the Supreme Court has fixed February 26, 2020 for the hearing of the APC application for the review of its judgment that sacked the governor-elect of the state, David Lyon, from being sworn in as the state governor. The “controversial” judgment which was delivered a day to the inauguration of Lyon, and his running mate, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, rattled the party’s hierarchy. While disqualifying Degi-Eremienyo’s candidacy, the five-man panel of the court ruled that the ruling had rendered the joint ticket held by him and Lyon a nullity. Consequently, the APC, through its lawyers, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) and Lateef Fagbemi (SAN), on February 20, 2020, filed an application before the Supreme Court contending that the apex court gave a wrong interpretation to the judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja. The said judgment was affirmed in the February 13, 2020 apex court’s verdict. Olanipekun argued that the November 12, 2019 verdict of the Federal High Court affirmed by the apex court did not nullify the party’s ticket. He contented that the apex court denied his client fair hearing by disqualifying its governorship candidate even when the Federal High Court refused to grant such order even though it was sought by the plaintiffs who originated the suit.