Following the Federal Government’s adoption of a new visa policy, known as visa on arrival, experts have weighed in on the investment prospect that will accrue to Nigeria, while warning of the need to put structures, mechanisms in place to absorb the attendant onslaught against our cultures and value systems. OMONU NELSON writes. One of the encumbrances that have been inhibiting inter-Africa movement and trade is visa bottlenecks. Throughout Africa, only few countries operates visa on arrival policy. Countries such as Sierra Leone, Ethiopia, Kenya and Rwanda are among the few that currently grant visa on arrival to all Africans. However, with Nigeria joining the fray, experts say this might open the door to other African countries for the adoption visa on arrival policy. Over the years, stakeholders in the travel and tourism sector have advocated for visa on arrival, which they argued would help grow inbound tourism and investment for Nigeria. But in a surprise declaration on December 11, in far away Egypt, President Muhammadu Buhari announced a visa on arrival policy for all Africans coming to Nigeria. Until the arrival of this policy, only holders of the Economic Community for West African States (ECOWAS) passport could come into Nigeria without the need for visas. Citizens of few other countries with which Nigeria had agreements with such as Seychelles and Kenya, could come into the country and obtain a visa on arrival. On the impact of the policy, the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola says the new visa regime will have direct impact on Nigeria’s economy. In order to attract more Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) into Nigeria, which will in turn provide more jobs for the masses, the federal government has launched the Nigerian Visa Policy (NVP) 2020. The Minister expressed the commitment of his ministry to the implementation of the NPV 2020 in view of its supervisory role on the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). Aregbesola assured that the NIS would adhere to the published conditions of issuance of visas in a professional, timely and transparent manner, explaining that the NIS would invest heavily in the training of the officers and men that will be charged with the responsibility of processing visas in all visa issuing centers and passport control at our points of entry. On the fear of insecurity, the Controller General of the Nigerian Immigration Service, Muhammed Babandede said, “What we need to harp on is that Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and other security agencies should adequately and professionally do their job of checking and scrutinising properly the tourists as they arrive the country. “Besides, the visa on arrival policy mostly affects air travel and this means of travel involves high security measures. So, there is absolutely no security challenges whatsoever if Nigeria’s security apparatuses will do their job Professionally.” Dr Muktar Imam of the department of International Relations and Diplomacy, Baze University, Abuja, agrees with the Minister of Internal Affairs that the policy will mark a new vista in the government drive for Foreign Direct Investments. “The new visa policy is more or less in line with the government agenda of trying to create an ease of doing business environment for prospective investors willing to come and invest in portfolio to real sector investment. “So, if you look at it from economic perspective, it will give insight into what government wants to achieve. That is to say, it allows people to come in with ease; to access Nigerian visa with ease. Again, from economic perspective, Nigeria is lacking behind as far as Foreign Direct Investments is concerned. “Take example of countries like the Democratic Republic of Congo. It is the 5th on the list of countries attracting Foreign Direct Investment into its countries, considering the African configuration and the 50 plus countries in Africa. From that perspective, it is a welcome development.” Dr Imam however cautioned that, “Like every social phenomenon, NVP has its cons as well. Just like globalization and liberalization, if you allow the ease movement of goods, services and people, there are always consequences. For example, we are seeing the cross border activities of terrorists around the world. We are seeing the cross border movement of ideology, which basically leads to cultural imperialism. We are also seeing the cross border movement of diseases. “Nigeria that is already burdened by a lot of issues like health, economy and social issues as well. Our cultural values are been thrown overboard. A lot of issue around health, epidemic and all that we have not been able to tackle. “The question is, with the outbreaks of different epidemics around the world, if we allow NVP take effect at random because we are trying to win Foreign Direct Investment, have we been able to put in place structures, mechanisms to help as shock absorber as result of this invasion?” He advised government to maximize where Nigeria has strength and find a way of curtailing where Nigeria has weakness. In other words, there is need for SWOT analysis in this regard. Reacting to the policy, the founder of Akwaaba Africa Travel Market, Ikechi Uko, described the policy as a movement towards the right direction, adding that other African countries such as Ghana and Ethiopia have since commenced issuing visa on arrival. “Visa on arrival means I come to your country, whether I’ve booked online or not, and I can pick up the visa at the airport. Ghana started it last year; Rwanda, Ethiopia, Seychelles, Kenya does that. Nigeria does that to only Seychelles and Kenya in Africa; they are the only Africans that can come to Nigeria that way. Every other African has to apply and get an approval and pay before coming to Nigeria, that’s what Nigeria is currently doing.” He continued: “What Buhari is now offering is to do what other countries like Ghana, Rwanda does; that you can pick it on arrival. But I’m reading stories that Nigeria has already started visa on arrival without approval, no! Nigeria is still following the old process; someone has to apply, get approval, pay before you start coming to Nigeria. That’s the process now, we haven’t changed.” While commending the president for the move, Uko, a renowned travel and tourism expert observed, “Those of us in tourism have been fighting for visa on arrival and open skies before now, but the way Nigeria’s own was done, it wasn’t done with industry participation; it was more like political. “That’s why a lot of people in the industry were taken unawares; they actually have no opinion anymore. People outside the industry are the ones responding more, so, there might be some things they know that we don’t know. They are talking about security, about migration… we can’t talk about those things because we don’t know. For me, those things they are talking about, we can only observe and find out what exactly are they saying.” On the positive side of the proposed policy, he said, “That’s actually what we need. For people, who do events, visa on arrival is your best bet; it solves all the problems for you. The biggest thing for every event you do is having people arrive; if people don’t arrive, what do you do? Your event can’t work without people arriving, especially when it’s an international event. Everything we do, we depend on the immigration and they have been cooperating with us.” On possible security risk, Uko said, “It’s because of Nigeria’s peculiar problem; the migration by the herdsmen, which is actually the biggest complaint I’ve seen in the media. Outside that, I’ve not heard of any other complain.”In her reaction, Peace Anyiam-Osigwe of AMAA explained that visa on arrival doesn’t mean a no visa policy. “It means that visitors will be given visas on arrival, which obviously come with its own time restrictions. The policy would impact on tourism and trade arrival; Rwanda saw a 24 percent increase in tourism arrivals and a 50 percent increase in intra-African trade. Trade with the Democratic Republic of the Congo alone increased by 73 percent.” On the fear of insecurity and Nigeria becoming a dumping ground, which remains a major concern for most Nigerians, the filmmaker said, “This is because we realise we have officials in immigration and customs, who might not enforce the laws adequately if people breach their entry visas. As much as Rwanda, Kenya and Uganda and some other African countries have adequate security measures to protect them from an influx of the wrong people, Nigeria too can do so.” She informed that over 15 percent of the world’s jobs are created within the tourism sector, adding that Nigeria has immense possibilities to grow this sector and market it well. “It would also bring down the huge cost of running our missions within the continent. Increased tourism will give rise to new business opportunities in tour guides, affordable accommodation transport, shopping and food.” For Lagos-based tourism practitioner, Mohammed Abdulahi, visa on arrival policy is a welcome development as it aims to connect Africans easier and better. “It will certainly affect tourism positively because more African tourists will be flooding the country and the ripple effect will be a boom on hotel occupancy, more spending into the economy and of course, more money into the coffers of government through the visa on arrival charges. The advantage of the policy is that it eliminates the time wasting and bureaucracy associated with conventional visa application process, which discourages tourists from traveling.” Describing the proposed visa on arrival policy as a welcome development for Nigeria, Mohammed Kwajaffa of South Africa Tourism said it enables easy access for tourists and investors into the country. “On impact, globally, tourism grows faster once access factors such as visa is made easier as more tourists/investors means more hotels needed to accommodate them, more restaurants to feed them, etc. The private sector needs to take advantage of the opportunity to offer more products and experiences to sustain the influx.” For Efetobo Awhana, founder Nigeria Tourism Award (The Balearica Award), for there to be any positive benefits to the tourism industry, there’s need for active involvement of the industry. “Visa on arrival schemes in other countries come with certain requirements and there are also designated ports of entry. I for one have gotten a single entry visa on arrival in Mozambique around 2011/12 and then left the country to the neighboring Kruger National Park, hoping to get stamped back into the country, but wasn’t able to do so. “I was told the visa on arrival was only possible at designated airports like Maputo. So, what are the details of our visa on arrival policy? If the industry players don’t have the details, how can we take advantage,” he quizzed. He continued: “Are the visas free on arrival? When is the commencement or has it commenced? Communication will be very crucial to the success of the policy. By success, I mean economic advantage for the tourism industry and for Nigeria through creation of jobs and much needed revenue flow. With clear articulation, it presents an opportunity for the industry to target inbound tourists from around Africa, which have always been our lowest hanging fruits as per issues of culture shock and blending in. There’s already a yearning largely created by the love for Nigerian celebs from Nollywood and music industry, special marketing campaigns and MICE initiatives such as Akwaaba Travel Market and Nigeria Travel Week can be used to capture the African market,” he said.