The Rotary Club of Abuja Capital Territory, District 9125, has offered a one-year scholarship programme to 30 students of Junior Secondary School, Life Camp, in Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). The club also donated educational materials, such as textbooks, exercise books and writing materials to the school. Presenting the materials and letters of the scholarship to the benefitting students in the school, president of the club, Rotn Ndidiamaka Uchuno, explained that the gesture is part of the focus of the Rotary Club, in reducing illiteracy and ensuring education for students. Uchuno disclosed that the club is also considering how to support and assist more students in the school, especially the indigent ones whose parents cannot afford to pay for their upkeep in the school. “The scholarship project is just for one year, after which we will select another set of beneficiaries. So, the process is that every year, we get the best students for this scholarship. Of course, remember also that among some of the best students, their parents can actually afford to pay for their school fees, but we are also making provision for the indigent students, who cannot afford it.” The Rotary Club president also appealed to policy makers in the county to make school environment more conducive for learning for children, noting that many schools are not conducive for learning. “You will be shocked that when you get to some schools, they don’t even have toilets, desks and even classrooms to learn. Sometime some schools don’t even have writing materials or uniforms for the students.” “So if the ministry of education can come in and create n enabling environment for learning in the schools, the society will be better for it.” Also speaking, the principal of the school, Aisha Ibrahim, thanked the club for the gesture and disclosed that the 30 benefitting students were those who took first, second and third positions in their classes in last term’s results, adding that the selection was based on merits. Ibrahim added that the selected best students in each of the classes had earlier been given an award by the school at the end of last term, even as she also appealed to other spirited individuals to assist more students in the school, especially the indigent ones, to make learning less difficult for them.