Ahead of the upcoming review of the supreme court judgement on Imo State governorship election fixed for tomorrow, February 18,  to hear the case filed by former governor of Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, asking the apex court to reverse itself in the judgement that sacked him from office as the governor of the state, the alliance of civil societies have called for new panel of judges. The CSOs, in a press briefing in Abuja yesterday by its leader, Ugochuckwu Hanks-Ezekiel, demanded that “a new panel should look into the review.” According to the group, “Since the judgement, Nigerians from all walks of life, irrespective of political and religious persuasion have voiced concern over that miscarriage of justice. “ Little wonder we have witnessed protests even in places like Katsina, Akwa Ibom, Anambra etc. Commentaries and conversations have not ceased on this troubling judgment. But owing to the fact that there are judicial precedents for review as no human endeavour is infallible, it is our conviction that their Justices will demonstrate courage on Tuesday, February 18 and bring an end to the odium the court has endured and secure the sanctity of the courts.” As part of its demands, the CSOs also noted that “the Court owes ‘Imolites’ and Nigerians in general the clarity as to what happened to the votes of the PDP and other parties in the 388 units tendered by the APC and its candidate. “… As there was no proof before the Court nor did the Supreme Court state how it arrived at the declaration that Hope Uzodinma met the constitutionally required geographical spread. To meet this requirement, the Supreme Court ought to state the scores and percentages of all the 70 candidates that contested the election, local government by local government. This was not done by the Supreme Court and therefore had no basis and jurisdiction to declare the winner.” It would be noted that the Supreme Court had fixed February 18, 2020 to hear the case filed by former governor of Imo State, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha, asking the apex court to reverse itself in the judgement that sacked him from office as the governor of the state. In the application he filed before the court, he explained why he approached the Supreme Court for an order setting aside its own judgement. A seven-member panel of the apex court had in a judgement delivered on January 14 removed Ihedioha from office on the grounds that he did not win majority of the votes cast in the March 9 governorship election in the state. Not satisfied with the verdict, Ihedioha on February 5 approached the court to set aside the judgement removing him from office. He said he had to do so because the judgement of the apex court was a nullity in the sense that the court was misled in arriving at the decision to remove him from office.