The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) yesterday, destroyed substandard mobile phone accessories worth N480 million
Director- general, SON, Osita Aboloma, said the phone accessories were seized by SON for not meeting up with required standards.
Aboloma said the move was to serve as deterrent to unscrupulous importers who indulged in illicit trade to short-change unsuspecting consumers of their hard-earned money spent purchasing these goods.
Aboloma, who was represented by Engr. Obiora Manafa, Director, Inspectorate, Compliance and Directorate, SON at the destruction exercise at Epe, Lagos, said the organisation was on top of its game to ensure that these goods did not find their way into the Nigerian market, He stressed that the safety of lives and property of Nigerians was of great importance to SON.
“We are here today to destroy some products that are dangerous and we do not want them to enter the markets. They are mobile accessories and they are fake, the major brands such as Samsung, Techno, Infinix, Huawei and lots of others. We seized these items late last year. “We seized them from a commercial warehouse in Lagos but the products are not owned by the owner of the warehouse. We subjected these products to laboratory analysis and they all failed,” he said.
ccording to him, importers of the substandard mobile accessories have offended by faking these known brands, stating that the negative impact on the investment of the original brand owners is huge.
“Firstly, they have contravened the law of the country. They faked known brands and when we showed these products to the original brand owners, they denied ownership which means that they are fake brands. We also went further to do the analysis and they all failed the test. We are also looking at these accessories from two aspects which include the economic and safety points of view.
“The economic point is that the accessories you buy will not last more than a week and this to us, do not make economic sense because you do not get value for the money spent.
“The safety aspect is that these accessories pose serious threat to the users. When we tested the insulation parameters of these products, they all failed woefully. ” The IEC standards of power states that the minimum power you get from these products should be 1000 mega ohms, but the values we got after testing gave only 60 mega ohms. So it is as bad as using naked wires because it is not preventing any flow of current, exposing the users to electric shocks and can even burn houses,” he added.
Aboloma noted that SON cannot allow these products to enter the Nigerian market, saying that the products were destroyed after obtaining a court order.
“These products are valued over N480 million. We are not happy burning these products because it is a loss to owners.
“ The owners have spent so much money to import these products and the whole investment is going into flames. It is even a drain on the national economy and nobody is happy about that, but we have our primary responsibility to protect lives and property of Nigerians.
“Life supersedes everything and we are not going to allow these products into the market,” he said. He said SON was still on the trail of the importers of these goods with no economic value, pointing out that the agency would stop at nothing until it got them prosecuted.
Also speaking at the event, the Head, Enforcement, Nigeria Copyright Commission (NCC) Lagos Office, Charles Amudipe, commended SON for its fight against substandard goods in the country, noting that the counterfeited products were not fit for use. “At NCC, we deal with infringing materials, piracy and all the likes and just like these products we are having here.
“They are counterfeited and they are not fit for the end users. What SON is doing today is a huge leap that is the fight against counterfeit.
“People that have worked hard, invested heavily and laboured to put these goods in the market will not reap the benefits of their investment if SON allowed these substandard accessories into the market.
“So what SON has done today has contributed immensely to the growth of the GDP of the economy of Nigeria,” he said.
He assured Nigerians that the federal government was working hard to ensure that consumers got value for their hard earned money spent on goods and services.