The Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Nigeria, Dr. Zhou Pingjian, has identified industrialisation strategies, and good governance through quality leadership of those at the helm of affairs, as the tools used to arrest his country’s population growth. Besides, Pingjian added that through good family planning policy, his country was able to make economic growth in the lives of its citizens with one couple, one child, stressing that without family planning, the population of China by now would have been over six billion people. The ambassador stated this yesterday while delivering a lecture at the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), Kuru, near Jos, to the Senior Executive Course 42 with the theme, “Managing Population Growth and Human Capital Development: The Chinese Experience.” LEADERSHIP Weekend recalled that the theme for the senior executive course SEC 42 is titled  “Population Growth and Human Capital Development: Challenges and Opportunities” The Chinese envoy also said that with good leadership on ground, coupled with proper family planning, the birth rate was drastically reduced. According to him, with the focus of the Chinese government, the population growth has been kept low than the Gross Development Progression (GDP) as the family planning policy has been consistent with a lot of flexibility however. Pingjian pointed out that with that, China had been able to make progress as last year alone, China created over 13.52 million jobs. “In the past eight years, we have been able to create over 30 million jobs at the annual rate of 12 million jobs.” He said that China and Nigeria had been good friends for over 49 years now when China tied diplomatic relation with Nigeria which has been very cordial and symbiotic which cannot be broken. He feared that Nigeria’s population come 2050 will be close to that of China, saying that the present population of China excludes Hongkong and Taiwan that are still suffering from civil war experience, coming to the conclusion that the country has made positive progress. According to him, they embark on family planning, without any regrets, noticing that wherever he goes in Nigeria, there are no high rise buildings unlike what obtains in China.  