The Borno state commissioner of police, Mohammed Ndatsu Aliyu , has said that a joint investigation is ongoing between the police and the Army to unravel the circumstances surrounding the killing of a police officer, Sgt Rowland Tafida with an anti-aircraft gun by yet to be named Army corporal. The unnamed Army corporal extra-judicially killed Sgt Tafida who was among the MOPOL Special Forces Team deployed to Gwoza last August, on counter-insurgency operations. Narrating to LEADERSHIP, the level of investigation into the matter in Maiduguri , CP Aliyu said even though the late Sgt Tafida was on special operation to Borno state from another command, the Borno police command entered into the investigation because the incident occurred within its jurisdiction. CP Aliyu added that some soldiers are already in military detention facility in connection to the murder of sgt Rowland Tafida. He said :” I will not hide anything from you, like I told you, this is a joint investigation. The Military have received our own report of the investigation, if they are through, they will bring their own report to us. ” We will now sit down and look at the two reports. What are similar? What are different? Which question are we to ask? And which answer have we gotten? At the end of the day, but I know, I don’t want to preempt anything, already some soldiers are in detention in connection to the case,” CP Aliyu further noted. Corroborating CP Aliyu, a top Military police officer involved in the Military aspect of the investigation, but spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the 7 division Military police unit is investigating the murder. The source said at the end of the investigation, it will be passed to the office of the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 7 division of the Nigerian Army for next line of action. The late Police officer our correspondent gathered would have completed his six months anti-terrorism operation on February 8, 2020. Sources who witnessed the killing said the unfortunate incident started with an altercation between the Army corporal and another Police personnel over a girlfriend. The source said some people intervened and settled the matter before the aggrieved Army corporal asked a driver of an anti-aircraft gun Hilux belonging to his military base, to turn and directly face the Limankara Police Training Camp. The source added that immediately after turning the vehicle, they opened fire and shot at the Camp’s facility, adding that It was at that moment, Rowland Tafida, the late police sergeant, was killed by a stray bullet because he was not involved in the earlier altercation. According to the source , the blast of the anti-aircraft vehicle totally disfigured his left leg thigh as he was returning to the camp after he went to charge his phone somewhere. ” The late officer could have survived the terrible assault, but nobody could take him to a medical facility as he lied in his own pool of blood, bleeding profusely and bled to death,” the source revealed. End