Leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) at the weekend passed a vote of no confidence on authority of the Ogun state command of the Nigeria Police Force following the spate of brutalities and killing of Innocent citizens by operatives of the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) in the state. In a “Save Our Soul” message to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, yesterday, NANS Joint Campus Committee (JCC) condemned the activities and operations of personnel of the force and demanded that the IG should forthwith, restructure the command before SARS operatives kill more innocent people in the state. In a petition signed by the duo of the NANS-JCC Chairman for Ogun state, Bamigbose Tomiwa as well as the President of the National Association of Ogun state Students (NAOSS), Ogunrombi Oluwagbemileke, to the IG, the students described as, “disgraceful, willful killings” of innocent citizens across the Ogun state command by men of the police, particularly the SARS operatives and other sister units such as the Zonal Intervention Squad generally referred to as F-SARS. “In Ogun state alone, the level of unprofessionalism being displayed is a source of concern to us and it constitutes serious threat to our continued existence as citizens. In the past week, we have lost too numerous a people. “On Wednesday 19th of February, 2020, men of the Nigeria Police Force, Ogun Command drove against traffic which led to the death of over five persons, including secondary school students in Obada area of the state”. “As if that was not enough, the police, all in the name of chasing guys suspected of being into internet fraud, shot three Hausa traders at the popular Olomore Market. ‘’On Saturday 22nd February, 2020 again, a promising young guy was also chased to death at Sagamu area of the state by operatives of the Zonal SARS”. “Of recent, the Police Command in the State colluded with some elements (Vigilante) to accuse the Students’ Union President of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro of cultism without conducting any preliminary investigation to establish his culpability. The SUG President was even paraded as a suspected criminal at the force’s command headquarters in Eleweran, Abeokuta”.  