In this piece, ANTHONY AWUNOR writes that safety certification of domestic airlines in the country goes a long way in reinforcing the status of Nigeria in the global aviation industry Of recent, the International Air Association (IATA) had confirmed that Nigerian carriers and others across Sub-Saharan African are making progress in air safety. The data released by IATA on the 2018 safety performance of the commercial airline industry, showed continuing safety improvements over the long term, but an increase in accidents compared to 2017. The report, however, stated that, for a third consecutive year, airlines in Sub-Saharan Africa experienced zero jet hull losses and zero fatalities in jet operations. It added that all accident rate was 2.71, a significant improvement over the rate of 6.80 for the previous five years.  According to IATA, Africa was the only region to see a decline in the all-accident rate compared to 2017, despite two fatal turboprop accidents, neither of which involved a scheduled passenger flight. Domestic Airlines And Safety Compliance Airlines, both local and foreign are audited from time to time. Be they safety, economic or personnel audit, these audits come from different organisations within a certain period of time. One major audit, any serious domestic airline must go through, however, is the IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) programme. IOSA is an internationally recognised and accepted evaluation system designed to assess the operational management and control systems of an airline with a 2-year validity period. Although most Nigerian airlines, including, Air Peace, Arik, Med-View, Dana and others are on the IATA membership but they are also required to maintain their IOSA registration. There are currently 431 airlines on the IOSA Registry of which 131 are non-IATA members and the IOSA programme is undergoing a digital transformation that will enable IOSA airlines to compare and benchmark their performance. In the long run, the digital transformation will help to focus auditing on areas with the highest level of safety risk. Benefits Experts have pointed out that there are many benefits attached to any airline that has been able to maintain its membership in the IOSA registry. Some of the benefits, according to them include comparable proof of conformity and operational safety;  continuous improvement and access to best practices within the aviation world; costs and time savings as fewer audits are needed; business opportunities including aircraft leasing, air charter and other alliances and ultimately becoming an IATA membership possible for which IOSA is mandatory. Air Peace As Pacesetter For Safety Standards Local airlines in the country have demonstrated their readiness to comply with the global best practices. With Air Peace, Dana, Medview, Arik and others in IATA membership, the carriers have continuously committed to raising the bar of their operational efficiency with an airline model that guarantees sustainability and professionalism in Nigeria’s aviation industry. Air Peace, for instance acquired its third IATA Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) recently. The continuous validation of IOSA certificate means that, the fast growing airline has passed through all the hurdles and requirements, showing a high level of compliance to safety as enshrined in global aviation safety practices. While presenting the certificate to Air Peace recently, head of Account Management, West and Central Africa (IATA), Dr Samson Fatokun, commended Air Peace, for upholding high standards of safety in its flight operations. Fatokun congratulated the Air Peace team for achieving the rare feat. He declared that many airlines had started the safety audit but were unable to complete it. He said: “It gives me joy to present this certificate today because I know it’s the fruit of painstaking effort of your team”, adding that scaling through this third safety audit process is a testament to Air Peace’s commitment to maintaining high safety standards in its operations. Fatokun, noting that safety is IATA’s number one priority, asserted that for any airline to pass the safety audit, its safety compliance must be hundred percent, and Air Peace has met this prerequisite. “Many airlines are not able to achieve this because they don’t have the discipline and hard work which have consistently earned Air Peace this safety recognition. The certificate gives the airline a global recognition as a hundred percent safety-compliant airline,” Fatokun said In his remarks, the chairman of Air Peace, Mr Allen Onyema, affirmed that the IOSA certificate is something to be proud of, adding that Air Peace is becoming the emerging force in Africa’s aviation landscape. He expressed gratitude to the IATA team and commended the entire Air Peace team for a successful safety audit. He also assured that the airline would always align with global best practices and safety standards. According to Air Peace management, the airline came with a promise to provide comfortable and safe flights to Nigerians, while also laying the foundation for the entrenchment of peace and development of the aviation sector. With that in mind, Air Peace contracted one of the world’s best maintenance organisations, BT Aviation Maintenance Company in the United Kingdom to see to the maintenance of their fleet. To further ensure that nothing is left to chance, the airline few years ago, equally signed a Powered By Hour (PHB) contract with the world’s biggest PHB vendors, AJ Walter of United Kingdom for supply of aircraft spares. Additionally, it signed a five year deal with Flyth Solutions incorporated in Canada for the installation of Automated Flight Information Reporting System (AFIRS) on all its aircraft for flight tracking and engine trend monitoring. In partnership with IATA, In terms of security, the carrier has been up and doing. With satisfaction and reliability as their priority, the courteous and professional cabin crew are trained to be safety and security conscious. It no surprise that they always focus on providing unrivalled passenger service and world class airline safety. As a security conscious airline and due to the vigilance of the cabin crew, Air Peace had been able to foil several attempts by child traffickers to traffic children with their flights. The first of such failed attempts was when the eagle eyed cabin crew saved a 3-Month Old Baby On their Lagos-Banjul Flight two years ago. Stakeholders’ Views Speaking on Air Peace safety initiatives and the grant of IOSA certificate, president of Aviation Round Table Safety Initiative (ARTSI), Dr Gbenga Olowo commended the airline, stating that it is the way to go. Dr Olowo, an aviation expert said “IOSA continued certification validates operation according to international standards and assurance of safety. Kudos to Air Peace.” In his comment, the renowned aviation expert and former image maker of the defunct Nigerian Airways, Chris Aligbe, commended Air Peace for attaining such feat. Aligbe who is also the chief executive officer of Belujane Konzult Ltd. Said, “It is good in respect to safety because in the last four, five years, the country has been accident free. It means that for five years, the regulatory agency, that is the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has been on the airlines, trying to show them the right thing to do. So any airline, including Air Peace that gets the certification confirms the present status of Nigeria aviation sector in the global aviation industry.” Commending NCAA for keeping a close watch on the airlines, Aligbe added “Nigeria has received a lot of applause from the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) which is the apex body when it comes to safety; IATA is drawing from there to make sure that the airlines and their members and those who wants to belong to them have this certification. “It is a confirmation, and it is good because it is a further reinforcement of the status of Nigeria and a boost to the industry for people to know that as an airline, if you work assiduously well, you get this certification. And every airline in the country needs this certification to prove that we are safety conscious.” Corroborating Aligbe”s commendation for NCAA”s efforts to put the domestic airlines on track, aircraft engineer and former National President of Nigerian Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), Engr Isaac Balami told LEADERSHIP that local airlines are doing very well in terms of safety. Engr Balami pointed out that, safety has been attained to a reasonable level in Nigeria aviation industry, adding that no airline in the country is unsafe due to the strict regulatory oversight functions of the NCAA which is on top of its duties. Speaking further, Engr Balami disclosed to LEADERSHIP, that NCAA as a regulatory agency has reached a level, whereby Nigerians are envied by sister nations due to how far Nigeria has gone in regulations. “We are now being recognised by the International Civil Aviation Organisation ICAO and Europe; even the FAA of America”, he stated. For the former Commandant of the Murtala Mohammed Airport (MMA), Group Captain John Ojikutu, beyond setting the pace for a standard safety benchmark, “The coming of Air Peace with supplementary number of aircraft has helped the industry. “If not for Air Peace, the air travelling in Nigeria would have suffered consequential growth and loses. Although, there are new airlines in operations like Azman and Max Air, the number of aircraft they have brought in is far less than what was loss from Arik Air and Aero,” Ojikutu said. The Issue of safety is paramount in aviation, not only in Nigeria but globally. The recent endorsement of some of the local airlines is an assurance that the domestic airlines are getting it right in terms of safety. Meanwhile, aviation safety, according to IATA should not become a competitive issue as it would violate the industry’s position that safety is the highest priority of all involved in aviation. The extraordinary safety performance of commercial air transport, the international aviation body advised, is in large part owing to the strong spirit of cooperation on safety-related issues among airlines, manufacturers, government regulators and other stakeholders.