HopStop is an online city transit guide offering detailed, door-to-door biking, bus, subway, taxi, train, and walking directions in real time, as well as official transit maps for 600 cities around the world via Hopstop.com or apps for Android devices, iPads, iPhones, and Windows Phones. The company, founded in 2005 by Chinedu Echeruo, was named one of the top 100 fastest growing software companies in the United States in 2011. The fanfare came when United States of America’s most celebrated brand, Apple bought Nigeria’s Chinedu Echeruo’s HopStop.com. According to The Wall Street Journal’s publication, AllThingsDigital, it informed that though the term of the deal has not been disclosed officially, but HopStop has been compared to Israel’s Waze, which was recently acquired by Google for $1 billion! Founded in 2005, HopStop.com makes mobile applications for both iOS and Android that covers over 300 cities and that helps people get directions or find nearby subway stations and bus stops. Echeruo, formerly an analyst at investment banks and hedge funds, who founded HopStop, is now chairman of the Board for the app firm. The move, according to market intelligence, is seen as Apple’s plan to bolster its map offering, especially given Google’s recent acquisition of Waze. A serial entrepreneur, Echeruo, grew up in Eastern Nigeria and attended Kings College, Lagos. He attended Syracuse University and the Harvard Business School in the United States and founded HopStop.com after working for several years in the Mergers and Acquisitions and Leveraged Finance groups of J.P Morgan Chase, where he was involved in a broad range of M&A, financing and private equity transactions. Echeruo also worked at AM Investment Partners, a $500 million volatility-driven convertible bond arbitrage hedge fund. A man of ideas, he founded and raised nearly $8 million for his two U.S. based Internet companies: Hopstop.com and Tripology.com. Tripology.com was acquired in 2010 by American travel and navigation information company, Rand McNally. Apparently, Echeruo is working on yet another venture but this time, focused on small businesses in Africa. According to him, “there is no reason why every entrepreneur should have to reinvent the wheel every single time in all the countries in Africa.” The idea is to essentially have one place where a budding entrepreneur can access a template for starting a business, and then customise it to suit their own situation; essentially, a business-in-a-box.  Apple Inc. buyers of HotStop.com, is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Cupertino, California, that designs, develops, and sells consumer electronics, computer software, online services, and personal computers. Its best-known hardware products are the Mac line of computers, the iPod media player, the iPhone smartphone, the iPad tablet computer, and the Apple Watch smartwatch. Its online services include iCloud, the iTunes Store, and the App Store. Apple’s consumer software includes the OS X and iOS operating systems, the iTunes media browser, the Safari web browser, and the iLife and iWork creativity and productivity suites. Apple was founded by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald Wayne on April 1, 1976, to develop and sell personal computers. It was incorporated as Apple Computer, Inc. on January 3, 1977, and was renamed as Apple Inc. on January 9, 2007, to reflect its shifted focus towards consumer electronics. Apple joined the Dow Jones Industrial Average on March 19, 2015. Apple is the world’s second-largest information technology company by revenue after Samsung Electronics, world’s largest technology company by Total Assets and the world’s third-largest mobile phone maker. On November 25, 2014, in addition to being the largest publicly traded corporation in the world by market capitalisation, Apple became the first U.S. company to be valued at over $700 billion. Transit directions were available for several major metropolitan areas, including Atlanta; Boston; Chicago; Las Vegas; London; Los Angeles; New York City; Paris; Philadelphia; Portland, Oregon; San Francisco; Seattle; Toronto; and Washington, D.C. Chinedu Echeruo who was formerly an analyst at investment banks and hedge funds, was HopStop’s Chairman of the Board. He left HopStop in 2009 and is founder and CEO of the “cause-driven” social platform Gigameet. Joe Meyer, formerly Vice President and General Manager for AOL’s Quigo Technologies, came on as HopStop’s President and CEO in 2009. HopStop was ranked 1,182 overall on the 2011 Inc 500 | 5000 list. HopStop.com provided free customised public transit directions, as well as other related features and information relevant to public transit via HopStop.com and free Android, iOS, and Windows Phone apps. Users could get step-by-step biking, public transit, taxi, walking, and hourly car rental directions based on the travel options selected (departure time, transportation mode, more walking vs. more transfers, etc.). (Support for Android, Windows Phone, and mobile site support were withdrawn in 2013, after Apple bought the company.  HopStop.com provided directions in 600 metropolitan areas worldwide, such as: Canada Calgary, Edmonton, Halifax, Hamilton, Montreal, Ottawa, Quebec City, Saskatoon, Toronto, Vancouver, Victoria, Waterloo, Winnipeg.  Europe London, Moscow, Paris, St Petersburg.  United States Akron, Albany, Albuquerque, Allentown / Lehigh, Ann Arbor, Asheville, Atlanta, Austin, Bakersfield, Baltimore, Birmingham, Boston, Buffalo, Burlington, Charlotte, Chicago (service suspended as of October 2013), Cincinnati, Columbus, Cleveland, Dallas / Ft. Worth, Delaware, Denver / Boulder, Detroit, Eugene, Flagstaff, Fresno, Green Bay / Appleton, Hartford, Honolulu, Houston, Huntsville, Indiana, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Lansing, Las Vegas, Lexington, Little Rock, Long Island, LA, Louisville, Madison, Memphis, Metro North Area, Miami / S. Florida, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Missoula, Nashua, Nashville, New Jersey, New Orleans, New York City, Norfolk / VA Beach, Oklahoma City, Orange County, Orlando, Palm Springs, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Phoenix, Portland / Salem, Providence, Raleigh-Durham, Reno / Tahoe, Richmond, Rochester, Sacramento, Salt Lake City, San Antonio, San Diego, San Francisco, Santa Barbara, Sarasota, Seattle / Tacoma/ Olympia, Spokane, St Louis, State College, Stockton / Modesto / Tracy, Syracuse / Oswego / Utica, Tampa, Washington D.C., Wilmington. 