In commemoration of Rotary World Peace, Conflict Resolution and Prevention month, The Rotary Clubs of Apo and Rotary Club of Abuja Wuse II, has donated 20 tricycles to physically challenged victims of violence and poliomyelitis at the Ansaruddeen Society Of Nigeria, Abuja Central Mosque, even as it also donated to two disabled persons in Nyanya, a suburb within the Federal Capital Territory. The event which took place on Sunday 17th, February at the Central Mosque, also witnessed vaccination of children against Polio disease. Speaking to newsmen, President of the Rotary Club of Apo, Engr Omobola Odusoga said the event was is in line with Rotary’s peace advocacy and awareness campaign aimed at recognizing and encouraging less privileged victims of violence and polio. According to her; “We are donating these wheelchairs to aid their movement and to also encourage them to improve in their vocation. We are also here to vaccinate children with polio immunization vaccines. Rotary Club has impacted in this mosque over time, and we are looking forward to doing more,” she said. The Chief Imam of Ansarudeen Society Of Nigeria, Abuja branch, Dr Musa Olaofe in his address expressed appreciation for the kind gesture from the Rotary Clubs, saying that the offer came timely. Dr Olaofe said; “We are happy for this gift, even though it is not the victims desire to use it, but because of their condition. We’re praying for happiness and peace in Nigeria. May God bless Rotary Clubs for this gift and also those planning to support those in need.” Also speaking, the President of Rotary Club of Abuja Wuse II, Rotn Pietro Uzochukwu Macleo, in his remarks, underscored the essence of the event, saying the initiative cuts across peace building, conflict resolution and disease prevention. He said; “Rotary Clubs plans to do more for humanity. We can see genuine needs for aids and we are also determined to extend our empowerment plans to tackle these needs, especially less priviledges, widows and out-of-school children.”