…Says its plot to destabilize PMB’s kitchen cabinet The Presidential Support Committee (PSC) has dismissed a media report suggesting a crack between the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA), Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd) and the Chief of Staff (CoS) to the president, Mallam Abba Kyari as a plot to undermine President Muhammadu Buhari’s kitchen cabinet. The said report by an online newspaper on Monday claimed that the NSA, in a memo dated December 9, 2019, had fired a warning memo to all service chiefs to desist from taking further directives from Kyari, the president’s Chief of Staff who, according to the report, sometimes issues the directives without the knowledge and approval of the president, a practice Monguno puportedly said has added to government’s failure to contain insecurity. But in a statement by its director of communication and strategic planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the PSC described the report as “preposterous, spurious, callous and entirely a tissue of lies aimed at forcing concocted lies down the throat of Nigerians. Ibrahim said, “The online medium stood journalism ethics on its head in the manner it presented the report. It is nothing more than hallucination. The story is certainly a case of the voice of Jacob but the hand of Esau. This is a sponsored story premeditated at rubbishing the working relationship among the president’s kitchen cabinet. “The story should be told to the marines, instead of any rational being. Why and how on earth would the president’s Chief of Staff be accused of frustrating the fight against insurgency that is killing his own people in Borno State? “The purported crack in the President’s team is undoubtedly the figment of mischief makers’ imagination. They earn a living through blackmail, propaganda and deceit. President Buhari and his team have refused to be distracted by the onslaught of unpatriotic and thoroughly corrupt elements, who survives on crises. “President’s Buhari’s team is intact and working tirelessly on achieving the enthronement of peace and prosperity among Nigerians for all to feel the impact of government, as against the wishes of mindless criminals, who are manipulating and sponsoring the media space against the President and his men”. On the allegation that most of the directives or memos purportedly emanating from the president has no presidential blessing, the PSC wondered why those he described as sponsors of the online report thought they could convince Nigerians that President Buhari “will fold his hands and allow his appointees to run his government for him. “This is laughable. The latest tactic has also fallen like packs of cards as the ones before it. One distinguishing factor working well in favour of the Buhari administration is clear conscience and purity of motives. That is why it has continued to enjoy massive support from the people. For the umpteenth time, it is important to drum this fact into the ears of these disgruntled elements, that no amount of campaign of calumny will sow seed of discord among the president’s crack team”, Ibrahim added. 