It’s a known fact that interagency cooperation remains the hallmark of success and efficiency in all sectors of life. In this report, TARKAA DAVID writes that the absence of synergy among the nation’s security agencies is a constant reminder of the imperative of reforming the security and intelligence sector (SIS) and orients them towards collective efforts at combating contemporary security challenges facing the nation. The need for inter-agency collaboration in the fight against insurgency cannot be overemphasised as cross-purposes and the needless inter-agency rivalry is inimical to national interest. As we are all aware, instances abound where some security personnel are gruesomely killed  and others wounded in the line of duty by officers from sister security outfits, a sad development , which has often left a bitter taste in the mouth of the nation. The truth remains that there can be no excuse for such wanton act of killing by security agencies who have proven beyond reasonable doubt that they, are a house divided against itself even though most of these culprits are yet to be brought to justice. Sadly, these  incidences happens at a time when the sincerity of the federal government is being seriously questioned by concerned citizens about tackling the growing spate of kidnappings and other criminal activities in the country. Naturally though , most of these incidences are  forgotten within the next few months but  let’s not forget in a hurry that they speak directly to one of the major problems facing our national security agencies today: interagency cooperation and coordination. A popular maxim states that: ‘’When people are united, they can hardly be defeated in the face of enemy attacks’’ this maxim simply stressed that all hands must be on deck to outsmart the criminals who are always evolving ways to evade security agents. It is, therefore, disturbing to observe the prevalence of insecurity and threat to peace in the full glare of the plethora of these security agencies. Assuming that they had collaborated and pooled manpower and logistics together, insecurity and other threats to life and property would have been drastically mitigated, if not effectively eradicated. While the Nigerian Army is currently at epicenter of the war against combating Boko Haram and other security threats, the Nigeria Police are the lead agency saddled with the statutory task of maintenance of internal law and order for the protection of life and property of the citizenry, other security agencies have been established to complement this daunting task. Irrespective of this mandate, the security agencies in the polity appear to be unperturbed as they are engrossed in supremacy rivalry between and among themselves. Opinions are even divided amongst analysts over the motivating force behind this disconcerting trend. Myriads of security challenges which ranges from burglary, armed robbery, kidnapping, armed banditry, insurgency and a host of others have continued to stare Nigerians on the face despite the huge injection of taxpayers money into the security sector as part of governments sincere efforts at curbing  insecurity. Only recently, the federal government  blasted security agencies especially the Nigerian Police Force for leading in the rift amongts sister security outfits. He stressed that rivalry amongst security agencies has continued to frustrate genuine efforts by the government to curtail security threats to the nation. The minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola who security analysts have consistently blamed for the escalation of internal threats due to his inability to effectively coordinate internal security affairs in the country, challenged them to put the national interest ahead of pride and show of force. According to him, “The lack of trust, respect, coordination and collaboration of security agencies is rooted in our nation’s history. You don’t need to show off, you are a recognise security outfit so, please! embrace all the other security. I must say it clearly, the Police is guilty. The Police do not want to see any other paramilitary agency.” Aregbesola gave the knock in a goodwill message at the opening ceremony of a Two Day inter-agency synergy work organised by the Ministry of Defence with the theme “Inter-agency Synergy: An Imperative for Defence and Security Management”. “We cannot but work together to achieve that motive of acquisition of peace and work to maintain peace. We must first acquire peace before we can maintain it. We are in a crucial period as a nation considering the consequential security challenges that we are facing,” he stressed. The minister stressed the need for purposeful leadership and synergy which according to him must be enthroned in order to quail security threats. “For effective containment of security challenges, we cannot overlook the need for leadership and synergy in the administration of resources deployed to neutralise the threats. ‘’We must respect one another, we must seek to coordinate our activities, and collaborate if we want effective neutralisation of the threats. “We must strive to make our nation if Nigeria fails as a nation, the consequences on us as Africans, as Nigerians are huge and we must sustain it.” In his remarks, the minister of Defence Major General Bashir Magashi (Retired) said the workshop was organised to evolve ways of enhancing collaboration and cooperation amongst security agencies. “Over the years, many nations have suffered very serious national security setbacks for the singular reason for the lack of synergy amongst its security agencies. Such negligence and lack of patriotism in my opinion and which I believe is the position of the generality of the audience here today can be very costly and must not be tolerated within the national security network,” he said Magashi said the intention is to build bridges of understanding between sister agencies. “It is gratifying to know that the distrust with the relationship between the Armed Forces of Nigeria other security agencies particularly the Nigerian Police Force, has been virtually eliminated.” He said the gathering was to “harness the experiences, identify the gaps and seek the inputs of highly celebrated retired and serving senior military officers, security experts, scholars and develop an Inter Security Agencies Strategic Framework (ISASF),” According to him,  there is no way the nation could record victory over the security threats  being faced today without the security forces working together. “The day we strike the right cord of working together as security agencies, our country will be to a large extent eradicated of crimes and criminalities.” The Chief of Defence Staff General Gabriel Olonisakin said inter-agency collaboration is the only way out to conflict management and security provisioning in contemporary Nigeria. “There must be minimal rivalry and maximum cooperation among the organisations statutorily saddled with the responsibility of managing conflict and containing insecurity,” he said. The CDS said the collaboration between security agencies is required not just for security but also in conflict prevention, management, resolution, and national development. “Interagency collaboration is the only way out to conflict management and security provision in contemporary Nigeria. This is because each of the s security agencies has a very unique capability and operational skills that can complement the other,” he said. The CDS noted that the topography of the nation makes it prone to security challenges hence the need for potent and versatile security forces capable of guaranteeing its security. “The collaboration between agencies is therefore required not only for security but also in the areas of conflict prevention, management, resolution and national development. Today, the military has intensified efforts to build bridges of understanding between itself and other security agencies,” he said. He noted that before now, there was a cloud of mutual misperception, apprehension and suspicion between the military and other security agencies. A situation he described as inimical to military reconnaissance exercises as other security personnel within the theatre may become unwilling to divulge valuable information to the military on the activities of adversaries. “The time has, therefore, come for the security agencies to cooperate with each other as such synergy would ensure the development and progress of our dear nation.”