Kudi Fashola is the founder of the Kuddy Cosmetics global brand, whose directional prowess and acumen turned cottage bushiness to an acclaimed brand. In this chat with MILLICENT AREBUN ONUOHA and CHIDINMA ABARAONYE, the serial entrepreneur revealed the secrets of the phenomenal success of her brand, her insistence on natural products and why interest trumps money in business The journey so far Entrepreneurship for me started at a very young age, it started beautifully at the age of nine and hasn’t stopped since then. My entire family is practically into business so I come from a very enterprising family. God has been faithful, I’m a Christian. In any way, you want to grow in life just make sure you carry God along, and once that is in place, the sky is your limit. Anything we do without the fear of God, we can’t succeed especially in the Nigerian marketplace where every way you look is temptation to do business crookedly. I like money, I like making profit. I like doing things that will bring me money and that is what led to the birth and substance of Kuddy Cosmetics.  Focus has kept us going. I am interested in anything that will bring money except it’s illegal. If it’s legal, I’ll go for it, you want to do anything, you want to sell clothing, I was there, shoes I was there, I cut across different sectors and niches in the business world. Kuddy the brand is a household name today. Sometimes I look at it, I look at the business and marvel, wondering if it’s the same Kuddy Cosmetics I’m hearing all over. It has to be only God. So yes, the brand is growing and it caters for everyone – Muslims, the Christians, the whites, the blacks and all over the world. We have branches and distributors outside Nigeria, we have people that patronise Kuddy, especially the brand, in Zimbabwe, Cameron, a lot of them in Ghana, Sierra Leone, Cotonou, America and counting. We don’t have a stand in America but our clients are steadily growing through referrals and word of mouth to the extent that some families that buy our come for holiday here and stock up on our products, get home and their friends collect it from them. I have several instances where they call me saying “Kuddy they collected my lotions o”. Then I have to find a way to send another batch of products to them. Right now, we are thinking of having a store in the US where one of my daughters lives, so she can oversee the business and in touch with those areas that are uncovered. We are also doing very well on our online platforms. How has the social media impacted your business? Sincerely, it’s just like word-of-mouth, that’s where I say God comes in. We have not paid for any social media campaign. A son of mine came in from the United States three years ago, and he said: “Mum, you are not on Instagram”. He insisted we get on the platform right away and started it for us.  Before you know it, we were growing so fast. I don’t know how many thousands we are now, we are but I mean we are growing very fast. I know that with the social media if we have been serious, we would be bigger than this, but whatsoever the situation is, we are very grateful for where we are at the moment. What have been your biggest challenges so far? Challenges are all over and are expected of any business, so we don’t dwell on them. We have so many platforms, for instance, the Beauty West Africa exhibitions and more, helping to alleviate the challenges Nigerian entrepreneurs face so we don’t complain. I’m a distributor, I don’t know many companies in the USA, in Turkey, in Pakistan but these platforms like BWA has brought these people from all over here under one roof, giving everyone a fair chance at supply and demand on an international level. Yet these people are supplying to every other person but the truth of the matter is once the hand of God is upon anything you do, you will be preferred. Even among all these people that are saying they are competing with you, it is when they use your product that it works on them. We don’t lie to customers, we tell them this is how it is and this is what it is. Secrets of your success and the Kuddy Skin and Make-up line Passion is the main thing. Even if you have money, the money will just be sitting down there. They say faith without work is dead, if you have faith in anything, you must put it to work, and just allow God to do the rest. In my opinion, procrastination is a sin, make sure anything you want to do, you do it right away, you go for it. You don’t leave it. I’m sixty-something if I’m here at this age, and with about thirty-something years of experience working and manning my own stand, that’s because I still think there’s something inside of me I need to give out. I have about a hundred staff and I often tell them, “don’t come here to earn a salary, come here to learn. Whatever you take up from here, nobody can take it away from you. So, take your eyes away from salary and watch me.” I always tell them to do as I do, only a very few can have the audacity to say that because that means you must be doing the right thing all the time. What goes around comes around. When you are pushing others, someone will be there to push you. The Kuddy range of make-up and skincare line gained traction partly due to a young 21-old-girl who was a distributor of mine. I had decided to start my brand exclusive make-up line and produced a few, which didn’t sell as much because of the production cost which made the retail price a bit expensive for the average lady. The first time the young distributor saw the Kuddy eye-shadow she was almost in tears and said: “I am not more than 21years old, and I have been behind you saying that the passion this woman is using to sell other people’s products, let her use it for her own. Now I’m so happy, you said you have six colours, I’m going to help you sell the six colours. That and a couple of other incidents and support from our beloved customers kicked off sales and today we have a whole range of skin and make-up lines for every woman and man out there. We are so in high demand that it’s almost alarming despite the fact we don’t have billboards. I credit the success of the label to God and the fact that our products are not too expensive, and will not damage your skin. How skin friendly are your products? I prefer natural products. As you can see, my skin is beautiful, you don’t have to tell me, I know that I have a beautiful skin. It’s not that I’m doing anything extraordinary, I just make sure that I don’t tamper with my God-given complexion unduly. I always encourage people, if you are white, light-skinned, brown, reddish, whatever the colour, just maintain it. Give yourself a glowing skin by taking your vitamins, drink a lot of water, let go of the caffeine products, use your body oil, some will say that and keep your skin moisturised. Then be natural, the bleaching part of it we don’t do it in Kuddy cosmetics skincare range. I have a product that is NAFDAC registered, ‘Kuddy Radiant Carrot Lotion’, it has been on now for about five years and that’s what I use. So, I advise people, don’t use chemical, don’t damage your skin. It is the truth that it affects your kidney, your liver. We have open pores and oil, water comes out of this skin; if we have a situation where anything can come out it means something can go inside. So, whatever you are applying on your skin, make sure it is the right one because it will go inside. The Kuddy skincare range reflects my personal philosophy on skincare so they are very skin-friendly and non-damaging. What is your advice for young people? Just be yourself, don’t be like Kuddy, aim to be better than Kuddy. Don’t try to see anyone doing anything and you say you want to go after it either to kill it or fight it. There is space for you. There is a saying that goes like this “ the sun that comes out is enough to dry whatever manner of wet clothes”, so whatever it is you want to do, make sure you have interest in it. Even with all the money in the world, without interest, your business is doomed to fail. Some will say they can send their money on errands; no, you must be interested. Interest and passion is key to the sustenance of any business. So that is very important, you see anybody doing good, get inspired, create your own story and then build on it. In Kuddy, we are genuine and we are real.