Business stakeholders under Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) have called  for continued adoption of innovative ways in addressing legacy and emerging security issues. Speaking at the fourth edition of ‘Security meet Business’ organised by the LCCI, the president of the Chamber, Mrs. Toki Mabogunje said  business cannot thrive in environment that is unsafe or perceived as insecure, noting that security of life and property is a critical factor in the investment decisions. She noted further that “Our country continues to contend with intractable security challenges bothering on insurgency attacks by Boko Haram terrorists, killings by armed banditry, herdsmen/farmers clashes, religious and ethnic crisis, kidnapping for ransom, armed robbery and cultism. These security challenges are widespread and experienced in practically all geopolitical zones and regions in the country and the impact on economic activities has been negative and profound.” According to her, insecurity erodes business and investors’ confidence resulting in disruption of domestic supply chains and weakening of capital formation required to drive significant economic growth. She however said that “We acknowledged the efforts of the federal government to ensure adequate security for all and sundry but a lot more are still needed.” Responding to the business stakeholders, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha said that discussing the security situation in the country today is a herculean task. He noted that insecurity had its toll on economic activities as traders became circumspect in moving from one part of the country to another for their legitimate businesses. He added that “Agricultural production was affected as farmers could not plant, harvest and transport agricultural produce freely.  It also, took its toll on foreign investment, instilling fear in potential investors.  Private business concerns were affected especially, those that operated in shopping malls which were the target of the terrorists.  Construction work on roads, mass housing sites and other government contracts were stifled with attendant toll on job creation.” He however, stated that government, since the inception of this Administration, has put in place serious security measures which led to the reduction in the nefarious activities of the terrorists. He stated that “As insurgency, terrorism, banditry, among others linger, government has considered and still considering different approaches to frontally, and decisively deal with all forms of security challenges in the country with a view to enhancing our capabilities and capacities in Internal Security Management and Security Operations.” The commissioner of Police, Lagos state Command, CP Hakeem Odumosu urged Nigerians to be security conscious especially with their environment ranging from the people they employ to their neighbors. He urged Nigerians to do the right thing at the right time and not just criticising the security agencies, adding that all hands should be on deck and get involved. Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen Tukur Buratai in his address noted that for businesses to thrive, investors must be assured of the physical, socio, political, constitutional and legal security of their investments. He urged citizens and stakeholders of the business community to support the government and relevant security authorities to end security challenges in the nation.