Stakeholders in the nation’s logistics industry have commended INTELS Nigeria Limited, said to be the largest logistics company in the country, for operating a business model which has redefined how logistics business is done in Nigeria, in its over three decades of existence, writes YUSUF BABALOLA. The Nigerian logistics industry has not been the same right from when INTELS Nigeria Limited, set up more than 30 years ago to provide comprehensive integrated logistics services to the oil & gas industry and operating in prominent government-owned port facilities and free zones in Nigeria, came into existence. According to stakeholders, INTELS, by all means, is leading the Nigerian Oil & Gas logistic support industry as a core logistics services provider through its skill, efficiency, integrity and quality of service. The organisation has 30 years of experience in ports management and terminal logistic support services in shore bases across Nigeria, applying the “One Stop Shop” solution under its Oil Service Centre Concept. An oil and gas expert who is based in Port Harcourt, Williams Ukor, said that: ‘‘Through its well-structured services, INTELS has generated billions of dollars into government coffers and saved the country huge foreign exchange by providing services to oil majors that was hitherto not available in Nigeria. ‘‘The INTELS Public Private Partnership model is prototypical of what should obtain in Nigeria. Historically, since the company started business in Nigeria and became a concessionaire of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), it has diligently delivered on its obligations beyond expectations and without complaint from the government or users of the port. Rather, it has received commendation for its performance. Currently, no port in Nigeria can match the services rendered by INTELS at the Onne Oil & Gas Free Zone.’’ An oil and gas sector logistics expert, Charles Ilodibe, said there is a lot to explore from the innovations INTELS has introduced at Onne Port and at the Onne Oil and Gas Free Zone. He said: ‘‘Attempting to write about the magic INTELS has displayed in the management of Onne Port is to sign a contract for the publication of several editions of a book I would have titled “The INTELS Magic at Onne Port”. But for the constraints of space and time, I will only highlight a few of the many innovations. ‘‘My first stop on this ride is the 24-hour operation at Onne Port. Long before the Nigerian Ports Authority considered rendering 24 hours service at other ports, INTELS had started operating 24 hours in Onne with the introduction and institutionalisation of a “One Stop Shop” strategy to service clients maximally. The Onne Free Zone, which is located within the Onne Port Complex, being the largest Oil and Gas Free Zone in the world, operates a one stop shop solution that provides clients with all operational needs within the operational environment including office accommodation, hotel accommodation, catering etc. This is rooted in the philosophy that the current world thrives on efficiency more than mere effectiveness. It is no wonder that the Onne facility handles more cargoes every year than all the other eastern ports put together. ‘‘The storage facilities available in Onne allow companies, especially the International Oil Companies (IOCs), to invest in equipment for future projects, thereby saving cost. This is in addition to other facilities and incentives that have been provided to support oil and gas business in Nigeria. Furthermore, practically every activity in the port is technology-driven in order to ensure efficiency and state of the art service delivery. In another display of commitment to world class service delivery, INTELS recently acquired one of the largest port handling cranes in the world – a 600 tonnes Liebherr crane capable of lifting cargoes as heavy as 208 tonnes with a 17-metre boom outreach – to increase its efficiency in cargo handling and stay ahead in the business.’’ According to INTELS Nigeria Limited, the crane, acquired at a princely sum of USD6 million (N1.83 billion), is the largest at any port facility in Africa. Sitting on 104 tyres, it is capable of lifting cargoes as heavy as 208 tonnes with a 17-metre boom outreach. The company said in a statement that: ‘‘Onne Port and Onne Oil and Gas Free Zone are also the safest of such facilities in Nigeria. The level of investment in security at the port is exceptional. The Naval command at the port is adequately equipped to prevent and/or respond swiftly to any form of security breach. This is in addition to technological installations aimed at ensuring the security of lives and investments. ‘‘These distinctive attributes of the Onne Port sets it apart from other ports in the country, and should naturally elicit positive reactions from all Nigerians. We should take pride in the fact that we have a working project of this nature in our country and see to it that the investor that made it happen is well-guarded and protected for the benefit of all.’’ Stakeholders said that Onne Port and Onne Oil and Gas Free Zone have become the reference point in port and free zones operation in the country due to its astute management by the concessionaire, INTELS Nigeria Limited, over the years. This success can be extended to other ports in the country in order to reinvigorate our maritime exploits as a nation. According to them, INTELS has shown that Nigerian ports can be managed commendably. A port user in Onne, Emeke Ikechukwu, said: ‘‘What INTELS has done in Onne is to raise the standard for port management and prove that Public-Private-Partnership in the management of port facilities is a mutually beneficial endeavour. By operating in a government owned port facility and Free Zone housing over 170 other companies, INTELS has continued to provide top-notch integrated services to the oil and gas industry and other patrons of the facilities. The company has developed the zone to become a foremost oil service centre for onshore and offshore operations while providing the West African and greater sub-Saharan oil and gas industry easy access and duty-free distribution facilities. No wonder, every individual that has visited Onne is quick to commend INTELS for its world-class service delivery. ‘‘What we need now as a nation is the collective resolve to make every aspect of our economy work. Some of our ports need revamping; they need to go through technological and innovative makeover to make them attractive. As we work on reviving the waning ports, we must jointly protect the integrity of the viable ones.’’ INTELS has also been exceptional in its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, touching the lives of its host communities and ordinary Nigerians in exceptional ways. Being a result oriented company that would rather expend resources on executing beneficial and life changing projects, not many would read about INTELS CSR initiatives in a newspaper or come across it so often in any other media as some other companies would have done. Nevertheless, the verifiable achievements in various communities in the Niger Delta point to the fact that INTELS has displayed a superior CSR philosophy that should be emulated by other companies. INTELS’ adopts an Integrated Partnership Approach (IPA) to CSR, which is predicated on three objectives. First is to empower the indigenes of host communities, in a sustainable way, through the provision of employment and improved welfare. The second objective is to plan and execute integrated community development programmes with full community input and participation. The third objective is adoption of best practices that guarantee community friendly relationship. In order to function properly, the model categorises stakeholders into three: company, government, and communities. Each of these stakeholders has respective roles and expectations in the overall success of the IPA. This helps the communities to have a clear understanding of what is expected of them and what to expect from the company. The company said that one of the major benefits of the IPA is the opportunity it provides for communities to determine and own projects executed. Unlike other linear CSR practices that allow the company to decide a project for the community, which may turn out irrelevant and unappreciated, the IPA allows communities to decide what will deliver the maximum benefits for the people. In order to provide a fair understanding of the success of the INTELS’ IPA, I will provide an assessment based on the three thematic areas of the philosophy as earlier outlined. In empowerment of indigenes of host communities, INTELS probably holds the award for the best performing company in local content compliance. Over 40% of all the employees in INTELS are from Rivers State, which hosts the headquarters of the company; and over 60% of all employees of the company are from the Niger Delta, which has contributed immensely to the development of the various communities. In this regard, the king of Onne, His Royal Highness Hon. (Dr.) J.D Osaronu, in a letter to INTELS, commended the company for developing the community into a metropolis. In another instance, he further declared that the community told their young men and women to utilise their earnings from INTELS in a judicious manner that supports the development of the community. And as a result, many of the indigenes of the host communities have built houses and initiated viable businesses through the income they earn from INTELS Nigeria Limited. In the area of project execution, INTELS has delivered top quality projects in communities where it operates. Projects are agreed and selected based on their ability to offer immediate and long-term benefits, provide collective benefit for the whole community rather than few individuals; and possess a multiplier effect on the community and its economy. Likewise, the sustainability of a project is also a major consideration. The company’s CSR philosophy discourages execution of projects that will be difficult to sustain years down the line, and eventually become useless to the community. Some projects that have been executed by INTELS in various communities across three States in Niger Delta include the construction of primary and secondary school blocks, provision of befitting civic centres, town halls and palaces; and construction of road and drainage projects. Other projects are water boreholes, ultra-modern markets, provision of electricity transformers and generators, and the construction of public conveniences to support hygiene in the communities. In response to the healthcare challenges of the communities, INTELS in partnership with Rivers State introduced the Mobile Clinic, which is designed to take healthcare services to the people’s doorsteps. By 2013 alone, after four years of its establishment, the Mobile Clinic had provided consultations for over 70,000 individuals across Niger-Delta communities. INTELS has also instituted the popular Women Empowerment Programme Scheme Synergy (WEPSS). Established in 2013, WEPSS was set up by INTELS to train Nigerian women in fashion design and tailoring. Since inception six years ago, no fewer than 1,300 women drawn from various communities across the country have graduated from the programme. Many of the stakeholders said that indeed, INTELS has shown to that PPP in port management can work.