Drastic measures have been taken by the National Economic Council (NEC) to avert the drift in the power sector and the exploitation of Nigerians by the 11 electricity distribution companies (DisCos) in Nigeria. After an extensive review of the activities of the power firms and the growing complaints of the citizens on the companies’ epileptic services, NEC directed an immediate forensic audit on them. NEC, which is chaired by the vice president, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, comprises state governors and top officials of the federal government. After the council’s meeting at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, yesterday, the deputy governor of Edo State, Phillip Shuaibu, told State House correspondents that state governors were asked to provide details of their investments in the DisCos. The NEC action came two days after the Nigeria Electricity Distribution Company (NERC) put on hold the hike in electricity tariff slated for April 1, 2020. The commission gave the DisCos two years to complete the metering of their customers before considering any increase in electricity charges. NERC accused the DisCos of frustrating its efforts at ensuring that electricity consumers were metered to end the current regime of estimated billing. According to Shuaibu, “NEC also receives an update on the review of the status of ownership structure of electricity power distributing companies. The Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai briefed NEC on the progress made and the responses so far received from the general public. “He (el-Rufai) also told NEC that there will be a forensic audit of all bank accounts of the DisCos and that state governments will provide the details of their investment in the DisCos. The committee also sought the approval of NEC for another two months to complete its report,” Shuaibu said. Similalrly, Ebonyi State governor, Dave Umahi, said that the performance of the DisCos was appaling. He said: “Of course, nobody is happy with the DisCos’ performance and we have a committee chaired by the governor of Kaduna State and they have done a very beautiful job. “They have placed advertisements in about five newspapers and have asked the general public to give them information on the performance of these DisCos’ and the investments made by private individuals and other stakeholders. “The governors are requested to before the end of March to submit all their investments from 2013 to date in the DisCos, so that we will get it all together. “I think the federal government is trying to take the bull by the horn by trying to find out the level of investments theDisCos made towards this privatisation. The first suspicion is that they have made no substantial investment and we will take care of that when we get all the solutions,” Umahi said. The governor also explained why the Excess Crude Account (ECA) dropped from $325 million to $71 million. He dismissed insinuations in some quarters that the governors were protesting the sudden drop in the ECA. Governor Umahi said that $250 million was an agreed investment by the governors and federal government on the National Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA). He stated “on the question of ECA $325 million depletin to $71 million and what happens to the $254 million, I will combine it with the question that governors were protesting the depletion and that they were not consulted. “First, it is not true. $250 million was an agreed investment by governors and federal government on NSIA – National Sovereign Investment Authority and they are doing very well. “They are handling our infrastructure so nicely that it was further agreed that we should reinvest into it. When these investments are made, the federal, state and local governments all get their investment certificates. So, we are together in this. “You also asked where is the other $4 million; it was used in paying consultancy fees and for other services that would have caused the fund about $500 million, it was renegotiated to $4 million because, some people went to court over certain transactions in the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and so the federal government had to engage a consultant to handle that. “We would have paid the consultant five per cent of the cost that they were seeking and it would have translated to $500 million. So, if you add $250 million to $4 million, you will get $254 million and if you add $71 million, you will have $325 million. We are back to where we were; so no money is missing,” Umahi clarified. On the budget support to the states, the governor said that NEC was informed that during the months of January and February 2020, deductions were made from the statutory allocations of the affected states. On how much was deducted and what was left, he said that “I’m not sure Lagos State took any budget support facility but each state is renegotiating and every month we are now paying N152 million towards that.” …Approves Nasarawa, Adamawa, Plateau Livestock Transformation Plan Meanwhile, NEC has approved Adamawa, Plateau and Nasarawa States’ detailed plans for the 80 per cent funding of the total cost of the federal government’s National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP). Governor Umahi said that the NLTP emerged from an extensive process involving engagements with stakeholders and detailed analysis of opinions, adding that after the initial decisions were made by the state governors, the focus of the initiative shifted to the implementation stage. He listed the outline of the established engagements process as letter of intent and counterpart funding, state livestock transformation office, and community engagement. Umahi said: “Preliminary analysis of survey results, which includes data capturing analysis and the enumerated data of five gazetted grazing reserves in Adamawa State. “We also have two gazetted reserves data in Plateau and Nasarawa States. We have four gazetted reserves, so the data are being collected and analysed. “We had prayers to the council, one of which was that it should consider and approve that the three states should submit their detailed plans for the 80 per cent funding of the total cost by the federal government, as stipulated in the National Livestock Transformation Plan and of course, the states that are participating will have to pay 20 per cent counterpart funding. “The second prayer was that these states should commit five per cent of funding to support the work of the secretariat in line with the National Livestock Transformation Plan’s policy. The vouncil approved the two prayers,” the governor said. On insecurity, Umahi said that “it is not discussed on the pages of newspapers and if there is anything the governors have done, is to brainstorm with the security agencies and the federal government on this issue of security in various places in the country. “When people continue to mention regional security, as the chairman of the Southeast Governors Forum, I said there will be nothing like regional security but there can be something like regional cooperation, state cooperation because security is state based. “I watched the Lagos State governor saying that Amotekun law is state based because when you talk of regional security, you are saying something higher than state police. You are looking at one central command, one law, one office and one command and there can’t be anything like that with the present constitution and every governor swore to uphold the tenets of the constitution. “I think the governors are doing quite a lot, we have in our various states private security outfits, being it in herdsmen, kidnapping and so on and so forth. I think the governors are rising to the challenges of insecurity in the country,” he added. In his briefing, Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said that NEC was briefed about the status of COVID-19 which is the coronavirus worldwide disease by the minister of health and others. As of February 25, he said that “we have worldwide confirmed over 80,239 cases, we have over 2,700 deaths worldwide. In Africa, it has been confirmed that only Egypt and Algeria that have confirmed cases but we have seen a transition in countries outside of China – Italy, South Korea, and a few other countries. “In Nigeria, the good news is, yes, there have been a total of 11 suspected cases but all of them have turned out to be negative. In fact, there was a scare in Lagos yesterday, about two cases but all have been confirmed negative as we speak. “But Nigeria still places itself on high risk, as also advised by the World Health Organisation (WHO). So, the federal and all the states are looking at all the international airports that we have as major entry points: Abuja, Kano, Lagos, Enugu and Port Harcourt; they continued to be a major source of external in-road to the country.” While noting that the alertness in each of the airports was very high, Sanwo-Olu added that “we also have testing facilities and are ready at the NCDC laboratories in Abuja, LUTH in Lagos, in Edo State and also the University of Osun, all have been activated and all state governments have been told to have a level of preparedness. “The minister told us what they are doing in terms of public sensitization and they are also ensuring that there is an enhanced screening, especially at the ports of entry. “We are strengthening the deployment of digital screening, when visitors are coming in sometimes they won’t even know that cameras are on them and are taking pictures, they have all of them been installed at the airports that I mentioned,” he said. On Lassa fever, the governor said that “we were also given an update around the last fever that we have in the country. In the last one month, we have about 103 cases nationwide and we recorded 13 deaths and they are in 18 states: Edo, Ebonyi, Bauchi, Plateau, Enugu, Gombe, Katsina, Kogi, Sokoto, Taraba, Delta, Rivers, Adamawa, Nasarawa and Lagos. “Of all these confirmed cases, about 72 per cent of them are prevalent in Edo, Ondo and Ebonyi States. So, the ministry of health and the federal government are concentrating on these three major states.” Giving an update on polio eradication and improving routine immunisation in Nigeria, he said that “the good news is that by June 21, 2020, there is going to be a continental declaration of polio-free, meaning that Africa will be declared polio-free by on that date.”