Walking into the Hair Station by Anirah is entering into a world of unlimited possibilities. Assorted hair extensions, wigs, accessories, products and tools, greet the visual senses and one can’t help but feel the need to relax, in the luxe ambience and let the pretty attendants take care of all your hair needs. Speaking with the gorgeous enterprising CEO NKECHI ARAH,  a Business Administration graduate of Babcock University, Ogun State Nigeria, it became obvious that the young entrepreneur aims to always deliver satisfactory solutions to the needs of clients while building value was no impossible feat set by a novice. In this chat with MILLICENT AREBUN ONUOHA, she speaks on her passions for quality hair, drives, business, ambitions, and quick tips on how to select wear and care for weaves and wigs Formal Training and Inspiration. I have always been very particular and passionate about hair for as long as I can remember. Be it natural or extensions, whenever I see anyone with good hair, I always want to feel it, touch it and know the texture. I thought to myself; why not turn your passion into a profession? I don’t have any formal training yet but personally, I’ve gotten the basic training in fixing, dying, treatment of hair et al.  Development/Manufacture Anirah is a lifestyle brand and a part of the business line called Anirah. We’re not just restricted to hair but the first product of Anirah is the hair station. Our products are branded and sourced from different parts of the world.  Many ladies spend a lot of money to get hair extensions without getting the desired looks. There are lots of hair extensions out there but just a few of them are designed to enhance the overall looks of their wearers. It is not just about selling hair but the drive behind this business idea is making our customers look and feel good about their hair. At Anirah the objective is to provide hairs that can withstand rain and the harsh conditions of our weather.  Our hair comes in different textures, colour patent, and weft. Our hair extensions come in three categories and collections, namely; the everyday woman, exquisite and luxury collections. Each of these has different hair types, texture and price attributed to it.  Synthetic fibres and human hair extensions: The Difference. The major difference is that one is made from human hair while the other is made from synthetic fibres. With the latest improvement in manufacturing methods of synthetic hairs, there are quality synthetic hairs that look and feel almost like real hair. However, human hair extensions and wigs are real human hair. Remy hair is an example of the finest among them. It possesses a cuticle layer, which is the outermost part of the hair strand. All Remy’s hair has the cuticle layer of the hair flowing in the same direction, the way it should naturally. The cuticle layer is important when considering hair tangling, the longevity of use and how well the hair shines. When the cuticle layer is intact and laying down flat, the hair is capable of reflecting light, making the hair shine.  Hair care Tips/Tricks Your extensions are like your natural hair, you must take care of it. Women need to know that the same way they take care of their natural hair, is the same treatment their weaves require. Always treat, condition and roll your hair extensions before re-fixing or when you change your hairstyle. secondly, to revitalize your weaves, it is not advisable to re-use them without washing. This is because weaves attract lots of dirt including the oil from the scalp. my final tip is to brush from the tip to the root of the hair to ensure the hair strands are not tangled.  Affordability /Unique selling point in the largely competitive Nigerian hair market Quality consumer services and honesty is our strategic advantage in the business. In Nigeria we have noticed that premium customer service and honesty is rare. At Anirah, we are very passionate about our clients. We pride ourselves on ensuring our customers have great shopping and product experience. We also place great emphasis on customer service, client and product follow up, give hair advice, and treatments. All our hair extensions and products are very affordable. You can find great hair for an average price range of ten to sixty thousand Naira and more.  Delivery/Shipping Options Anirah delivers worldwide with varying delivery cost depending on the country and courier service.  We also have Anirah loyalty reward system, which ensures consumers earn points for every purchase or referrals.  Everywoman can shop Anirah hair products by visiting our work station or from the convenience of your home by logging on to our website and also for great tips and trick on hair extensions care and maintenance. 