On all fronts, cancer patients in Nigeria are embattled. From access to treatment centres, equipment and to personnel, they have tales of woes to tell. In separate interviews with LEADERSHIP on the occasion of World Cancer Day today, the Nigerians suffering from the disease, said that apart from the dearth of equipment, specialised medical personnel and huge cost, there were only a few functioning health institutions to attend to them. They lamented that even though cancer is treatable, especially when diagnosed at the early stage, many Nigerians with the disease still die due to the dearth of facilities, experts and high cost of treatment. It was learnt that there are only seven cancer centres with functional machines, both public and private, in the country as against a minimum of 200 cancer centres or 600 units of radiotherapy machines that Nigeria is expected to have to meet the World Health Organisation (WHO) standard. WHO said that cancer is one of the leading causes of death globally and accounted for 8.8 million deaths in 2015. An estimated 116,000 new cases of cancer and 41,000 cancer-related deaths, the world body said were recorded in Nigeria in 2018 alone. World Cancer Day is an international event observed every February 4 to raise awareness on the disease and to encourage its prevention, detection and treatment. Stakeholders insisted that inadequate experts, radiotherapy machines and high cost of treatment have remained a burden to health workers, cancer patients and their families. They attributed the high mortality rate from cancer in Nigeria to the above listed factors. They stressed that the situation was compounded by the fact that less 100 oncologists operate in all the centres in the country. However, some cancer patients at the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) and Lagos University Teaching Hospital (NSIA-LUTH) told LEADERSHIP that though they were getting standard treatment as they were seeing improvement, access to money or somebody to sponsor their treatment was a major problem to them. One of them, Mrs Helen Isaika, said: “I can tell you that cancer is not a death sentence, but it is the money that is killing us.  A lot of people actually know when the cancer starts, but due to financial constraint, they will rather resort to herbal medication or going to prayer homes. “Imagine spending N100,000 every three weeks for a whole year; it is a huge burden on families and patience, some people even end dying from depression. I appeal to government and international donors to help us. The people living with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) are surviving because of the free treatment they enjoy. Cancer is not a death sentence; if we have subsidised treatment, majority of us will survive,” she said. Cancer is a generic term for a large group of diseases characterised by the growth of abnormal cells beyond their usual boundaries that can then invade adjoining parts of the body or spread to other organs. The disease, according to experts, can affect almost every part of the body and has many anatomic and molecular subtypes that each requires specific management strategies. The most common cancers are breast cancer, lung and bronchus cancer, prostate cancer, colon and rectum cancer, melanoma of the skin, bladder cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, kidney and renal pelvis cancer, endometrial cancer, leukemia, pancreatic cancer, thyroid cancer, and liver cancer, cervical cancer, among others. On the admission of cancer patients, the chief medical director, National Hospital Abuja (NHA), Dr. Jaf Momoh, said that only 25 per cent of cancer patients seeking admission in the hospital do not get the service due to lack of space. He, however, stated that the federal government was working on the expansion of the hospital to enable the management accommodate more patients. The head of department of radiotherapy, LUTH, Dr. M.Y.M. Habeebu, told LEADERSHIP that only about three radiotherapy machines in public facilities are functional at the moment. Habeebu lamented that Nigeria currently has about 65 clinical oncologists instead of 500 that the country requires. It will be recalled that the United States (US) Embassy in partnership with Project PINK BLUE, carried out medical training for 44 Nigerian clinical oncologists from August 13-25, 2018, in Abuja. The training, which was part of the upgrade oncology initiative, had focused on strengthening oncology education, curricula, and cancer treatment in Nigeria. As part of activities to mark this year’s World Cancer Day, Project Pink Blue has carried out a walk tagged „Walk against cancer“ in Abuja. The yearly activity is designed by the group to create awareness on cancer. The organisation used the event to provide free medical services such as screening for breast, cervical, prostate cancer, blood sugar and hepatitis B tests. At the event, the group’s acting executive director, Emeka Nwagbowo, said that cancer is one of such diseases which many Nigerians finds difficult to manage. Aside the fact that many of the associated ailments are diagnosed late, Nwagbowo said that most of those diagnosed do not have the financial wherewithal to complete their treatment. He lamented that the cost of treatment remained high and had been identified as one of the reasons most patients on treatment in Nigeria die from the disease. He said: “Cancer is not a life-sentence; most people are scared of going for screening because they are afraid of the results. They believe the next thing that is going to happen with cancer diagnosis is death, but that is not always the case. “Also, most of the people who have been diagnosed with the disease in the country are also having a hard time finishing their therapy. The cost of treatment is high and most people cannot afford it. We need the intervention of the government and well-meaning Nigerians to help make treatment accessible and affordable to those who need it,” he said. Relatedly, a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ossai Ossai, called on Nigerians to always check their health status at least yearly. Ossai, who also participated in the walk, said that cancer had become a menace in the country, adding that it is time for the government and everyone to take it as a serious issue. He said that Nigeria needs to have data on the cases reported as “this is the only way in which the government can effectively plan.” The lawmaker thanked Project Pink Blue and all the supporting partners for the advocacy walk and raising awareness on the diseases. Ossai, who is currently sponsoring a cancer bill in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly, said that he understands the problems encountered by patients when seeking treatment for the disease and that is why he is pushing for a legal framework for the government to capture cancer cases and treatments in the country. He said: “I believe that with a legal framework, international organisations will be supporting this country through this channel in order to eradicate cancer. The bill is a way of Nigeria keeping data through the cancer centres about the type of cancers common in the country and this can assist the government to make policies to fund those areas. “I believe that when scientists look at records and the types of cancer that are ravaging our country, we will be able to find a solution because you need to have data before you can create a policy, and that is what we are trying to do,” he said. Recently, the federal government launched a partnership programme to deliver lifesaving chemotherapies for cancer treatment in seven teaching hospitals across the country. During the launch of the programme at the National Hospital, the minister of state for health, Dr. Adeleke Mamora, said that as a result of the partnership, Nigerians are expected to save up to 50 per cent of their treatment costs, thereby enabling thousands of additional patients to access care. The partnership involves the Federal Ministry of Health, the Clinton Health Access Initiative Inc (CHAI), the American Cancer Society (ACS), Pfizer Inc, Worldwide Healthcare, and EMGE Resources Limited. The participating hospitals are Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, LUTH, the National Hospital Abuja, Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, University College Hospital, Ibadan, and University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital,  Enugu. Mamora said that the programme would enable Nigerians with cancer to access lower-priced, high-quality treatment at hospital pharmacies, noting that the medications under the programme were of same quality as those that would be received by patients in the developed countries. The minister said: „What we started as a dream in 2017 on paper has come to reality today. Today, we launch a pioneering programme to save our people from what is becoming a global epidemic. Today. we launch the Chemotherapy Access Partnership in Nigeria to improve access to affordable and quality chemotherapy medicines.“ Also, the executive secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof. Mohammed Sambo, recently, said that some levels of cancer surgeries and chemotherapy were covered under the scheme. He stated that the NHIS would continue to explore ways of working with public-spirited organisations and individuals to increase support for cancer patients.