Protesters yesterday unleashed terror on residents of Bayelsa State as they set ablaze public and private property to register their anger against the Supreme Court nullification of the election of David Lyon as governor on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The apex court, in its judgement on Thursday, ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declare the next candidate, who scored the highest cotes as the governor of the state. Consequently, INEC yesterday presented Senator Douye Diri, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate with a certificate of return, and was accordingly sworn in as the governor of Bayels. Before his inauguration, youths suspected to APC supporters stormed the streets of Yenaogoa, the state capital and unleashed mayhem on the people. The protesters, who struck early in the morning, attacked and looted property in the homes of the new governor, his predecessor, Seriake Dickson, and some PDP chieftains The hoodlums, comprising mainly women and youths carried placards and chantied “No David Lyon, No Bayelsa.” They headed straight for the residence of Governor Diri along the Imgbi Road in the state capital and the Opolo home of Dickson where they carted away valuables. Three of the attackers were however arrested by policemen deployed in the area. The mob also attacked a public library built by Hon. Steve Azaiki, a member of the Federal House of Representatives before proceeding to the state secretariat of the PDP along the DSP Alameiseigha Way and set ablaze the security section and generating set house. The complex of the Bayelsa State Broadcasting Corporation owners of the Radio Bayelsa was not spared by the attackers who destroyed over 15 vehicles owned by the station and members of staff. The protesting youths also carted away some Televisions sets, mobile phones and other valuables belonging to the workers. They barricaded the major streets in Yenagoa as well as the East-West Road at the Kaiama axis in Kolokuma-Opokuma local government area was.The protesters stopped vehicular movement which made travellers stranded, set bonfires on the major road as they insisted that Lyon must be sworn in as the governor of the state. A combined team of military and police detachment later took over strategic pots to restore peace in the state.  Police Impose Dusk To Dawn Curfew Meanwhile, the police authorities have imposed a dusk to dawn curfew to check the escalation of the violence. The state commissioner of police, Mr Uche Anozie, in the company of other security heads in the state, told newsmen in Yenagoa that the curfew took effect from yesterday and would end tomorrow. He said that eight suspects had been arrested in connection with the violent protest which led to the destruction of public and private property in the state. Anozie said: “Following the Thursday’s pronouncement by the Supreme Court on the Bayelsa governorship election, some angry protesters stormed the streets of Yenagoa and destroyed the property of innocent citizens; we have arrested eight suspects in connection with the violence. “To forestall the escalation of the protest, we have imposed a dusk to dawn curfew in all the eight local government areas of Bayelsa State from 8pm to 6am. We urge the residents to remain calm as security operatives are on top of the situation,” he said. At the time of filing this report yesterday, normalcy had returned to the state, which led to the successful inauguration of Diri and his deputy, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo.  The residents, however, remained indoors Before the event, INEC had presented the certificate of return to Diri and Ewhrudjakpo as they were declared governor-elect and deputy governor-elect by the INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu. Yakubu said that INEC had received the Supreme Court judgement which disqualified the deputy governorship and vitiated the joint ticket of the APC which was earlier declared the winner of the election. Yakubu said: “We reviewed the result of the election in which 45 political parties contested. The total number of votes now stands at 146,999. “Of the figure, the PDP candidate scored the highest number of votes with 143,172. The party also scored more than the 25 per cent in all the local government areas. Consequently, Senator Douye Diri and Senator Lawrence Ewhrujakpo of the PDP are hereby declared winners and returned elected as governor and deputy governor of Bayelsa State, respectively. “The commission has received the certified true copy (CTC) of the judgement of the apex court which disqualified the deputy governorship candidate and vitiated the joint ticket of the party earlier declared winner in the election. The court also ordered the commission to “…declare as winner of the governorship election in Bayelsa State the candidate with the highest number of lawful votes cast with the requisite constitutional (or geographical spread). “In compliance with the orders of the Supreme Court, the commission met this morning (Friday) and reviewed the result of the election in which 45 political parties contested. “Without the votes scored by the APC, whose candidates were deemed not to have participated in the election, the total number of lawful and valid votes cast in the election now stands at 146,999. Of this figure, the candidate of the PDP scored the highest number of lawful votes with 143,172. Similarly, the party has scored more than 25 per cent of the lawful votes cast in all the eight local government areas of the state,” Yakubu said. “Furthermore, the total number of registered voters in places where election was not held or cancelled as a result of sundry violations is 90,822. The candidate of the Accord Party has the next highest score with 1,339 votes. The margin of lead between the candidates of the PDP and the Accord Party is 141,833 votes. With this outcome, the election is conclusive at first ballot.” “Consequently, Senator Douye Diri and Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo of the PDP are hereby declared winners and returned elected as governor and deputy governor of Bayelsa State, respectively,” he said. The certificate of return was presented to them by the INEC national commissioner in charge of the region, Mary Abamuche Nbu.  I Will Embark On Reconciliation – Gov Diri Shortly after he received the certificate of return, Diri said that he would embark on a reconciliation process to heal the wounds inflicted on the people by the outcome of the polls. He said: “I want to express my gratitude to the creator, God Almighty who has made today possible. I want to appreciate the (INEC) chairman, Commissioners and all others staffers of the INEC. I will not forget those who God has used for us to be here, the judiciary which is the last hope of the common man. “We pray and hope that God will heal our land, Bayelsa State; God will heal Nigeria. For us, God has taken us through a winding road and it has taught us lessons of reconciliation and of love. Also, after his low key inauguration inside the Government House by the state chief judge, Justice Kate Abiri, Governor Diri described his ascension to power as the hand work of God and urged PDP members to be magnanimous in victory. He said: “I and my deputy bring hope and prosperity to Bayelsa State that is why we urge Bayelsans to learn to live in peace with one another; we come to serve the people of this great state, and serve as the instrument of peace. “It’s a day that God has made and it is marvellous in our eyes. My dear people of Bayelsa State, this is a state that we all wanted to create, as a serving member of Ijaw National Congress (INC), we traversed the length and breadth of Nigeria and all of us wanting to create a state that can develop our region and our area. Today, we have a state and we must develop it “As we have been sworn in today as the governor and deputy, my advice to our party, the PDP, is that we have to be magnanimous in victory; the bitterness, the acrimony, if we kill ourselves, who are we going to lead, that is why we bring the message of love to Bayelsa State, we must eschew bitterness and acrimony and learn to love ourselves. “Whether from the same party or a different party, primarily, we are brothers and sisters from the same state; our creed is to serve Bayelsa people and bring prosperity to the state,” he said. The ceremony was attended by the governors of Oyo and Bauchi States, Seyi Makinde and Bala Mohammed, respectively. Some members of the National Assembly within and outside the state also attended the event. The national leadership of the PDP charged Diri to be a good ambassador of the party in the state, stressing that service to the people should be uppermost in his mind. The PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, asked him to commence a genuine reconciliation of all Bayelsans particularly PDP members. Secondus said that for Diri to achieve genuine reconciliation, he must establish a Truth and Reconciliation Committee, adding that he should declare “no victor nor vanquish” in the state.  Jonathan Congratulates Gov Diri Also yesterday, former President Goodluck Jonathan congratulated Diri and advised him to build bridges of unity among the people of the state. Jonathan, in his congratulatory message, said that building bridges of unity by entrenching a culture of love, fairness and justice in the polity were imperative in the state. He said: “As governor, the responsibility of building hope and sustaining peace across the state now lies on your shoulders. I urge you to always bear in mind that you are the governor of all Bayelsans and to seize this moment of glory to build bridges of unity by entrenching a culture of love, fairness and justice in our polity.”  Sylva, Oshiomhole Responsible For Faulty Selection Of Flag Bearers – Kpodoh However, a former chief security adviser to the state government, Chief Perekeme Kpodoh, has slammed the minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva and the national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomole, over the Supreme Court sacking of Chief David Lyon as governor-elect in the state. Kpodoh said that the duo should be held responsible and sanctioned for the shoddy selection of the APC flag bearers for the state governorship election. Kpodoh, who is also an APC chieftain, told newsmen in Yenagoa, that the divide and rule and wrongful actions of Sylva and Oshiomhole cost the state chapter of the party the victory handed to it by the majority of Bayelsa voters. According to Kpodoh, “because he has deceived everybody within the party, both in the state and national level, the verdict from the Supreme Court has brought the party and President Muhammadu Buhari to disrepute. “In the last few years, Chief Timipre Sylva has created enmity among the party structure. All the people that started this race have been sidelined. He brought new people; he brought a man with fake certificates. “Because of what these people have done, Oshiomhole should now know that when we are talking, they should listen to us. These are the things we have been talking about Sylva,” he said.