There was a mild drama at the Sapele Central Hospital in Delta State at the weekend when a man reportedly attacked medical workers and, in the process, stabbed one of the nurses on duty over the death of his son who was brought to the hospital for medication. LEADERSHIP gathered that the man went berserk minutes after medical workers broke the news of his son’s death hours after he was rushed to the hospital for medical attention. The man, whose identity could not be verified at the time of filing this report was alleged to have accused the doctors and nurses on duty of negligence and responsible for the death of the child and subsequently vowed that one of them must die with his son. It was further learnt that the middle-age bereaved father attempted to stab the nurse on her throat but the nurse was able to dodge the object he was holding thereby stabbing her on her ear, just as the suspect was also accused of headbutting and thoroughly beating the nurse. The suspect was alleged to have also chased one of the doctors on duty in an attempt to stab him but the doctor was able to escape. According to a source, “It was a case of a baby that was brought in with a deteriorating health condition. The Intensive Care Unit resuscitated the baby and he was admitted into the children ward”. “Being that the condition was already very bad, may be the father of the baby was expecting a miraculous recovery of the child but the condition deteriorated further and they lost the baby. The father of the baby became angry that the doctors and nurses could not save the life of his son. It’s a one-year-six-month-old baby. To that end, he threatened that anybody that he sees will die with the child.  So, he saw one of the nurses inside the ward and attacked her”. “He first of all gave the nurse a headbutt and the lady nurse fell on the ground. He started beating her until he brought out an object attempting to stab the nurse on the neck but the lady was able to dodge it and the object landed on the ear and almost cut off the ear”. “On sighting a doctor duty; he went after the doctor after injuring the nurse. He chased the doctor with a broken bottle. The doctor through the help of crowd that rushed to the scene was able to escape unhurt”. “When people were shouting over the incident, he quickly rushed back to the children’s ward and fled with the corpse of the baby. The National Association of Nurses and Midwifery (NANM), the management of Central Hospital Sapele and the Nigeria Medical Association took the matter to the police station”, the source recounted. The suspect was however arrested by the police operatives from Sapele Area Command. When contacted, the State Police spokesperson, DSP Onome Onowakpoyeya, confirmed the arrest of the suspect to newsmen. She, however, added that she was not sure of the degrees of injury the suspect had inflicted on the nurse saying that, “The man lost his child and went wild and assaulted the nurse. He escaped with the corpse of the baby but was later arrested. But the nature of the injury I do not know.” When also contacted, the medical director of Central Hospital Sapele, Dr. Benedict Ogbimi, confirmed the incident, saying that the man has been arrested and will be charged to court over the incident.