Recently, the Senate passed the Sexual Harassment Prohibition Bill for second reading. In this report, HENRY TYOHEMBA aggregates stakeholders’ positions on the proposed law. The issue of sexual harassment across tertiary schools in Nigeria demands immediate resolution. And the Senate current consideration of the bill which stipulates 14 years and not less than five years imprisonment without an option of a fine for offenders in tertiary institutions of learning is in the right direction, some stakeholders have said. But others have described as unwarranted and a duplication of existing laws on the matter. The bill seeks to address other forms of sexual harassment including grabbing, hugging, kissing, rubbing, stroking, touching, pinching the breasts or hair or lips or hips or buttocks or any other sensual part of the body of a student; or sending by hand or courier or electronic or any other means naked or sexually explicit pictures or videos or sex-related objects to a student, and whistling or winking at a student or screaming, exclaiming, joking or making sexually complimentary or uncomplimentary remarks about a student’s physique or stalking. This is just the latest in a number of attempts to address the issue of sexual harassment in the country’s tertiary institutions as the 8th Senate under the leadership of Senator Bukola Saraki had earlier in 2016 passed the Sexual Harassment in Tertiary Education Institution Prohibition Bill but the lawmakers at the lower chamber had opined that the bill did not take care of other spheres of the society like work place, religious institutions, among others. However, each day without action means the trail will continue to grow older, more women will potentially be at risk of being victimised hence the urgent need for the speedy passage of the bill in order to leap-frog over what has been one of the major disturbing issues in tertiary institutions once and for all. Due to recent events in some institutions pertaining to sexual harassment, the Senate in 2019 re-introduced the bill on sexual harassment, sponsored by the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, and 106 senators. The re-introduction of the bill which came after a British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) documentary which exposed two lecturers of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) and a lecturer at the University of Ghana for sexual harassment had sparked reactions from Nigerians who described the issue as a norm in Nigerian universities. Even though the Sexual Harassment Prohibition Bill has passed second reading at the Senate, it is imperative to work towards passing it into law because of the rising cases of sex-for-mark and other forms of sexual issues in tertiary institutions. During a recent function in Abuja, some stakeholders believed that signing the bill into law would be the most feasible option to curtail the vice. At the event, the United Nations Women representative in Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Comfort Lamptey, urged Nigerian journalists and civil society groups to mobilise support for the bill to be passed. Lamptey, who was represented by the UN communication analyst, Mercedes Alfa, called for more actions against ending violence on women and girls, stating that at UN Women, “it is a key priority area.” She said: “Women and girls are disproportionately subjected to violence, including femicide, sexual violence, intimate partner violence, trafficking and harmful practices.  The major hindrances to understanding the scale of this problem include weak structures for reporting sexual harassment and violence in the universities.” Lamptey added that the likes of Ms Kiki Mordi, a BBC journalist who filmed a documentary on sex-for-grade practices in some West African universities and utilised her voice and gifts to advocate for gender equality by bringing some of the pertinent issues affecting young women to the fore should be encouraged. According to her, “Mordi in her groundbreaking documentary: Sex-for-Grades, helped give Nigerian women and girls who are survivors of sexual violence, a sense of justice. Violence against women and girls is one of the most widespread and pervasive human rights violations in our world today. One in three women worldwide has experienced physical or sexual violence.” To Senator Omo-Agege, passing the bill would not only send a strong signal but ensure that students are not at the mercy of “sexual predators, as some would not have spent more years in school just because they dared to stand their ground against vicious and wicked sexual predators in many of our universities.” The lawmaker said that “had we acted earlier, many respected married women seated in their homes and possibly even here or watching us right now online or on live television, would have avoided the trauma of sexual harassment that still torment them till date.” The bill which seeks to promote and protect ethical standards in tertiary institutions, also attempts to protect students against sexual harassment as well as prevent sexual harassment by educators in tertiary schools. The proposed law stipulates that a lecturer shall be adjudged “guilty if he/she has sexual intercourse with a student or demands for sex from a student or a prospective student, intimidates or creates a hostile or offensive environment for the student by soliciting for sex from the student or making sexual advances towards the student, directs or induces another person to commit any act of sexual harassment or cooperates in the commission of sexual harassment by another person.” Also, a lecturer who grabs, hugs, kisses, rubs or strokes or touches or pinches the breasts or hair or lips or hips or buttocks or any other sensual part a student, displays, gives or sends naked or sexually explicit pictures or videos or sex-related objects to a student by hand or courier or electronic or any other means, whistles or winks at a student or screams or exclaims or jokes or makes sexually complimentary or uncomplimentary remarks about a student’s physique or stalks a student will be affected. The bill, however, gives conditions that would make the actions stated above not become crimes. It also lists conditions that even if raised would not be tenable as justifications of a lecturer’s actions. It, however, recommends possible jail terms for any person who commits any of the offences or acts of demanding sex, intimidating a student or inducing another person to commit any act of sexual harassment, is guilty of an offence of felony and shall, on conviction, be sentenced to an imprisonment term of up to 14 years but not less than five years, without an option of a fine; any person who commits any of the offences or acts of touching a student, sending sexual pictures or videos to a student, or make sexual advances or passes towards a student, is guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment term of up to five years but not less than two years, without an option of a fine. There shall also be disciplinary measures for institutions and penalties for defaulters. For example, the administrative head of an institution shall establish an Independent Sexual Harassment Prohibition Committee in consultation with the highest management body of the school, among others. However, despite calls from stakeholders for the passage of the bill, controversy has continued to trail it as the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) and some women right advocacy groups recently clashed at the Senate over the bill. Also, at a recent public hearing organised by Senator Michael Opeyemi Bamidele-led Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, ASUU rejected the bill, saying that when passed, it would amount to “proliferation” and “repetition” of legislations to make a separate law to check sexual harassment in tertiary institutions while on the contrary, NANS and other women rights advocacy groups supported it, stressing that the bill would help curb the incidence of sexual harassment in the nation’s Ivory Towers and other higher institutions of learning. To ASUU national president, Prof. Biodun Ogunyemi, if there was a law that addressed issues relating to sexual harassment, there was no need wasting time making another law. He said: “Are there no laws that would address this same problem we are concerned about? I think the answer is yes. We have the Act of 2015. We should reconcile this bill with that Act to cover our new areas of concern. Are we also going to formulate a separate law to address corruption in universities; are we going to formulate other laws to address sexual harassment in the police force? “If we find any law deficient, what does it cost us to review it? This bill has failed to take cognisance of various extant legislations that currently deal with sexual offences. I see confusion between sexual harassment and abuse,” he said. Ogunyemi further said that there was the need to review the existing laws and recognise the autonomy of the universities. “We have the University Autonomy Act of 2007 which was legislated by the National Assembly, which made provisions for us to address all of these issues. We talk of the institutional procedures – these procedures are irreconcilable with prosecution. “There are aspects that are criminal; immediately such instance happens, we know where to go. Universities are currently handling problems like this and we should not agree with you; we should not discredit our custodians of knowledge,” he stated. However, other stakeholders kicked against the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act (VAPP) of 2015, accusing ASUU of being defensive of the lecturers. The executive director, Youth Alive Foundation (YAF), Dr. Uduak Okon, argued that the “new law is not about lecturers alone as it addresses the general menace, so therefore should stand. This bill is about those lecturers perpetrating these offences, identifying them and imposing sanctions on them. The thing ASUU does is to close ranks and protect them. They should instead see that this could be a situation for ASSU to clear its names and reputation. ASUU has to stop feeling threatened by this bill.”