Dr. Osahon Enabulele is a consultant surgeon and an associate professor at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Benin City, Edo State. In this interview with PATIENCE IVIE IHEJIRIKA, he stressed the need for government at all levels to address the huge deficit in the number of functional cancer treatment centres and oncologists in the country. How would you describe the cancer burden in Nigeria? It is undoubtedly huge, with an upward spiral in the incidence and prevalence rates. In 2018, over 115 000 new cases of cancer were recorded, with the productive age groups (young and middle-aged groups) more affected. Does Nigeria have enough cancer treatment centres with functional machines? Aside from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH)/ Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority Cancer treatment Centre that was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari on February 9, 2019, which commenced active operations in the second half of last year, I do not think there are currently more than seven public and private cancer centres with functional machines in Nigeria. This is about one machine to 20 million Nigerians, as against a minimum requirement of about 200 cancer centres or 600 units of radiotherapy machines that Nigeria is expected to have. This is grossly inadequate for a Nigerian population of over 200 million. So, there is evident dearth of facilities. Another challenge is that even the facilities that may be currently functional often experience frequent breakdown due to the challenge of power supply and poor maintenance culture. Are there enough oncologists in Nigeria? They are evidently few and far in between. Nigeria currently has about 80 oncologists serving a population of over 200 million. Similarly, there is a serious dearth of medical physicists, trained oncology nurses and radiotherapy radiographers. What would you say about the problems encountered by patients in seeking treatment? There is no doubt that patients in need of cancer treatment go through a lot to access care. This is largely because of the grossly inadequate number of functioning radiotherapy and cancer treatment centres in Nigeria, compounded by the fact that cancer treatments are usually quite prohibitive for an average cancer patient. It is further compounded by the fact that even the existing functional centres may be located far away from the patients. As a result of this, some patients have to go through various treatment centres, sometimes up to three centres, to get care. Some have to be on a long waiting list to get their turn, sometimes with no hope of receiving care if the machine breaks down before their turn, as is often the case. So, obtaining access to appropriate treatment for their condition has been a real challenge for cancer patients in Nigeria, and also one of the reasons for patients opting for foreign medical care. I still have vivid recollections of the traumatic experiences my father went through in the course of seeking treatment for his medical condition. It was truly horrible. What is the way forward? The reality of the cancer epidemic and the non-availability of adequate number of functional cancer treatment centres and oncologists demands the urgent intervention of governments at all levels. While it is commendable that a new cancer treatment centre has been established in Lagos, there is need for the government to do much more to satisfactorily address the huge deficit in the number of functional cancer treatment centres and oncologists in Nigeria. They should scale up the number of centres to at least one cancer treatment centre per region, and gradually increase it to many more facilities in Nigeria. They must not only provide enough to cater for the teeming population of cancer patients, they must also build into their procurement policies effective, efficient and sustainable maintenance policy frameworks to prevent the usual experience of frequent breakdown of these facilities in institutions where they may be available. he federal and state ministries of health should develop a responsive and strategic health human resource development plan with measurable indicators and targets, to address the gross deficit in the number of oncologists in Nigeria. State governments and other public agencies/bodies and private investors should support efforts at expanding the number of cancer treatment centres in Nigeria. As part of measures to address the prohibitive cost of cancer management in Nigeria, I call on the federal government to eliminate tariffs and import duties on medical technologies and medicines, including those for the management of cancers. Additionally, the benefit package of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) should be more responsive to the needs of cancer patients, and other Nigerians with chronic medical conditions. Indeed, I call for the full integration of all aspects of cancer management into NHIS. Massive and sustained cancer awareness advocacy campaigns should be mounted, with emphasis placed on primary and secondary health preventive measures, including the lifestyle practices and health-seeking behaviour of Nigerians. The current situation where cancer patients present their cases late need to be reversed while lifestyle practices should therefore be built into the health preventive measures, with periodic check-up encouraged to aid early detection and treatment of cancers.