TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes on the renewed commitment to change the narratives in rice production and processing in the country as Darma Rice Mill projected to bridge the mechanisation gap in rice production in the country. Nigeria is the most populous country in Africa, as of 2019, the estimated population of the country is over 200 million. The nation’s domestic economy is dominated by agriculture, which accounts for about 40% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and two-thirds of the labour force. Agriculture supplies food, raw materials and generates household income for the majority of the people. The external sector is dominated by petroleum, which generates about 95 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign exchange earnings while agriculture contributes less than 10 per cent. Sadly, squealing to the discovery of petroleum, Nigeria has rapidly grown into a major food-importing nation as the government has become neglectful of the agricultural sector since petroleum is considered a more viable resource for economic development. Preoccupied with the challenge of diversifying the structure of its economy and its desire to boost local production of rice considering its investment in the agriculture sector, the President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government on 22 August, 2019 closed its land borders aimed at plugging leakages and helping the economy by checkmating smuggling and unbridled importation, conserving foreign reserves and boosting local production, necessary for food sufficiency and the long march towards industrialization. This is even as the federal government noted that since ongoing border drill in four geo-political zones of the country the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) now generates between N5 and N8 billion daily and has recorded over 30 per cent increase in revenue since the drill and has drastically curtailed the inflow of arms and ammunition. The exercise, code-named, ‘Ex-Swift Response’, was launched, as part of measures to secure Nigeria’s land and maritime borders, the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) and Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), in collaboration with the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN) as well as the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and other security and intelligence agencies commenced the joint border security exercise, in four geopolitical zones of the country, namely; South-South, South-West, North-Central and North-West on the 20 August, 2019. The exercise is being coordinated by the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) and is aimed at better securing our borders to strengthen the nation’s economy and address other trans-border security concerns. The food sub-sector of Nigerian agriculture parades a large array of staple crops, made possible by the diversity of agro-ecological production systems. The major food crops are: cereals – sorghum, maize, millet, rice, wheat; tubers – yam, cassava; legumes – groundnut, cowpeas and others such as vegetables These are the commodities that are of considerable importance for food security, expenditures, and incomes of households. But of all the staple crops, rice has risen to a position of preheminence. Since the mid-1970s, rice consumption in Nigeria has risen tremendously, at about 10 per cent per annum due to changing consumer preferences. Domestic production has never been able to meet the demand, leading to considerable imports as the country consumes almost 7 million tonnes a year. The imports are procured on the world market with Nigeria spending annually an average of US $22 billion (₦7.92trn) each year on food imports. However, Nigeria’s rice statistics suggest that there is an enormous potential to raise productivity and increase production. Yields have remained at 2 tonnes per hectare, and as population increases, along with rural to urban migration, ensuring food security in key staples becomes critical. But, it has become evidently clear that food security cannot be achieved by a system that depends almost entirely on human muscle power and other manual methods. As of September 2019, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said it has spent N146 billion to support 849,480 wet and dry seasons rice farmers across the country. The CBN Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, gave the details at a meeting with some state Governors in Abuja said that the bank was working with other stakeholders to wage war against smuggling of rice into the country. As the country continues to take steps to ramp up domestic production in rice production and as part of efforts to bridge its mechanisation gap in the country and to complement the effort of federal government, the chairman of Max Air, Alhaji Dahiru Mangal is building a ₦20 billion worth rice mill in Kastina state aimed at revolutionalising rice production in the country. With the renewed commitment of the federal government in direct response to the mechanisation gap in the country and also to complement the federal government’s effort, Darma Rice rice mill is projected to be the biggest in Africa. The rice mill project LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered will be divided into two phases, and would be completed by the first quarter of 2020, and is aimed at assisting the country to meet the domestic demand for high quality parboiled rice and attain self-sufficiency in rice production. The project manager, Mr. Mukhtar Kafinsoli said that with a production capacity of 36 tonnes per hour in two production lines, the mill would be the largest rice mill in Africa. While speaking with LEADERSHIP Weekend added that the second line of the mill comprises of silos and raw materials store, stressing that the plan is to have four capacity, but they are starting with two at the moment. Kafinsoli: ‘’We intended to have four capacity starting with two. We will start the second batch immediately after completing the ongoing project. The machines arrived Nigeria by 25 December, 2019 and the project will be completed by March 2020.’’ Meanwhile, the managing director of the Rice Mill, Dr. Nural Dahiru Mangal, said that over 2000 direct staff would be employed, along with over 200 expatriates who are going to train the indigenous staff. He revealed that the rice mill would have a conventional storage facility of 12,00 metric tonnes of rice worth N20 billion. Mangal added that fertilizer plant would equally be built to help increase the yield of rice. According to him, ‘’The rice mill was designed by Indians due to their expertise in rice mill business but is being built by Nigerians. We will give it maximum support for the project to be achieved. ‘’The government has long been concerned that its people are too focused on importing the things they want, and they are using their money to support foreign countries, instead of home-grown goods and Darma is here to change the narratives.” He said the welfare of its staff remains paramount hence, staff quarters will be built to accommodate 130 staffers. “A story building will be built for staff quarters with the capacity to accommodate 130 staff. Also, a staff quarter that will accommodate over 200 expatriates with staff canteens would also be built,” he said. He said with Darma rice mill projected to be the biggest rice mill in Africa, the much-expected rice revolution in the country is about to begin. ‘’Food is no doubt, the most basic of all human survival needs. Although, so many efforts have been sunk in improving the quality as well as production but failed. Economists both locally and internationally have severally pointed out that Nigeria’s economic output is underperforming, but we are here to change the narratives,’’ he added.