As Nigeria joined the rest of the world to commemorate this year’s World Leprosy Day, stakeholders have urged against stigmatization and discrimination against people affected by leprosy. Leprosy, also known as Hansen’s disease, is a chronic infectious disease caused by slow multiplying bacillus, (mycobacterium leprae)  with incubation period of about five years. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the disease mainly affects the skin, the peripheral nerves, mucosal surfaces of the upper respiratory tract and the eyes. Leprosy is still a public health problem in Nigeria as the country is rated among the few countries in the world that are still reporting greater than 1,000 new leprosy cases annually. Nigeria in 2018 recorded over 2000 cases. The 2015 National Leprosy Review, revealed that 18 states across the country are still endemic for leprosy. Speaking at a press briefing in commemoration of this year’s World Leprosy Day, themed: Hansen’s Disease: Free World with Knowledge and Love, the minister of state for health, Dr. Adeleke Mamora, said Nigeria’s leprosy control efforts have been bedevilled with a number of challenges. Stigmatisation and discrimination against persons affected and their families are still a major challenge in the country as there are mistaken beliefs about the disease, said Mamora According to the minister,  “fear of rejection by family and friends make individuals to be scared of seeking early care if they suspect leprosy. Stigma and discrimination discourage integration of persons affected back to their communities even after they have been cured.” He therefore urged Nigerians to show love and acceptance to persons affected by leprosy while recalling President Muhammadu Buhari’s remark which is “we cannot continue to allow our people to be disabled by a curable disease if we sincerely want to achieve the SDGs.” He reafirmed the ministry’s commitment to continue working with partners to ensure effective and sustained leprosy control in line with the 2016-2020 Global Leprosy Strategy. “Early detection and complete treatment with Multi Drug Therapy (MDT) remain the fundamental principles of leprosy control hence the continued need for a concerted response from all stakeholders. Together, we must trive to achieve our goal of zero discrimination, zero disease and zero disability,” said Mamora. Also, the International Federation of Anti-leprosy Association (ILEP), said Contrary to many of the myths and misconceptions associated with the leprosy,  it is completely curable. ILEP chairman, Dr Sunday Udoh, in his  speech at the event, said inspite of the fact that the disease is curable,  many persons affected by the disease are still suffer stigma prejudice and rejection from society and sometimes even withing their immediate families. Udo, who is also the Country Director, The Leprosy Mission Nigeria (TLMN) said “This situation results in needless suffering by individuals, families and even communities affected by the disease in the country and in many parts of the world. “This year’s theme therefore challenge all stakeholders to continue to seek for new ways to tackle this new scourge and  it reminds us all treat persons affected by Hansen’ s disease as we our selves would like to be treated – with love,  respect and dignity.” According to him, ILEP will be launching it’s knowledge-driven chemoteraphylaxis pilot programme  (PEP)  in the six geopolitical zones of the country. This effort,  Udo said is aimed at achieving zero transmission. “PEP is based on sound research and aims to prevent new infections trough the administration of single dose of refampicin to all contacts of newly diagnosed leprosy affected persons. “It is hoped that this innovation will lead to the complete eradication of the disease in the long term.” Reiterating ILEP’S commitment to the Federal Ministry of Health in the fight against Hansen’s disease, Udo noted that the country is winning the battle as the number of new Hansen’s diseases have steadily been on the decrease from from 5000 new cases in year 2000 to just over 2000 cases at the end of 2018. World Leprosy Day is commemorated every last Sunday of January. The day is set aside to create awareness and mobilise support for leprosy control. 