The importance of Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (SMEs) to the development of the country cannot be over-emphasised. In this report, OLUSHOLA BELLO seeks the views of stakeholders on how the new Finance Bill, which came into effect on February 1, 2020, will have an impact on the sector. T he Finance Bill will enhance Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria, strengthen micro, small and medium scale enterprises, as well as address the revenue challenge facing the country. Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (SMEs) sector is the backbone of major developed economies, as well as important contributors to employment, economic and export growth. In Nigeria, SMEs contribute 48 per cent of national GDP, account for 96 per cent of businesses and 84 per cent of employment. Despite the significant contribution of SMEs to the Nigerian economy, challenges still persist that hinder the growth and development of the sector. Challenges encountered by the sector include lack of skilled manpower, multiplicity of taxes, high cost of doing business, cost of funding, among others. Recently, the Finance bill was signed into law, with its effective take off date of February 1, 2020. Comparing its potential impact on diverse sectors, the bill is expected to significantly boost productivity in the Agric, SMEs, retail and Insurance sectors. Startups and SMEs may pay zero per cent Company Income Tax (CIT) due to the new basis of computing CIT. Though, this depends on their annual turnover. The Act exempts small companies with turnovers of less than N25 million from paying minimum tax. In addition, medium sized companies with turnovers between N25 million and N100 million are now required to pay a lesser rate of 20 per cent as CIT; however, the former CIT rate of 30 per cent is still applicable to large companies with turnovers above N100 million. The Finance Bill seeks to introduce across-the-board changes to the various tax laws in Nigeria that would impact on MSMEs and their role in sustainable economic growth. The bill provides certain incentives for businesses. Companies are generally expected to account for VAT based on invoices issued (i.e. accrual). This requires companies to render returns in the month following taxable supply or purchase. Failure to register for VAT attracts a penalty of N10,000 and N5,000 for each subsequent month where failure continues. Exported services and basic food items are exempted from VAT. The VAT Act defines exported service as service performed by a Nigerian resident or a Nigerian company to a person outside Nigeria which is ambiguous. It is also to prescribe that small businesses with turnover less than N25 million would be exempted from CIT while a lower CIT rate of 20 per cent would apply to medium-sized companies with turnover between N25million and N100 million. Small businesses may have to prove to their customers that they do not meet the threshold to avoid withholding tax. Also it increased VAT rate from five per cent to 7.5 per cent, while penalties for failure to register will increase to N25,000 for the first month of default and N20,000 for each subsequent month. Minister of Finance, Budget, and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, said at a tax strategy forum that the finance bill proposes essential palliatives to support MSMEs and mitigate the impact of the VAT rate increase on the most vulnerable business communities and citizens in the economy. President of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Mansur Ahmed said for the first time in a long time Nigeria has a comprehensive finance bill which brings together key issues on fiscal policy that needs to be constantly under review. President of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Mrs Toki Mabogunje noted that the finance act is aimed at generating more revenue for government and making the business environment more enabling by reducing the tax burden on micro, small and medium enterprises. She noted further that the act will help support the funding and implementation of the 2020 budget, saying that however, the increase in VAT rate from five percent to 7.5 percent gives concern. She pointed out that “The new tax regime does not bode well for manufacturers and other stakeholders in the real economy. The new tax regime will affect cost of production and profit margin, with consumers at the receiving end. The VAT hike has implications for inflationary pressure and consumer demand. We advise government to utilise the additional income that will be generated from the increase in VAT to develop quality infrastructure, not only on payment of worker’s salaries.” The director-general of the LCCI, Muda Yusuf, also stated that the MSMEs, which constitute a greater part of the business environment, suffers from high tax rates and tax multiplicity which are partly hurting the capacity of these businesses to survive and to achieve their aims and objectives. He urged tax regulators aid MSMEs using concessionary tax rates, tax holidays and other favourable policies that will support their sustainability. Speaking the chief operating officer of InvestData Consulting Limited, Ambrose Omordion said that “The robustness of the proposed amendments to our fiscal laws is unprecedented in the history of tax administration in Nigeria and it will provide significant support for SMEs in terms of tax benefits. However, no matter how fantastic a tax regime is structured, there will always be loopholes that will be exploited by taxpayers to avoid tax. “Therefore, the government needs to continuously review and update our tax statutes to block these loopholes and ensure the government receives the right amount of tax. At the same time, the government needs to invest in critical sectors of the economy that will stimulate production, while also pruning down the over-bloated government expenses.” Omordion said that “As highlighted by the Bill, most of the elements are clearly aimed at easing business operations and alleviating the regulatory burdens for SMEs. This is expected to stimulate growth in the SME space and ultimately drive increased growth rate for the economy.” Analysing the Bill, experts from accounting firm KPMG Nigeria said the new law of exempting small businesses Companies Income Tax is expected to come as a relief to the lot of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria, most of which already struggle to stay afloat in a hostile business environment. According to them, Nigeria’s SMEs are starved of capital as poor access to finance constitutes a major constraint for businesses. Similar challenges encountered by the sector include the high cost of doing business and multiplicity of taxes, a problem the new bill looks to eliminate. “The initiative is laudable and the proposed modifications to the fiscal rules around taxation are clearly aimed at creating an enabling business environment and alleviating the tax burden for small and medium enterprises. Also, this is expected to encourage growth and investment by that sector of the economy.” In conclusion, the Act introduces laudable changes to Nigeria’s tax laws and brings it on par with global best standards. It encourages the growth of early stage startups and SMEs through the various tax palliatives targeted at them. These companies will be able to redirect revenue saved from these palliatives back to their businesses. Considering that SMEs account for 96 per cent of all businesses and 84 per cent of employment, it is likely to impact positively on economic growth.