100 youths in six states of the federation are to benefit from the Lions Club skill acquisition programme initiated by the clubs leadership from March next year. Those to benefit from the programme will be train to acquire skills in the area of web design development and other area of human endeavor so that the beneficiaries can become self reliant. Immediate past regional Chairperson of club, Lion Charles Itu, made the promise in an interactive session with our correspondent in Calabar, stressing that the club under his auspices shall witness serious transformation. Upon completion of the ICT training, the beneficiaries of the programme will become self reliant and become useful to themselves, their families and society at large to the extent that they will begin to contribute their GDP quota towards nations building as compared in the past where they rarely contribute nothing to economy of the nation Itu who spoke days after the club leadership flagged off campaign for election into the position of the club’s 2nd Vice district Governor of district 404A2 Nigeria stressed that with the acquisition of the skills, number of army of unemployed youth who roam the nation’s streets in search of white collar job would be reduced. “Its going to be an opportunity for beneficiaries of the programme to take their destinies in their hands, stressing the states involved Imo, Rivers,Akwa Ibom, Cross River and the Federal Capital Territory FCT, Abuja. “Apart the 100 youths being trained to acquire skills in information technology ICT, (web design) and others, youths would Al’s be trained to acquire certain skills in other areas of human endeavors. “The training exercise is one programme will be in line with line with effort President Mohammadu Buhari who has been keen to reduce the high rate of unemployment in the country” ITU maintained. “Apart training youths to acquire basic skills on ICT, web design and others, we promised to train them in the area of also acquiring leadership skill, survival strategy among others. He said that with such skills young people can afford to face the realities of the time,instead of junketing from one place to the other soliciting for assistance on how to survive. He solicited support of his club members particularly those in Abuja, Owerri, Port Harcourt, Uyo and Calabar so that he can proof his mettle when he is given opportunity to pilot the club’s affairs on the capacity of 2nd Vice District Governor for district 404A2 Nigeria beginning from match this year after the contest. “Lions club club of district 404A2 will make sure that young people are made to become self sustaining. My team and I shall ensure that every aiota of shackles of poverty/ life of depending on people survival is broke into pieces. “We are going to teach young people on how to catch fishes instead of giving them fishes to eat.if we don’t teach now on how to fish what happen tomorrow when we aren’t they any long? “There is nothing as good as being self reliant and being able to fend for one’s self, than running helter-skelter chasing people around for survival,” he stated, and solicited the support of members to vote for him during the election.