In a bid to reducing the impact of gas flaring in Nigeria, Arbel Energy and Logistics over the weekend disclosed that it has entered partnership with American company, Zeeco Incorpration, to reduce the economic loss of gas flaring and its impact on the economy. Speaking at the official introduction of the company to stakeholders in Lagos, the managing director Zeeco, Mr Nigel Palfreeman said gas flaring would be redirected into other area that would be of more economic benefit to the country and reduce the negative impact on the environment. He said, “We are here to work and help Nigeria to move forward with environmental products and also in gas recovery and to be able to tackle some of the environmental issues that is going on in the country perhaps not just in the country but around the world. “Nigeria which is about the seventh highest flaring country in the world and with Zeeco, the world leader in environmental equipment and combusting technology, will look at the environmental impact on that. “Gas flaring in Nigeria is quite huge but the other thing is the energy that is lost which can never be recovered. So, if we can recover it for economical gain, it will preserve the nation’s environment.” Also speaking, the chairman Arbel energy and logistics, Mr Umar Ardo, said the company is bent on stopping the environmental issues of flaring of gas especially now that  the federal government  is trying to go commercial on gas. According to him, if the gas is recovered, they could be used to generate power and also cooking. He said, “if we recover the gas that we are flaring, we can use it to generate power and also for cooking gas because if we do so, we stop the environmental issue by stopping deforestation.” On his own part, the managing director, Arbel energy and logistics, Mr Adefola Amoo, disclosed that Zeeco has no presence in Africa but they have in middle East, Asia, Europe and America while Africa is blank.” “ The whole world is talking about gas and even Nigeria is talking about ending gas flaring so, it is interesting to note that Nigeria is not only an oil country but a gas country in terms of natural resources,” he said.