In view of the emergence of various infectious diseases, the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) yesterday, organised a one day symposium on emerging and re-emerging viral diseases. Participants at the event which are scholars from far and near expressed optimism that, despite challenges, Nigeria seems to be making headway in the health sector. The symposium has Emerging and Re-emerging Viral Diseases, The Story of Lassa and COVID-19 Viruses as its theme. Speaking in his welcome address, the host and Vice Chancellor of UDUS, Professor Lawal Bilbis represented by the DVC Academics, Prof Lawali Abubakar noted that, the symposium was very apt in view of the global trend of infectious diseases. He however adder that, the ivory tower is working towards the establishment of a Center For Emerging And Infectious Diseases. Prof Bilbis further added that their aim was to among other things ensure that lassa and other emerging viruses are eliminated from Nigeria Speaking on his part, the Director General NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu represented by Dr John Oladejo, the Director Emergency Preparedness and Response noted that every one have a stake in ensuring a healthy society for all. Prof Chikwe who spoke on a paper titled, “An Overview and An Update on the Epidemiology of Emerging and Re-emerging Viral Infections in Nigeria and globally, confirmed that Nigeria is free of coronavirus, as they have so far tested 31suspected patients and the results all proved negative. Another speaker, Dr Muhammad Bashir Bello from the Department of Vet Microbiology, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, (UDUS) decried that Nigeria is witnessing unprecedented outbreak of Lassa fever, adding that it has affected about 26 states of the federation. Dr Muhammad while speaking on a paper titled, Eliminating the Threat of Lassa Fever using Innovative Vaccine Technology”, lamented that Nigerian do not have a license vaccine to take care of lassa fewer. “60 years after the outbreak of Lassa fever, Nigeria do not have license vaccine”. In his reaction, Sokoto state commissioner for Animal Health and Fishery’s, Development, Prof Junaidu Abdulkadir advised that, tackling emerging viruses entails collaborative efforts by all stakeholders. Another dignitary at the occasion said, more funds, professionals and commitment has to be given to disease surveillance, scrutiny and treatment if the nation is to get it right