President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday lauded Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, on the establishment of the Ondo-Linyi Industrial hub and the construction of the flyover in Ore. President Buhari who described the projects initiated and completed by the Akeredolu’s administration as a remarkable achievement, said Federal Government will meet its obligations to the State on the construction of this Interchange Flyover in due course. The President was at Ore, the commercial city of the state to commission the Ondo -Linyi industrial hub and the first flyover in the state. He was received by Governors; Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti) Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) Godwin Obaseki (Edo) and other dignitaries including the former vice chairman (Southwest) of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Pius Akinyelure. President Buhari said the Ondo-Linyi industrial hub was an idea which has come to reality with hard work and dedication by the Governor. While thanking the people of the state for their supports for the government of Akeredolu, the President expresses confidence that the industrial hub will utilize local material which will create jobs for the young ones. On the flyover, President Buhari said the Interchange will boost economic activities in the State, ease traffic congestion as well as reduce accidents often experienced on the major road. Buhari recalled that the re-designing and construction of the road to accommodate Interchange Flyover was overdue as a result of the growing population in Ore. He said, ”During the civil war and during my campaigns since 2002, I have become familiar with the terrain of Ore which is a connecting city between the Southwest and the Eastern parts of our country. ”As a result of this, the city has a cosmopolitan population that is in the neighbourhood of 300,000. ”This is a city that can be described as a mini-Nigeria as almost all ethnic groups of our country are happily represented here. ”Let me commend Governor Akeredolu and his team for their great efforts and professionalism in putting this project in place. ”This project is executed in line with the spirit and drive of the Federal Government which puts great emphasis on infrastructural development across our country, especially in the area of transportation.” In his remark, Governor Akeredolu said the Ondo-Linyi industrial hub was part of the vision of his administration to create job and improve the fortune of the state. Describing the state as the hidden treasure of the country, Akeredolu alluded the presence of the abundance mineral resources available in the state. He thanked the President for finding time to the state while describing the integrity of the President as a motivation for his followers. 