Despite the numerous challenges, Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) recorded impressive performance last year as it grew beyond the projection of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). A report published by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) yesterday showed the GDP grew by 2.27 per cent as against the IMF forecast of 2.1 per cent. According to the report, this represents the highest rate since Nigeria entered recession in 2016. The NBS said that the GDP for 2019 grew by 2.27 per cent, higher than 2.1 per cent projection of the IMF even as analysts assert the country still has the capacity to surpass the two per cent projection of the fund for this year. Last week, the IMF had reviewed downwards its projection for 2020 from 2.5 per cent to two per cent but analysts believe that if the country continues to focus on critical areas in the non-oil sector that could spur employment and trade, it has the capacity to surpass the IMF projection. The managing director of Afrinvest Securities Limited, Ayodeji Ebo, said that if Nigeria is able to sustain the present momentum, “it is not impossible for us to surpass the two per cent projection by IMF. In Afrinvest, our projection is 2.5 per cent. So, we still feel that we may be able to achieve that 2.5 per cent as there is more credit to the real sector now and if power supply also improves, that may also help.” While noting that the major contributor to the GDP growth is the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) subsector which grew by almost nine per cent, he said that “there is still a lot that needs to be done in the major areas that will contribute to employment in terms of manufacturing, in terms of trade, in terms of agriculture. “They (the government) need to be more focused on that and sustain some of the things that they are doing in that space. Agriculture, because of the crisis and with all the interventions, we are not seeing as much as we want because of the insecurity.” Also speaking on the GDP figures, head, Research at United Capital, Mr. Wale Olusi, said that there was no surprise as “all the momentum we saw in Q4 actually supported growth compared to the previous quarter. “Generally, Q4 is always a bit stronger than every other quarter of the year probably due to year end rush and an increased spending in the system. But at 2.3 or 2.27 per cent for the overall annual growth, it means that momentum in the economy remains gradual because that is a little bit uptick from the previous year and nothing spectacular has happened. “It means that consumer wallet and spending remain quite weak and the bulk of what is happening in the economy is still at the micro level which more or less speaks to the approach at which the government is also trying to drive the economy concentrating a lot on the retail and micro segment.” On what would aide growth, he said that “for us to go back to a growth that is faster, we need big reforms that would have a spiral effect on the overall economy. So long as we continue to tackle the little things that have not so significant impact on the economy, in 2020, we would continue to hover around two per cent GDP growth levels. “The whole world is drifting away from oil but we still need a big reform in the Nigerian oil sector. The bill that has been sitting in the National Assembly for years can drive investment into the Nigerian oil and gas segment.” He added that reforms should focus more on boosting more production and reforms around gas utilisation. “Another sector that needs something big is the power sector. The power sector is what our telecoms sector was 20 years ago and reforms need to be made to attract more investors,” he said. However, an analyst at FXTM, Lukman Otunuga, while noting that the GDP figure is “certainly encouraging and continues to illustrate Nigeria’s resilience to external and domestic threats,” said that the risks to the economy are mounting. He noted that with crude accounting for less than 10 per cent of GDP but remains the biggest source of foreign revenue for the nation “the combination of weak oil prices and slowing growth from China could negatively impact Nigeria’s growth potential in 2020. “Severely depressed oil prices could hit economic growth during the first quarter of 2020. Oil has depreciated over 15 per cent since the start of the year amid the coronavirus outbreak. China is one of Nigeria’s biggest trading partners with total trade flows during the third quarter of 2019 surpassing $3.2 billion.”