Ogun state government on Wednesday declared that it is working towards evolving a clear policy direction over activities and operations of commercial motorcyclists popularly referred to as “okada” riders in the state. The state government made the declaration in a statement issued in Abeokuta, the state capital by the Special Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Public Communications, Rt. Hon. Remmy Hazzan. Speaking against the backdrop of the brouhaha generated over comments credited to Chairman Caretaker Committee on Transportation in the State, Barrister Femi Adeniyi, wherein he said that the state was ready to accommodate overflow from Lagos state, Abiodun’s Special Adviser on Public Communication emphatically declared that doors of the state are only opened to genuine businessmen and foreign investors to take advantage of the proximity of the Gateway state to the nation’s commercial and biggest market and not to accommodate okada riders, whose operations were recently restricted by the Lagos state government. Noting that okada operations and activities are fraught with many challenges, including that of security, Hazzan also explained that such was responsible for why their operations have either been totally banned or restricted in many parts of the country. Hazzan further explained that deploying motorcycles for commercial operation was not in the schedule of the National Transportation policy, adding that the Ogun state government is already looking into the issue with a view to coming out with a clear policy direction. He said the state does not have the capacity to cope with the menace and security challenges which the influx of the okada operators from Lagos state and any other neighbouring state would pose. “The present administration, in its determination to further enhance the status of the state as the most industrialised, has put in place policies that would attract more businesses home and abroad. “Governor Dapo Abiodun has been meeting with potential investors in the country and even travelled abroad in his efforts to attract more investors into the state.” The statement further stated that the present administration is desirous of providing gainful employment for her teeming citizens, but with emphasis on agriculture. It appealed to the people to go about their normal businesses as efforts have been made to prevent security breaches in the state. 