Indication emerged yesterday that the National Assembly is under threat of imminent attack by alleged members of the Boko Haram as some strange and suspicious persons were sighted milling around in the complex. Signals from security conscious authorities indicated that in the last few days, the entire institution has been flooded with strange persons dressed in funny looking attires. To address the distressing security situation, a security sub-committee set up by the clerk to the National Assembly, Mohammed Ataba Sani-Omolori, had recommended that an arms bearing elite force be established for the National Assembly. A member of the management who confided with LEADERSHIP on condition of anonymity yesterday said that these strange and suspicious faces, find their ways into the complex unfortunately claiming to be constituents of some lawmakers thereby beating security checks and endangering lives and property. When contacted, director, Public Affairs, Yahaya Dan-Zaria, also expressed worries and concerns over the ugly development and however noted that steps are being taken to nip the situation in bud. Another top ranking official of the National Assembly voiced out his concerns, saying, “Yes! We have this dangerous intelligence reports that the National Assembly may be a victim of terrorist attack and we are not joking with it. Several steps are being taken but many stakeholders are not showing the needed co-operation. The way strange and very suspicious looking persons throng the National Assembly complex in recent times is worrisome.” The situation has overstretched security architecture in the complex. Many of them if confronted at the gates are quick to resort to claims of being constituents of one lawmaker or the other. The point must be made that the National Assembly is not a place to meet constituents or have any form of ceremony with them. It is a place for serious legislative businesses bordering on the country’s socio-political and economic life. “Again, the point must be made that the kind of persons who now seat as members of both chambers of the National Assembly are such that command security attention. They are people who had held very prominent and sensitive positions at various levels in the recent past. Having occupied such positions meant more security burden on the National Assembly to forestall eventuality of any sort” Before the end of 2019, a twelve member ad hoc committee was set up to work out some remedial measures for the National Assembly. Headed by the Sergeant – at-arms, Brigadier General Mohammed Sani Danwalis (rtd) the committee recommended series of measures which must be taken. However, it was learnt that key aspects of the recommendation were yet to be addressed. The recommendations of the security Committee includes, ‘’rationalization of banks and other business outfits whose operations are neither incidental nor complementary to the functions of the National Assembly: “Leadership of the Senate and the House of Representatives should prevail on legislators to submit themselves to security checks, especially a t he point of entry into the National Assembly: ‘’Security clearance should be a major requirement for disengaging legislative aides. Also, renewal of identity cards for legislative aides should be made annually” Others are that the Directorate of Human Resources and Staff Development should maintain a data base on all staff, legislative aides and legislators which should be shared with all security agencies: “The Management of the National Assembly should advise security chiefs to desist from bearing arms within the precincts of the National Assembly. “The Directorate of Research and Information, in conjunction with security agencies, must ensure that journalists practicing in the National Assembly are accredited on a yearly basis. “Sergeant-at-Arms, in conjunction with Department of State Services must step up vetting and accreditation of visitors to regulate human traffic. “Construction of a befitting security accreditation centre to process visitors should be made a priority. “The National Assembly, in conjunction with National identity Management Commission (NIMC) should ensure that henceforth, identity cards issued to staff, legislative aides and legislators have biometric features to stem the possibility of forgery: “The National Assembly should integrate the available on communication facilities to ease the security. In the long run prayer houses within the White House Wilma should be relocated. ‘’Contract for reconstruction of the perimeter fence around the National Assembly complex has already been awarded. The Directorate of Procurement. Estate and Works should ensure that the project ’Is delivered on time. “The National Assembly should procure 15 additional security vehicles and to motorcycles for patrol: “The National Assembly should procure more radio and communication equipment to enhance response capacity on the part of security agencies. “Security agencies in the National Assembly to hold weekly review meetings as part of efforts to build synergy. Furthermore, there should be hot lines for Sergeant-at-Arms, Police and Department of State Services.