President Muhammadu Buhari has reassured Nigerians and the international community of the commitment of his administration to secure the freedom of all children and other victims of abduction by Boko Haram insurgents. The Nigerian leader stated this at a high level breakfast dialogue on ‘‘Stop the War on Children Affected by Armed Conflicts, Dividends of Silencing the Guns’’, a side event during the 33rd African Union (AU) Summit. Buhari’s renewed pledge to rescue the captives was contained in a statement issued by his senior special assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja, yesterday. The programme was co-sponsored by Nigeria, Uganda and Norway, the AU Commission and Save the Children. In his speech, Buhari stated that “a number of school girls from Chibok and Dapchi earlier abducted by Boko Haram have regained their freedom. “We commend the gallant efforts of the Multinational Joint Task Force and the partners in supporting the reintegration of the girls. “Let me categorically reassure you of the steadfast commitment of the government of Nigeria to ensure the freedom of all kidnapped children from the shackles of Boko Haram. We will not relent until every child, boy or girl, every Nigerian adult in the custody of Boko Haram, is freed,” Buhati declared. The president urged African countries and stakeholders on the continent to work fervently towards strengthening the protection of children from the six grave violations during armed conflict. According to him, the six grave violations are killing and maiming of children, recruitment or use of children as soldiers, sexual violence against children, the abduction of children, attacks against schools or hospitals, and denial of humanitarian access for children.” Buhari expressed concern that these grave violations against children have continued unabated. ”It is for this reason that the Nigerian government has severally condemned, and is combating frontally the dreadful activities of terrorist groups such as Boko Haram and the so-called Islamic State. ”Of course, the severity of these grave violations varies from country to country. The incidence of a single violation of children rights in any country is an indelible dent on the African consciousness and is to be deplored and condemned,” he said. While reminding AU member states of their commitments to protecting children affected by armed conflicts in Africa, Buhari reaffirmed Nigeria’s commitment to the protection of children in armed conflict zones. He also outlined some concrete measures taken by Nigeria towards tackling the root causes of child soldiers and the misfortune of out-of-school children. ”To stem the tide of out-of-school children Nigeria embarked on an all-inclusive reconstruction of schools vandalised by the ravaging activities of Boko Haram terrorists, while returning children are rehabilitated and reintegrated into society. ”Our nomadic education policy is also being implemented to reduce the number of out-of-school children. We have also prioritised de-radicalisation and demobilisation of ex-combatant children of Boko Haram insurgents,” he said. The Nigerian leader also called on the AU Peace and Security Council to energetically champion the strategy to stop the war on children and adopt the Child Protection Architecture within the African Peace and Security Architecture and the Roadmap on Silencing the Guns. “The call to action is now for accountability by all African states to the rights of the children caught up in wars. Let us stop the war on children. This is a wake-up call for us all to create the enabling environment for rooting out the impact of armed conflicts against our children across the continent,” he said. President Condemns Boko Haram Attacks In Maiduguri Meanwhile, Buhari has commiserated with the families of victims of the attacks in Maiduguri, Borno State by insurgents and assured them that his administration would continually frustrate the devilish operations of Boko Haram, and bring it to an end. Buhari, in a statement issued by Shehu, condemned the “murderous and cowardly attack on innocent passengers by the Boko Haram terrorists near Maiduguri’’, adding that “this administration is ever determined to frustrate their goal to hold Nigeria to ransom. “The commitment of this administration to protect the lives of Nigerians will not be derailed by the cowardly and indiscriminate violence against innocent people by Boko Haram terrorists,’’ he said. President Buhari, who also condoled with the state government, warned “that terrorists are clearly on a back foot and their days are numbered. “As our armed forces continue to receive more hardware and intelligence to counter our current security challenges, the remnants of Boko Haram will ultimately be crushed. The peculiar challenges of asymmetric warfare notwithstanding, our armed forces are ever determined to defeat these enemies of humanity,’’ the president said. Army Rescues 3 Students From Insurgents Meanwhile, the Nigerian Army has rescued three students from the Boko Haram terrorists between Gubio and Magumeri local government areas in Borno State. The military warned commuters and travellers against using or plying Maiduguri-Damaturu highway after its routine closure by 5pm for security reasons. Briefing newsmen in Maiduguri, yesterday, the theatre commander, “Operation Lafiya Dole”, Maj-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, said that the three rescued students were returning from Gubio to Maiduguri when the terrorists attacked and abducted them. Gen. Adeniyi said that with the intervention of the commander, 158 Taskforce, Lt-Col. I. Yusuf, who mobilised his troops with the help of locals, who provided critical intelligence, the troops gave the terrorists shot pursuit, engaged them skillfully and rescued the children without a single hurt. The theatre commander said that „for reasons yet to be determined, the three of them were wearing school uniforms, which means it is easy to identify them.  We all know Boko Haram is against western education. „The terrorists immediately fled the area, taking them to their hideout to do their usual video, but God intervened. The gentleman standing beside me is Lt-Col. I.Yusuf, commanding officer 158 Taskforce Battalion. „Lt-Col. Yusuf mobilised himself and one of his response areas and they went on hot pursuit, with the help of locals, who provided critical intelligence, he closed up on the Boko Haram terrorists and engaged them skilfully without hurting the students before rescuing them back. “Rescuing hostages who Boko Haram has taken away is like collecting an animal from the jaws of a lion. But Lt-Col. Yusuf did it. I am proud of him. We all have cause to glorify God for the recovery of the children,“ Adeniyi said. The students rescued, according to Adeniyi, would be handed over to their parents after medical test at the 7 Division Military Hospital. On the incident that occurred at Auno, along Maiduguri-Damaturu Road where 30 travellers were reportedly killed while 18 vehicles including trailers were set ablaze, Adeniyi said that it was only 10 persons that were killed. The army warned commuters to abide by the rules on the road which close the road by 5 pm. He wondered that despite the activities of the Boko Haram terrorists on the road in the recent time, some people still decided to sleep overnight on the highway thereby attracting the terrorists. Adeniyi said that „people coming to Maiduguri through Damaturu should know that the road closes by 5pm. For security reasons, once it is after 1pm, commuters and travellers should break their journey to continue the following day. It is wrong to park about 200 vehicles at night on the road. „The attack did not take place when the road was opened but after it was closed for security reasons,” he said. …As NAF Bombs Terrorists’ Leaders In Borno Also yesterday, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) said that it had neutralized key Boko Haram terrorists’ leaders at Alafa Yagayaga on the fringes of Sambisa Forest in Borno State. NAF director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said that the air strike was carried out on 8th February, 2020 in continuation of “Operation Rattle Snake 3”. He explained that the air strike was executed following credible intelligence reports that the insurgents’ leaders had converged at the target (compound) for a meeting over the weekend. Daramola said that the Air Task Force “Operation Lafiya Dole” dispatched “fighter jets to obliterate a compound in the settlement where the leaders assembled for a meeting. „Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, which confirmed the meeting venue, also observed several Boko Haram terrorists in and around other buildings in the vicinity of the compound. „Bombs from the detailed attack aircraft scored accurate hits on the target leading to the obliteration of the compound and surrounding structures as well as the neutralisation of their Boko Haram terrorists’ occupants,“ he said Daramola restated the commitment of the NAF in concert with surface forces to sustain its air campaign to shape the battle space in the Northeast for the effective conduct of further ground and air operations.