Inhabitants of four communities in Ebonyi State have been groaning over the demolition of 60 houses by the state government in order to pave the way for the construction of the state airport project. About 20 houses were demolished in each of the affected communities which comprised of Umuezoka, Umuezoka -Oha, Umuoghara and Oruzo, all in Ezza North local government area of the state. Recall that on 15th August, 2018, the Ebonyi State Governor, Chief David Umahi announced plans by his administration to commence an airport project in the state. However, at Oriuzo community in Ezza North LGA, the family of Akochi Onele’s compound had about 30 houses that were demolished. LEADERSHIP gathered that the compound was among the worst-hit by the demolition. As the demolition went on for hours, women, children, youths and men were seen running helter-skelter to gather their properties. An elderly woman in Akochi’s compound was almost buried in one of the demolished building but for the quick intervention of some residents who quickly carried her out of the shambles. Some of the elderly women who wept uncontrollably, also rained abusive words on government officials that demolished the houses. As the news of the demolition spread to the villages, some Secondary School children immediately absconded from their classrooms with some friends in a bid to rescue their properties. Even widows were not left out of the saga as they wondered how they could build a new house since they were the breadwinners of their family. Many of them lamented that government didn’t compensate on their lands before the demolition adding that they were forced out of their ancestral homes without prior notice. Reacting, the Ebonyi state government said that it had since concluded the enumeration and paid compensation to over 70 percent of those displaced at the Ebonyi Airport project situated in Ezza North local government area of the state. In an interview with LEADERSHIP yesterday, the special adviser to Governor David Umahi on Airport Project, Mr Joseph Nwobashi, said that the houses recently demolished by the state government has been enumerated and the compensation fees were made available by the state government. He stated that the local government area in partnership with some traditional rulers in the area had mapped out portions of land for the resettlement of the displaced persons adding that within the week, the land would be divided among the displaced persons with other amenities made available for their comfort. According to him, “Government through the ministry of Land has enumerated the places involved and money has been given to the ministry to compensate the people. “They have been called to come and take the money, some collected, some have not. They are being deceived by those who took government to court. Our people have told them to withdraw the case and stop fighting government. “Our people, with the traditional rulers have mapped out lands for their relocation and they have been asked to come and take their money and move into the land. “The houses that were demolished falls along the runway and the tarmac, which is the major work we are doing now.” 