A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, (APC), Chief Francis Inegbeneki’s residence came under attack as suspected assassins invaded his house in the early hours of yesterday. Vehicles parked within the premises were riddled with bullets, while window louvers were shattered in the attack. Inegbeneki, who was not around however described the attack on his residence as a rude shock. “Frankly, I am short of words, it must have been politically motivated. After this successful political rally, I am going to Benin to assess the damage,” he said. Inegbeneki recalled that only recently the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, has been threatening to deal with those opposed to him. He, however, warned that “ those drumming music of war they should be prepared to dance to the music.” Inegbeneki called on President Muhammadu Buhari, to rescue the people from the hands of Obaseki and his deputy, adding that, “Edo is under siege.” This development came as the leaders of the party unanimously agreed that the second term governorship ticket of Governor Godwin Obaseki, was a privilege and not a right even as they condemned what they referred to as  high handedness of the governor on members of the party. The party leaders stated this in Opoji, Esan West local government area at a rally where hundreds of former members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led by the former state chairman of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), Prince Tony Omoaghe, former speaker, Bright Omokhodion, Festus Ebea and their supporters. The rally attracted leaders of the APC from the state including all the governorship aspirants. In his remarks, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu said, “They told us in Benin that this rally will not hold, they said many things will happen but as we were coming, the road was good. “But you know these people are cowards, early this morning at about 3 am, they went to Chief Inegbeneki and threw hand bombs. The first one did not detonate, the second one detonated. “If somebody had died, I don’t know what they would have said.We have been keeping quiet not because we are afraid, but because  we own the house. Obaseki said he would destroy the Edo APC, but we would not allow him,” Ize-Iyamu said. On his part, Major General Charles Airhiavbere (rtd), stated that “Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones because the glasses will be shattered.” Saturday Uwelekhue on his part said Governor Godwin Obaseki “cannot take his second term ambition as a right, it is only a privilege and we have said we will not give it to him.”