The director general of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) Mr. Alex Okoh yesterday said the agency would generate N266,852,072,505 as revenue to the federal government account in 2020. The DG said the funds will be generated through privatisation of some national assets. The BPE boss said the planned privatisation programme will affect nine assets under the energy sector with a net revenue target of N268.3 billion and an operational cost of N2.1 billion. “The 2020 budget is about N10.5 trillion with about N2.1 trillion deficits. So, we need to be more creative in revenue generation to improve public infrastructure,’’ Mr. Okoh disclosed during a media briefing in Abuja yesterday. He also said that government will explore collaborative solutions to resolve issues affecting performance of most of the privatised national assets. By that, Okoh added that the government will not re-nationalising already privatized national assets. Okoh said the BPE also plans to execute three projects under Infrastructure and Public Private Partnership (I&PPP) department  at the cost of N626.2 million but no revenue. The aim is to increase federal government’s revenue from both sales proceeds and tax receipts from the privatised enterprises, Okoh said. “The objective is also to inject privatisation proceeds into micro-economic activities.  There will be growth in real GDP resulting from increase in manufacturing and production of goods and services following availability of needed utilities and infrastructure, among others.’’ “Broadening of share ownership in the country through divestitures. Growth in employment indices through continuous conversion of the high public: private ratio of the country’s labour force to a high private: public ratio”, he said. The BPE DG who noted that the population would reach the projected double figure of between 380 and 400 million people, said to access the requisite revenue, “we as a bureau need to look outside the traditional oil revenue. Look at how we can convert assets to liquidity.” Okoh advised that a collaborative solution be sought involving all players in the power sector to foster steady power supply in the country, instead of the call for revocation of the assets in the sector. Okoh said the electricity target for Nigeria was 7,000 megawatts by the end of 2021 and 11,000 megawatts by 2023. Okoh blamed the delay in privatising of the Bank of Agriculture (BOA) on what he called complexities of the transaction. He said the bank has suffered perennial mismanagement that needs to be carefully cleaned up. “It has been poorly managed and we underestimated the enormity of the challenges. It has a negative shareholders fund of N35 billion and non-performing loan of  N97 billion and you cannot recover from such. To set up a brand-new outfit, what you need is N15 billion capital”. “So. should we put more money to revitalize BOA? It has properties, branches. So, we plan that in the new privatisation arrangement, CBN will own 20%, the Ministry of Agriculture 20%, farmers’ union 40% and core investors 20%. That’s our proposition. It has been a tortuous journey for us. We are talking with CBN to see if it can write off the NPL and we can correct negative shareholders, so we can fix it. We decided that whatever it’s worth, we should keep BOA rather than starting off a new bank.” “We hope we will do that this year. If you were doing a pure business decision, you won’t go that route but it’s a national asset and it requires a haircut by CBN”, he explained. The BPE Boss said the usual pushbacks from MDAs is responsible for delay in privatising the Bank of Agriculture (BOA), “But we have addressed that via aggressive stakeholders’ engagement”, he stated.