The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) alongside its joint venture partners have spent $360 million on cleaning up the Niger Delta oil devastation in the past two years. NNPC and its joint venture partners of Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), Total Exploration and Production of Nigeria (TEPNG) and Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) “have disbursed $360 million towards the Ogoniland clean-up project,” group managing director of the NNPC Mele Kyari told the National Assembly. Kyari, represented by NNPC chief operating officer for Upstream, Roland Ewubare, said the $360 million was out of the total $900 million recommended by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). He said NNPC and its partners were ready to fund the project as prescribed by the UNEP report. He decried the misinformation about the Ogoniland clean-up and urged the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP) to ensure that the narrative was corrected for the effective implementation of the project. A member of the House of Representatives’ Committee who was a former Minister of Environment, Hon. Aishatu Jibrin Dukku, applauded the NNPC and its JV partners for their commitment to the Ogoni clean-up project and urged all other stakeholders to join hands with HYPREP to ensure the successful clean-up of the area. In his remarks, chairman of the House Committee on Environment and Habitat, Hon. Johnson Oghuma, expressed the commitment of the current leadership to ensure the full implementation of the UNEP Report on Ogoniland for the common good of the people. It would be recalled that the UNEP Report on Ogoniland clean-up had estimated an initial costs of $1billion for the first five years of a 25 to 30-year process.  But a number of locals questioned the impact of the operation. “What they are touting as a cleanup is substandard,” Christian Kpandei, a fish farmer whose land was polluted, said in an interview with Reuters. Morris Alagoa, of the Environmental Rights Action (ERA) campaign group, said he had seen little activity since the operation began. “I can’t say those handling the cleanup have actually started real work,” he said. But a photograph seen by Reuters taken in the last few weeks in Bodo, which sits in Ogoniland, showed men wearing overalls and hard hats beside boats, suggesting some activity. A spokesman for NNPC said the company and its partners merely distribute funds, which they have done. Oil sales account for around 90 per cent of Nigeria’s foreign currency earnings but oil spills in the southern Niger Delta region have caused pollution and angered locals.