The attorney-generals of the six south-west states have concluded legal framework that would be presented as bills in each state to legalise the Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed Operation Amotekun. They agreed in the meeting held in Ibadan yesterday that each of the south-west states; Oyo, Ogun, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti and Lagos would have its own legislation and its own security network operatives which would bear the name, Amotekun Corps. The meeting which started around 7pm and lasted for about three hours behind closed doors, was also attended by the officials of the Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission, who were led by the director-general, Mr Seye Oyeleye. The attorney-generals at the meeting include, Prof Oyelowo Oyewo, Oyo; Mr Oluwafemi Akande , Osun; Mr Olawale Fapohunda , Ekiti; Mr Adekola Olawole, Ondo; Mr Akingbolahan Adeniran, Ogun and Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo ,Lagos, who was represented by the state’s director of civil litigation, Mr S. A Quadri. Speaking with newsmen after the meeting in company of the other attorney- generals, Prof. Oyewo denied insinuations of any political meaning to the reason the meeting could not hold on Thursday as scheduled. “Logistics and the challenges of the office of attorney-generals in the various south-west states necessitated the change in the meeting day,”he explained. Giving details of the legal framework, Oyewole noted that the bill would be sent to the various state houses of assembly after it has been seen by the state executive councils(SEC) of the respective states. He said the operational details and structural procedures of the security outfit would be uniform across the six states, to allow for collaboration amongst the states. Oyewo reiterated that the security outfit would complement the existing security structure in the country. He said Amotekun would be using the local intelligence, expressing optimism that the bill would not take too long before being passed into law by the respective states. “The meeting of the attorney-generals of the six south-west states just concluded and we deliberated on the plan to evolve a collaborative security network/agency in the region. “We have been able to come up with a legal framework to back the establishment of such a security network in each of the states. “So each of the states will have its own legislation and its own security network corp that will bear the name, Amotekun Corps,” he said.