The minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu has called on foreign investors to take advantage of Nigeria’s Methanol Policy to invest in the country. Speaking on “Africa’s employment Perspective Towards 2040” at German Development Institute yesterday in Bonn, Germany, Dr. Onu said Nigeria wants both local and foreign entrepreneurs and investors in the private sector to invest in methanol production in the country. Onu appealed to investors to invest in Nigeria, citing the new investment-friendly visa policy and significant improvement in the ease of doing business as incentives to foreign investors. “Nigerian businessmen and women are showing keen interest in investing in this project, therefore all prospective investors coming into the country will have willing partners to do business with,” he said. According to him, the methanol fuel production technology was a strategy employed by the Nigerian government to diversify its economy based on natural gas reserves, thus reducing the country’s reliance on crude oil reserves. He said that since the world has reduced its reliance on crude oil and emphasis is now being made on cleaner and renewable energy, this policy is important for Nigeria to remain relevant in exporting natural gas. Nigeria, according to Dr. Onu, has the ninth largest natural gas reserves in the world, which is estimated to be over 200 trillion standard cubic feet. The new national policy on Methanol Fuel Production Technology, he explained, is to provide the enabling policy framework for value-addition to the natural gas resources, increase in midstream gas investment and expansion of chemical industries value-chain. He further said that the effective implementation of the new policy would improve the standard of living of Nigerians. “It will help create new jobs for both the young and the old as well as create wealth for both individuals and the nation while still protecting the environment,” he added. He also said that methanol can be used as feedstock for several useful products and could serve as alternatives to kerosene and firewood. Onu stressed the need for African countries to increase investment in research and development, science, education, technology and innovation in order to reap maximum benefits from the new international economic order characterised by oil price volatility, globalisation, climate change and new technologies. In a statement by the ministry’s head of press and public relations unit, Abdulganiyu Aminu, the minister said the way to go is for African countries to adopt a knowledge and innovation- driven economy through massive public and private investments in research and development.