Chief Chekwas Okorie is the national chairman of  the defunt United Progressive Party (UPP). In this interview with MBACHU GODWIN, he speaks on the recent deregistration of political parties and other national issues. Your party is among the 74 political parties deregistered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) did it come to you as a surprise? Whichever way you look at it or the court will look at it, it is a disservice. The Constitution is very clear on freedom of association, if the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has registered political parties, does it have the power to deregister same political parties? I say no.  Although there is a provision in the Electoral Act which does not supercede the Constitution that specifies a number of things parties will do and if it falls to do it will not be registered. For example, a party should have a functional national secretariat and national executives in all the states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory to represent federal character. The United Progressive Party (UPP) met all these conditions. We rank 5th in parties that had the best national secretariat and INEC came and ratified all of these things. On the verification day, 29 executives officers of the party were in attendance despite the short notice when the INEC officials came. Now on the requirement of ward chairmanship or councilor seat in any local government , 30 out of 36 states have not conducted local government elections. Enugu State is going to conduct local government election on February 29  and our candidates have been screened and ready to go only for INEC to come up with this that caused confusion in the party and state. The same INEC said it will register 200 political parties that have already applied, so what sense does it make that parties that have existed for many years will be deregistered, UPP has existed for eight years and you register new ones that will be learning the ropes, it defiles every logic. I don’t think it is INEC’s preoccupation. The preoccupation is there should be a legal framework to conduct credible election which the present INEC has failed to do. They announced in the last election that 35 per cent of Nigerian’s participated , that means 65 per cent registered voters did not vote and participate.  Is the deregistration of political parties solve the problem? Inter Party Advisory Council (IPAC) which your party belongs to last year gave INEC a clean bill of health in it’s activities and conduct of the last general election. How do you reconcile your position on INEC with that of IPAC ? That is the point I am trying to make, the same IPAC is the one complaining, although it cannot sue as a body but individual political parties have done so. Every leadership has its approach. I want to focus on the issue at hand. I can tell you that the same IPAC chairman is involved. I don’t want to talk on IPAC giving INEC chairman, Prof Mamood Yakubu clean bill of health but on the issue at hand. Will your party challenge INEC’s decision in the court? We have not taken a decision yet whether to challenge it or not. This thing just happened and we have reached ourselves to have a meeting at the party national secretariat next week and take a decision on it. Some parties have already taken theirs. Will your decision involve collapsing the party into one of the existing major parties? That amounts to preempting me and the party. Like I said earlier it is not a decision I will make, the party’s National Executive Committee will meet and take final decision on the situation and the way forward for our party. You said INEC had no power to deregister parties but it has argued that the amendment to the constitution gave it power to proscribe the 74 parties, what do you make of that? For a party to be considered not to win election in the local government in the 2019 election, if you are using 2019 and you did not consider that 30 out of 36 states have not conducted local government election then something is wrong. So that is why some parties have gone to court to challenge it because there are no elections over the years at the local government level to determine whether a party has met that requirement or not. Do you think INEC was hasty in its decision to sack the 74 parties considering that the matter is pending in court? It amounts to subjudise. The matter is in the court and judgement is not given and you went ahead to undermine the court. I am aware there will be a ruling on February 18, so INEC decided to jump the gun, so that is left for the court to respond to, it shows that INEC is up to something and that is very unhealthy for our democracy. They are aware that judgement is pending and they jump the gun as if they  already know the judgement or have the idea of the judgement. It is a problem where they make the judicary irrelevant as if their intervention and pronoucement does not matter anymore, putting the judiciary in an awkward position. INEC said that most of the parties are mushroom and briefcase political parties, isn’t this true? No, for UPP that’s not true. They came to our secretariat at Abuja and saw that we have maintained one of the finest national secretariat, it is not a room and palour thing, it is a whole duplex , where we hold our meeting. We don’t hire hall or chairs. We have been holding our meetings regularly and we are in 32 states of the federation as required by law. So, if after meeting these requirements you tag it mushroom party that is their own opinion. Minority leader of the Senate, Sen Enyinaya Abariba recently called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign having failed to secure lives and property,  do you share that view? Sen Abaribe is leader of the opposition in the Senate. What he has done is what we call political posturing, he knows how to ask president to go, it is to initiate an impeachment process rather than doing what he did. He took a position of grandstanding than due process, but will that lead to anywhere, I can tell you no. The Peoples Democratic party (PDP) has not lived up to expectations in terms of opposition. PDP has not exhibited opposition since it found itself in opposition. PDP did not prepare for that opposition. They thought that they will come back to power for a brief period in 2019. The PDP knows what to do if they are serious about that and not to ask the president to resign. Look at what happened in the United States, they did not ask Trump to resign. Abaribe’s call is grandstanding and grandstanding is not opposition. I have been in opposition for a long time, opposition is a lonely road, look at what is happening to PDP in Imo State where APC in the last election did not win one seat with PDP legislators less than one month relocating to APC now having 17 seats to form majority. So PDP opposition is not credible, I know what I  talking about.