The minister of environment, Dr Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar has pledged to support the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA) in the discharge of its duties and in fulfilment of its mandate. Abubakar stated this when the DG/CEO of NBMA, Dr Rufus Ebegba presented him the certificate of merit/award bestowed on NBMA during the international Customs day. He lauded Ebegba for his dedication and passion on biosafety issues, just as he commended the officers of the agency for standing by the DG/CEO in ensuring that the mandate of the agency is achieved, According to him, “This award is well deserved as good things come to those who are willing to make sacrifices to reach a worthwhile goal. Dr Ebegba has distinguished himself as a man who is passionate about the growth and development of Nigeria and for the Nigeria Customs Service to have deemed it fit to confer on him this award, then he is truly deserving”. Responding, Ebegba thanked the minister for the privilege and dedicated the award to Nigeria and Nigerians, pledging to ensure that the mandate of the agency is fulfilled. Meanwhile the NBMA has commenced training for the staff of its newly created Biosafety Intelligence unit on the workings of the unit in other to equip them to discharge their duties properly. Ebegba who spoke at the opening ceremony, urged the staff of the special unit to uphold the mandate of the agency and be good ambassadors of the country. He noted that it was important to train the staff, as capacity building is essential for the proper running of the agency in ensuring that its mandate is achieved. “The issue of Biosecurity has become very important globally and it’s important for the Biosafety intelligence unit of the agency to be well equipped on issues of bio-risk and security” Recall that in 2019, that President Muhammadu Buhari assented to a bill to amend the NBMA act 2015 to include the regulation of new and emerging areas of Biotechnology. The newly amended law led to the creation of a special unit called the Biosafety Intelligence Unit and a department called the Biosecurity department. 