LAPO Microfinance Bank has said it plans to increase its loans to customers by more than 11 per cent from N153 billion which it recorded last year to N170 billion by the end of 2020 as it grows its deposit base by 30 per cent. Founder and pioneer managing director of the MFB, Dr. Godwin Ehigiamuso said the bank plans to increase its loans this year as it raises cheaper fund from deposits. “As a financial intermediation institution, what we do is to take deposit by the left and give it out by the right as loans. “So definitely we would see increase in loans. But what is important is that we see over time that if we are able to mobilise enough deposit which obviously are cheaper that could also translate to lower interest rate for our clients. We did N153 billion in loans last year and we hope that we will be able to go above N170 billion this year.” Speaking on the outlook for the micro-finance bank sector this year, he said “the outlook is not going to be significantly different from what we had in 2019. We see technology playing a major role most institutions will likely launch their technology products. “I also see the intervention by the CBN especially the fact that even commercial banks are encouraged to provide loans to SME that may also change the dynamics in the microfinance sector. It is not going to be so much negative. What is likely to happen is that it will make more MFBs to be more innovative. “Ordinary people especially women do not have access to finance especially from very formalized institutions like commercial banks, and that was the reason in microfinance practice started. So it is unfortunate that the situation despite the efforts that have been made that many people especially at the bottom end of the economy do not have full access to financial services. “We hope that with all interventions at national and local level that will be changing. I do know that with the efforts of institutions like ours, more women are now having access to institutional credit they are able to do their business, increase their level of productivity and invariably they will also be able to improve the conditions for living for members of their household.” On growing savings culture amongst Nigerians, Ehigiamuso said, “Savings culture has to do with a lot of things, I strongly believe that we are a bit emotive when it comes to decision making and for people to be able to first of all state their budget at every point in time and therefore determine what they really need over what they want. “Once we are able to do that, I think people will begin to set some money aside. But I think what is more important is that there should be availability of instruments or schemes that are presented to people presenting opportunities’ for them to save. “We do know that our people save and we know that in very remote communities they do not have opportunity to do so. Some of them as we do say keep their money under their mattresses but with products like this, the level of our savings culture will improve.”