Following motor cycle/tricycle restriction, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has recommended an urgent stakeholder engagement to fine tune the traffic law and enforcement strategies. In a release to LEADERSHIP, the director-general of LCCI, Muda Yusuf said that one of the biggest challenges of urbanisation is traffic congestion and this is more so in a state like Lagos which has the largest population and the smallest land size in the country. He noted that the growth in the number of vehicles has consistently outpaced the road capacity, saying that “We also recognise the increasing traffic and security nuisance that some of the commercial motorcycles and tricycles create in the state and these call for drastic action by the government.” However, he said that it is important to situate the conversation within the context of a Root Cause Analysis.   According to Yusuf, the proliferation of the commercial motorcycles and tricycles in Lagos state are manifestation of the shortcomings of the transportation system in Lagos state and are symptoms of deeper issues in the transport ecosystem. He stated that there are fundamental issues the state needs to fix in order to achieve a sustainable solution.  “The enforcement of the traffic law in its current form would have a profound social, economic and political costs. “Commuters would suffer untold hardship as there is no immediate alternative to fill the gap which the wide-ranging restriction would create. “There would be high transportation cost as commuter buses hikes their fares and they would naturally take advantage of the surge in demand. “There is also the investment effect on emerging innovative investments in the commercial motorbike sector some of which have invested billions of naira in the sector. “Connectivity of domestic economic agents would suffer a deceleration.  The tempo and momentum of economic activities would experience a slow down as the velocity of business transactions would be adversely affected.  This would also take a toll on the huge and vibrant informal economy in the state and there will also be massive extortion by enforcement agents,” he said. The Chamber recommended an urgent stakeholder engagement to fine tune the traffic law and enforcement strategies.   He also said that the current wide-ranging routes covered by the restriction should be reviewed to cover only major road corridors as this would give some room for the ordinary citizens to commute. “The tolerance and latitude for operation of tricycles should be expanded as they play vital complementary roles to other forms of transportation as they are affordable, scalable, divisible, flexible and less of a nuisance than the motorbikes. “Regulatory capacity should be strengthened to ensure traffic discipline among all categories of road users,” he added.