The Presidency has cautioned a section of the political class against misleading the public and inciting protests against the heads of military institutions. According to a statement by presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, this has become necessary in view of received reports that about 2000 men and women had been hired to demonstrate against Nigeria’s service chiefs on Monday. He said this imminent gathering was the latest in a series of demonstrations orchestrated by the opposition to embarrass the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. According to him, “As part of this overall scheme, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with its belligerent politics, has been marching from one embassy to the other in protest against the Buhari administration and the nation’s highest court of justice, the supreme court. “They are keen to give the impression that Nigerians are in support of them as they take to the streets, and they will go to any length to promote this false narrative. “The recent incident in Maiduguri, Borno State, where an overwhelmingly cheering crowd gathered to welcome President Buhari, while a handful were recorded booing him, is a part this elaborate scheme. It is misleading, as some analysts have tried to do, to read this as verdict against President Buhari, who emerged winner with 94 per cent of the votes cast in the presidential election in the state in February last year. Stating that this was clearly a rented crowd, he said, “ but the news was promoted by the opposition who had of course positioned themselves to record the booing – all just to embarrass the president.” The presidential spokesman urged the media to remain unbiased and discerning in their reporting, instead of becoming tools in the hands of the opposition. He further explained that a group of politicians and beneficiaries of the Boko Haram insurgency was right now paying for people to join their planned protest against the country’s service chiefs, adding that they would no doubt seek the media’s collaboration on the issue. “But there is news and there is promoted content – two very different things, one of which should never make the headlines as these recent fake protests have done,” he added. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has denied the allegations.The party  asked  the Buhari presidency to face its self-inflicted ordeal and address what it described as the “consensus concern of Nigerians over its poor handling of security issues” instead of seeking to blame the opposition and the media. The PDP described threats and allegations by the Buhari presidency, that the opposition was sponsoring a protest against the heads of military institutions, as derisory, self-indicting, diversionary and further showed the confusion that pervades the Buhari presidency in the face of discontentment by Nigerians. The party in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, alerted that the Buhari presidency was now trying to divert attention by blackmailing the media and opposition because it can no longer face Nigerians over its manifest failure to deal with those behind acts of insurgency, terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and escalated violence under its watch. “It is clear to all, including even the Buhari presidency that Nigerians across board, have been in protest against the Buhari-led APC administration and need nobody to mobilise them to publicly exercise their constitutionally guaranteed rights any day to register their discontentment against a failed administration that has continued to live on propaganda, excuses and denials. “Moreover, the PDP restates that its demand that the security high command should be rejigged to inject new blood to effectively tackle our security challenges; a position that has become a consensus opinion of all other patriotic individuals and groups, including the two chambers of the national assembly, is well known within and outside our country,” the party said.