Septuagenarian Eje Vincent Ada worked at the Ministry of Maintenance Affairs in the Department of National Civil Registration, which is presently the National Identity Management Commission and retired in 2006. He shares his experience with JULIET KUYET BULUS When and where were you born? I was born at Aidogodo Okpoga in Benue State on the 8 November, 1947. How do you know that was the time of your birth? Schools came in newly as at the time then one of my father’s brother who was educated kept all our records. So, the date, month and year of birth are accurate. Life growing up My father was a good farmer, he had palm trees, coconut trees, Ogbono tree as well. He was the richest in all of Okpoga and a polygamist married to 12 wives with children. My mother was the third wife and she died as soon as she had me and I was taken away to be raised by my grandmother who took proper care of me, gave me all I wanted. Growing up as a child, I would always fall sick and there was a time, my grandmother took me to my father’s brother who bears same name as me. At a point they thought of burying me alive as they claimed I would not survive the sickness but God had a plan and he delivered me. My late mother as told by my aunty appeared to her in a dream and told her the sickness was over. She left my aunty with instructions on how to visit her grave site, pick a flower there to grind and give me to chew. Since then, I have not fallen sick. I later left my grandmother’s house to go stay with my father at the age of 11. Since I didn’t have a mother, I was left with a void. Some of my father’s wives treated me well and some didn’t but whenever my father felt we were not treated right, he would advise we cook whatever we wanted to eat and sometimes he would give us his food without eating. I have three siblings from the same mother. In loving his children, my father was also strict when it came to discipline and he never wanted any of his children roaming about unnecessarily, and we could only visit neighbours when we were sent on errands. He believed children who were found wandering lacked proper home training. This shaped me to become who I am and he did a good job. Despite the fact that my father is not alive today, we as a family are living in harmony. As siblings from different mothers, we never engaged in fist fights and besides, if we wanted to, my father would tell us to fight without interference from anyone and whoever is beaten would not want to engage in such act next time. My father’s wives also lived together without fighting, everyone went about their business. Schools were not many then, and those who attended were seen as slaves. While staying with my grandmother I went on errands and farm. Which institution and or schools did you attend? I attended St. Theresa Catholic School Aidogodo and I was invited by a friend to travel down to Kaduna State. After that I went for selection to join the Nigerian Army 45battalion in Kaduna and I was employed. I was given the uniform and was registered. My friend asked why I joined the army. While I was there, my uncle and some family members paid me a visit, and I was summoned. They told me they did not like my decision to join the army. I was asked if I had someone who could replace me, but I didn’t have anyone to present, so I left the army. While living with my uncle and his wife, I did an aptitude test at a British owned company known as Crittall Hope. I was among those that were successful and I was employed. The test was on Mathematics and English Language. We were immediately sent to Technical School Malali Kaduna for secondary education and we ended up staying for a year and six months. From there we were given papers for completion of studies, and we went back to resume work at the company. My friend did a lot for me, so when I was paid salary, I handed over the money to him but he instead decided to get me some basic things. He said I would need a house of my own, as I kept receiving salary monthly, he advised we got a mattress, chair and other things. He ended up paying part of my rent as I moved to a place of my own. We were later told that there were no raw materials for work and that they needed to down size. Crittall Hope started the aluminium business in Nigeria and was into making doors, windows among other things. Things were moving well back then as over 3000 doors were made in a day but business later went low due to a lack of raw materials and 107 employees lost their jobs. I was also affected. We were paid our gratuity. Since I had nothing keeping me in Kaduna, I told my wife there was need for relocating to Benue State but we eventually settled in Abuja after I secured a job with the Ministry of Maintenance Affairs in the department of National Civil Registration which is now known as the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC)where I worked as the Head of Security for 18 years. When did you start work and at what age? It was the same year I left the village and I was 20 years old at the time. Life in service I gained lots of experience working with the Ministry of Maintenance as I was in charge of everything security. I ensured my colleagues complied with the rules and regulations as well as did their jobs effectively. I became an exemplary leader for all to follow, not just in performing my duties but in making sure I dressed smartly to work. There was an instance where we were summoned by our superior and I was called out and used as an example of how one ought to dress when coming to work. I was even awarded the best dressed and others were also told to emulate how I nob my tie and tucked in my shirt. I have always believed in putting your heart to do any job, not minding if one is monitoring or not. Then, we earned little but with the upbringing from my father of blessed memory I learnt to save money no matter how little. From my savings, I was able to buy a plot of land in Karimo and developed it. But during President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration, we were asked to vacate our house as it was marked for demolition. Other parts of Abuja were affected, places like Asokoro, Wuse were included. This led to the death of many because of the loss of their properties. I and my late wife decided to buy a land at Oke. One fateful day, I was shocked when I went to the bank after been told salaries had been paid, and on getting there I saw money above my monthly pay and I had to go straight to the office to tell the Chief Accountant I was overpaid. I was later made to realize that, the money was mine as the ministry paid its workers their three years overtime that had been withheld. I was paid N250,000. We eventually bought the land and gradually built on it with the little I earned monthly. These days I get to hear people say they are unable to save due to the responsibilities they have, but as someone who was able to thrive, I believe when they make saving a priority, no matter how little, they will in the end meet certain needs or achieve dreams. There was a time security personnel took generator and camera. A driver once carted away nine drums of diesel and he was apprehended in Asokoro, the Chief Administration called me and told me. How is life in retirement? I was retired in 2006 after serving as Head of Security for 18 years. I use my handset to make calls, sometimes use my motorcycle, I also depend on rents from tenants. Challenges encountered while growing up and at work? I didn’t enjoy my youth due to the absence of my mother. I also worsened my life when I left my grandmother’s place for my father’s. She never wanted to see or hear me cry and whenever I did, she would ask what I wanted and she would give it to me. I left her place because I beat up my maternal cousin and was afraid of been reprimanded by his mother. So I ran back to my father’s house. I stopped school because I had work to do on the farm and whenever I was away, they left my share of the farm work undone till I got back. My father could no longer keep up with paying school fees, so I had to leave for Kaduna in 1967. There were people in the civil service who did not want to see one progress, some will intentionally refuse to come to work, some others will go as far as sabotaging the work just to implicate me. Regrets in life? I had interest in education and I feel if I had gone further, I would have reached the top. When did you get married? I got married in 1968 and she died on November 3, 2017. How and where did you meet your wife? I met her in the village at an event where she was dancing. I introduced myself, asked about her family and told a friend from her village about my desire to marry her. I went ahead to buy kolanut, hand it over to her father and told him to keep her for me. She had suitors but I eventually paid the bride price and married her. My wife was calculative when it came to spending money and I doubt there is anyone like her. We usually prayed and fasted together. Children I was blessed with six girls and four boys, but the three sons have passed away, and the eldest son left behind two children. Five of my daughters are married and the last of them is a graduate currently undergoing mandatory National Youth Corps Service (NYSC) in Ekiti State. I tried getting her a job through the Federal Civil Service Commission but was not possible. She now works with an NGO and gets to travel by air. How would you compare life during your time with what exists today? When I was young, we would do as we were told without complaints and we would gladly do it. But today, the world is quite different and this for me is because civilization has crept into our country. Youth have become lazy and grumble at errands and they go as far as telling a parent or elder to send someone else in their place. Many cry of unemployment in the country, and I know of some who have these jobs and always complain about been exhausted from work and I believe some of the unemployed if given the opportunity to work, they will still complain. Hard work pays and it did for me even though I might not be rich, I have gotten more rewards from God. Morality has gone extinct. Those days a woman dared not visit a man she intended to marry, and could not even cohabit with him as it is done today. So also, a man understood and knew what needed to be done to have a woman become his wife. A woman could only visit her fiancé in company of a friend or brother with permission from her parents. Whenever I am opportune to talk to the people around me, who engage in such acts, all they tell me is that this day is very different from what it was during my time but to me since we are still on earth, nothing has changed when it comes to decency and morality. I usually tell my children to bring home whoever they want to settle down with in order to avoid living a promiscuous life. Jobs were everywhere in the 80s unlike today when people become graduates from various institutions of learning and are yet to secure a job. On 1st October, 1960 where were you and what was the day like? It was filled with joy and jubilation from all corners. We were given flags as part of the celebration. Have your hopes at Independence been met? The country is not where it used to be and certainly not where we want it to be. Then, we could go to the market with as little as N50 and go back home with lots of thing but today, with N500 we cannot even get half of what we used to buy those good old days. The times of Tafawa Balewa, Ahmadu Bello, Obafemi Awolowo and Nnamdi Azikiwe were good days. How can government assist the elderly in the society? They cannot assist me and I would advise anyone who cares to listen, not to depend on the government. The best they can do is give a loan which will definitely be taken back when the time comes. Advice for the younger generation Live responsibly and plan for the future. Invest in something that will give you profit. Listen to instructions from parents, work on them to avoid regrets.