Last week, the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) commenced its congresses ahead of the party’s primary election to produce its candidate for the state’s governorship election billed to hold this year. PATRICK OCHOGA writes on the rumble within the party as it elects a new leadership at the state level ahead of the poll. There is no gainsaying the fact that the leadership of the Edo state PDP at the moment is excited over the festering crisis between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). To many observers, it is the best time and the surest opportunity for the opposition party to retake and occupy the Osadebey Avenue, the state’s seat of power if the party puts its house in order. Political pundits are of the view that for the PDP to reap from the current crisis in Edo APC, it must produce a credible and popular governorship candidate that can wrestle power from the APC. Aspirants, who are gunning for the PDP ticket, are Kenneth Imansuagbon, Dr. Ifaluyi Isibor, Gideon Ikhine and Hon. Omoregie Ogbeide Ihama. The build-ups to produce it governorship candidate commenced last week with the party’s congresses across the 192 wards. The ward congress however recorded skirmishes and violence in some areas as stakeholders resisted attempt by some party leaders to allegedly smuggle in list of officials that would eventually do their biddings at the governorship primary election. The state chairman of the PDP, Dan Orbih, was accused by some aspirants of working towards the emergence of Hon. Ogbeide Ihama as the PDP candidate in the state. Recall that Orbih had during the party’s sensitization tour of local government areas, said the party would eventually settle for the candidacy of a younger candidate as the PDP flag-bearer. “Our young party members have brilliant ideas to pilot the affairs of the state. Our governorship aspirants are a young crop of people. I can tell you that in Edo 2020 election, PDP willproduce a young governorship candidate,” Orbih stated this in Etsako Central. Given the above statement of the state party chairman, many party chieftains have deduced that he is referring to Ogbeide Ihama, who is currently a member of the House of Representatives representing Oredo federal constituency. This is because Ogbeide-Ihama is also perceived to be having the backing of Orbih and he appears to be the latter’s preferred choice of a younger candidate to fly the party’s flag at the governorship poll. This development has made some of the aspirants uncomfortable. Hon. Ifaluyi Isibor, a former member of the House of Representatives, who is also from Edo South senatorial district, had argued that the choice of a younger candidate may be counter-productive, adding that states where younger persons are serving as governors are not faring well. “It depends on what he meant by a younger candidate. It is his own wish to be given to a younger candidate. We can see what is happening in Kogi State where Yahaya Bello is turning everywhere to be something else. Nobody is proud of what is happening in Kogi. It is good to use young people in certain areas but not governance of Edo state in particular. “It is not yet time for a young person, a greenhorn without experience. We still know our value, we still know what to say. Age is a figure. We are looking for those who can perform. If you have a Methuselah as governor of Edo and everywhere is peaceful and progressing, why not when compared to having a young person and nobody can go out. “I am sure Orbih was quoted out of context. If you ask him again, he will change his voice,” Isibor said. At the last week ward congresses, allegations and counter-allegations of written lists of wards officials and other irregularities were reported in some wards. For example, a former lawmaker in the State House of Assembly, Hon. Slyvanus Erauga, was beaten to a pulp at his Afashio community during the conduct of the congress At ward 6, Oredo local government area, gunmen shot into the air sporadically to scare away party members after a disagreement over a list of consensus ward executives. Trouble started when some leaders produced a list, saying the leaders had agreed the previous night on it but opponents to the list insisted on electing the executives democratically. While in ward 7 of same Oredo local government area, party faithful waited till 2pm but the electoral officials did not show up for the exercise. An aspirant for the party chairmanship position, Engr. Fred Okah, said the tension generated with the absence of electoral officials could have led to violence. His words: “INEC officials and security personnel were present but the party officials to conduct the election did not come. We waited from 9am till 2pm we didn’t see the officials. So, there was no congress in ward 7.” Another PDP leader, Hon. Oladele Bankole-Balogun, described the ward congresses as a sham and mess, alleging that there were instructions to conduct parallel congresses in certain areas. A governorship aspirant, who pleaded anonymity, said the whole process was ‘rubbish’ and a plot by the outgoing state chairman, Chief Orbih, to have his way of installing his successor. Meanwhile, the chairman of the Edo State PDP Congresses, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, has expressed optimism in spite of the internal wrangling of the party, saying the Edo PDP stands the chance of winning the forthcoming governorship election in the state. “This is electoral committee put together to conduct the ward congress and delegate election for Edo state. This is a process we are starting and it is centered around the people and at the end of the day no matter what people do, it is the people of Edo state that will determine who will be their next governor. “We have been talking to the aspirants and there have been serious engagement sessions since yesterday and we are hopeful that Edo is going to be for PDP in the next election. “We have taken out time to ensure that the process is transparent, free, fair and credible. So, you cannot say a process is not going to end well when it is just taking off. “The opposition and their pessimists will say what they have to say but we have to do what we have to do to give confidence to our party members, the people of Edo state and Nigeria,” Makinde said. For whatever it is, the PDP in Edo state need to do a soul searching exercise to rediscover itself and do away with crises if it wants to be taken serious in the governorship election.    