Recently, the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami, wrote a letter to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State to obey the 2016 Supreme Court verdict against the removal of council chiefs from office. MUYIWA OYINLOLA examines the rising political template in the state and the intended mission of the minister’s letter. On December 9, 2016, the Supreme Court nullified the laws passed by states’ Houses of Assembly which gave their governors power to remove elected local government chairmen and councillors from office and replace them with caretaker or transition committee members. In their unanimous judgement, five justices of the apex court described the dismissal of elected council chairmen as “executive recklessness” which must no longer be allowed. The verdict was given in respect of an appeal filed against the sack of the 16 local government chairmen in Ekiti State by Governor Kayode Fayemi during his first term in office. Since then, several state governments have failed to comply with the judgement as they continue to run the councils with appointed caretakers instead of chairmen. At the last count, 13 states, including Oyo State, which is a recent joiner, have been administering the grassroots government with stooges as their chairmen. The other non-compliant states with the Supreme Court judgement are Borno, Kogi, Katsina, Kwara, Imo, Ogun, and Yobe, which are controlled by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) while the remaining states – Bauchi, Taraba, Benue, Enugu, are held by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). However, Anambra State, which is controlled by the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), also appoints administrators to manage the councils. Overall, seven APC states have not obeyed the apex court’s ruling while five PDP states are also guilty of the same offence, leaving APGA with one. From the above, it is clear that the APC has the highest number of erring states. Curiously, the attorney-general of the federation and minister of justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), only wrote a letter to Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, out of the 13 governors to immediately obey the Supreme Court ruling of 2016. For instance, Borno and Yobe States’ governors have not conducted council elections since 2014 under the guise of insurgency in the states, but they have participated successfully and with a huge voter turnout in the 2015 and 2019 general elections. In the same Northeast zone where insurgency is rife, neighbouring Adamawa State has just conducted council polls, making the excuses of the governors of Yobe and Borno invalid. In the same manner, Katsina State has not held council elections since 2015 when Governor Bello Masari, who has attributed his inability to do so to a suit filed by the PDP against his dissolution of elected council chairmen when he came into office that year. The matter is currently before the Supreme Court. It is against this backdrop that political affairs commentators and other stakeholders have raised posers over Malami’s letter to Governor Makinde of Oyo State to recall sacked council chairmen he inherited from the APC government, which he defeated in the 2019 governorship election on the platform of the PDP. In the letter he wrote to Makinde on January 14, 2020, Malami said that based on the Supreme Court judgement on the matter, which he asserted, was binding on all the 36 states of the federation, “the common practice by some state governors in dissolving elected local government councils is unconstitutional, null and void.” Consequently, he ordered the governor to recall all the sacked APC council chiefs while the inspector- general of police, Mr Mohammed Adamu, was asked to ensure enforcement. On his part, the IGP ordered the Oyo State commissioner of police, Mr Shina Olukolu, to ensure that the reinstatement of sacked officials. In fact, Adamu, in a letter he wrote on January 23, 2020, to the state APC chairman, Chief Akin Oke, asked him to contact Olukolu to carry out Malami’s order. Although some legal luminaries have expressed diverse opinions on the issue, the AGF’s action has been described as draconian and an abuse of the powers conferred on Makinde as governor and chief security officer of the state. No matter the constitutionality or legality of Malami’s action, some lawyers have argued that he ought to have known better that no governor takes directive from him on any matter. Since Malami gave the directive, the rumour mill has also been rife that Makinde is being witch-hunted for the role he played in the formation and inauguration of the Western Nigerian Security Network code named Operation Amotekun in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. There are unconfirmed reports that the chunk of the funds committed into the Amotekun project came from Makinde. Those behind this allegation, claimed that the federal government, in its quest to frustrate the security outfit, believes that the return of the APC council chiefs would do the magic because their loyalty would be to the federal government, which will directly allocate funds to them under the emerging dispensation. They also alleged that it is the conviction of the federal government that once Amotekun fails in Oyo, the APC governors in the region would be wary of it. How logical, reasonable and realistic this line of thought is, will be determined by time and the next action of the central government. Some concerned politicians in the state have also queried why Malami did not extend his letter to Kwara State, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, who upon assumption of office like Makinde on May 29, 2019, suspended the elected 16 local council chairmen in the state from office for six months. Thereafter, Abdulrazaq extended the suspension of the council chairmen, who came into office on the platform of the PDP during the administration of former Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed, indefinitely. His action was based on a resolution by the House of Assembly which alleged financial misconduct against the chairmen. Since Malami wrote the letter to Makinde, all the parties to the crisis, APC and PDP leaders, have been firing from all cylinders, which stoked the fragile political terrain and almost throwing Oyo into a bedlam. The state chapter of the PDP recently added another dimension to the saga when it alleged that “what the present AGF, Abubakar Malami, and his APC cohorts are trying to achieve is purely 2023 political agenda similar to the attempt by former attorney-general of the federation, Mr. Akin Olujimi (SAN), to stop federal allocations meant for Lagos State through executive fiat.” In a statement by its spokesperson, Akeem Olatunji, the PDP declared that the constitution did not empower the Nigerian president or his agents to withhold funds due to a federating unit or even the National Judicial Council (NJC). Olatunji said that “rather than interfere in the internal affairs of Oyo State, Malami should be more concerned about the federal government’s various disregard of judiciary pronouncements and lack of respect for rule of law. “Nigeria as a federation is governed by the constitution and not by a decree/fiat and it’s not anybody’s fault that the drafters of the Nigerian Constitution put the control, legislation and supervision of the local governments under the purview of the state governments through the various state Houses of Assembly. “I want to reiterate that nowhere in the 1999 Constitution is the president or his agents given the power to withhold funds due to states or local government councils or even the National Judicial Council by virtue of the provision of Section 162 subsection (9) thereof. In other words, the president has no supervisory power over the state and the local government councils. “Nigeria as a country is practising federalism, not a unitary system of government, hence the needs for separation of power and avoid ridiculous action that can jeopardise the image of Nigeria within the comity of nations,” he said. Apparently shocked by Malami’s silence on a similar action by the Kwara State government, the state chapter of the PDP on Wednesday wrote a petition to the AGF on the governor’s illegal dissolution and or suspension of the elected council officials in the state. The party, in the petition dated January 28, 2020, said that it was prompted by the position of the justice minister on the illegal dissolution of elected council administrations by some governors across the country. In the petition signed by the PDP state chairman, Kola Shittu, he told the AGF that “on the assumption of office as the executive governor of Kwara State, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq in May 2019, swiftly without recourse to the extant constitutional provisions and judicial pronouncement/decision handed down by the highest court in the land suspended all the duly-elected LG chairmen, vice chairmen and all the 193 councillors in the 16 LGAs in Kwara State on the spurious, baseless, and unfounded allegations of financial misappropriation by the local government chairmen in a purported petition written by a faceless individual.” Shittu, therefore, asked Malami to prevail on Governor AbdulRazaq to immediately reinstate the vice chairmen and the councillors, adding that, “whatever is the said and imaginary offences of the council chairmen, this cannot and should not be visited on their respective vice chairmen and the councillors in all the local government areas across the state who have not been said to have committed any infraction by the virtue of their offices.” Also, the special adviser on strategy and political matters to Makinde, Babatunde Oduyoye, said that Malami’s letter on the matter of the state LGs was subjudice. Oduyoye remarked that as far as the matter is still before the Court of Appeal, nobody is expected to take extra-constitutional measures, except such persons have selfish interests. “The matter is in court and as far as we are concerned, it is subjudice,” he insisted, and averred that Malami has committed an obvious blunder by taking action against the interest of the judiciary and the constitution he is appointed to protect. Oduyoye, a former chief whip of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in the House of Representatives, alleged that Malami’s letter was part of the grand plot to frustrate the Makinde administration from delivering the dividends of democracy to the people of the state. Amidst this crisis, the Oyo State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) has directed its members to stay away from work from last Monday. The directive for the boycott of work was issued by the chairman of the union in the state, Titilola Sodo, after an emergency congress on Saturday at the union secretariat in the Challenge Area of Ibadan. “We have been getting series of disturbing information from all quarters but we don’t know its authenticity, and we have reason to be apprehensive for the safety of our members in case they go to work and there is a clash between the two parties,” Sodo said. However, the Association of Local Government Vice Chairmen of Nigeria (ALGOVC) has endorsed Malami’s action and charged Makinde to comply with the Supreme Court verdict by recall the sacked officials. The association said that the federal government’s action had confirmed his association’s stand against governors’ frequent removal of elected council chairmen and called on lovers of grassroots development to support President Muhammadu Buhari that no council should be run by a caretaker committee. Meanwhile, an Oyo State High Court, Ibadan, on Tuesday restrained the 68 sacked council chairmen and chairmen of local council development areas (LCDAs) from the forceful and illegal takeover of the council offices across the state. The court, headed by Justice Moshud Abass granted the four reliefs sought by the state government, who was represented by Dr. Akin Onigbinde (SAN). In the order of interim injunction, Justice Abass restrained the sacked chairmen from forcefully taking over the councils or resort to steps capable of causing a breach of peace in the state. The court also restrained Malami, the IGP, and the Oyo State APC chairman, Mr. Akin Oke, their agents from taking any step that could tamper with status quo pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice. On the way out of the logjam, a constitutional lawyer, Chief Mike Ozekhome (SANs) asked the federal government to return to the Supreme for the enforcement of the judgment. He said that such appeals are pursued through an originating summons since the facts of the case are not in dispute. “Either the federal or the LGAs through their association of LGAs – ALGON, should approach the Supreme Court and federal/state high courts respectively to enforce the clear judgment of the apex court,” he said. Another prominent lawyer, Akinlaja, also charged the parties to go back to the court because the enforcement of court judgments does not fall on the shoulders of the federal government. He told a national daily that: “I am not aware that the federal government is a police of some sort that will be enforcing the decision of a court. The responsibility of enforcing the judgment of a court does not strictly fall on the federal government; it is those that are concerned that will go to court for enforcement either by way of contempt of court or by whatever way and manner.” Even as the controversy rages, Makinde on Wednesday visited Adamu in Abuja where he declared that his administration does not want trouble in Oyo. The governor, however, told newsmen at the Force Headquarters that he came to brief the IGP on the security situation in the state. His chief press secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, who issued a statement on the visit, explained that Makinde declared that his administration “does not want chaos in Oyo State.” He added that he would obey the judgment of the court once the pending appeals on the local government dissolution in the state were decided. Makinde added that he also discussed the Western Nigerian Security Network, codenamed ‘Amotekun’ with the IGP, adding that “we are trying to build a new country where the rule of law is supreme, so everybody should be law-abiding, ensure that they don’t do anything that would create lawlessness.” This bold step by the governor is seen by some Nigerians as the right thing to do to ease tension in the state. 