One Adesina Adeniyi (42) and Oluwole Olapade (58) have been arrested by Osun State Police Command for allegedly being in possession of two human skulls and decomposing liver. Also, the command on Tuesday disclosed the arrest of two suspected armed robbery suspects who were captured after a gun duel with Police at Osu in Atakumosa West Local Government Area of the state. The Commissioner of Police, Johnson Kokumo while parading the suspects said Adeniyi is a patent medicine shop owner and was arrested in Iwo while traveling on a commercial bus to Ibadan, Oyo state. He noted that he was caught with two human skulls and a liver after a thorough search by men of Police Mobile Force attached to Iwo Area Command. His word: “The suspect who resides at Kajola area in Iwo disclosed to the police during interrogation that the skull and the liver were recovered from a Muslim cemetery and a mortuary in the town, where he was an attendant. “Following the gruesome murder of Favour Oladele-Daley, we have pledged to rid the state of ritual element in the state and during one of such efforts, a suspected ritualist was caught with two human skull and other human parts. “After the arrest of the suspect and upon diligent investigation, his accomplice, Oluwole Olapade, a resident of Yemetu in Ibadan was trailed and arrested”. “Olapade, a native doctor, who required human skull for charm had pledged to pay N20,000 per skull to the attendants. He had gotten a skull before which he claimed did not produce money, hence, he decided another skull should be procured for use”. He concluded. While Adeniyi was responding to questions from journalists, he explained that he sourced for the skull in an open cemetery in the town and I have gotten one for him before and was supposed to deliver another one to him before I was caught. For now, I operate a patent medicine store and yet to be married. The native doctor claimed to have known Adeniyi for long because his father was his acquittance before his demise. Adeniyi said he his a patent medicine store owner, but source for the skulls in a cemetery in the town. Meanwhile, police also claimed to have burst a fake Naval base operated by Nigeria Navy Coastal Merchant. It arrested five persons, four suspected recruit and a self-acclaimed Naval Captain Akinsiku Sunkanmi, 27, for impersonation. Four other suspects arrested at the base were; Aniedu Aniedu Easiet, Nwabueze Ijeoma Dalton, Raheem Quadri, and Gabriel Jacob. 