Not fewer than 21 persons have been killed by bandits in Bakali village, Fatika District, Giwa Local Government Area  (LGA)of Kaduna State, with 9 persons missing. It was gathered 11 members of the same family were among those who were killed in the attack. They were locked inside their house by the bandits and the house set ablaze with those inside burnt to death. A member of the community, Malam Sani Bakali who lost 11 members of his family in the attack told newsmen that, the bandits stormed the community around 4pm on Tuesday and operated for hours and wreaked havoc on the helpless community. According to him, “the bandits stormed our village on Tuesday around 4pm on several motorbikes brandishing AK47 riffles and other dangerous weapons including fuel which was used to set the house ablaze. “Immediately they came, they started moving round the village, shooting sporadically. In the process, they came to our house, set the house ablaze, with 11 people inside. “All the 11 people are members of my family. They include three women and eight children, who are wives and children of my three younger brothers. “They also killed two of my uncles. While on the bush path, we discovered four other corpses burnt to death. They equally killed two Imams, one of my neighbors and a close friend of mine. “We just performed the funeral prayer for the 21 this afternoon (Wednesday). Initially, it was 20 corpses we buried first before we later discovered one more corpse inside the bush we buried him too. “Right now, people have fled the village. I am the only one left in the village now, because I have come to pick something. I just took my brother and his two wives to Zaria. I am about leaving now myself. “Apart from the people killed, there are nine people we are yet to see since after the incident. As it is now, we don’t know whether they have been killed or not.” he stated. When contacted the police public relation officer (PPRO), Kaduna State Command, Muhamnad Jalige, confirmed the attack but could not confirm the casualty figures as at the time of the report. Jalige who spoke via the telephone said, “yes, there was an attack in Giwa, Bakali village to be precise and we have sent a team of police officers and men there to ascertain the situation of things. We are going to get across to you as soon as we have the details.” he said.