At least one person has been killed and eight others injured in the lingering crisis rocking local government administration in Oyo State. The crisis took a different dimension on Monday as one person was killed and several others injured, during a clash between the loyalists of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogbomoso. An eyewitness told journalists that several dangerous weapons were freely used during the fracas. It was gathered that the deceased simply identified as Alajase is a member of the PDP from Surulere Local Government Area of the state. The sacked chairman of Ogbomoso North Local Government Area, Hon. Olamiju Alao-Akala had earlier said that he was attacked by hoodlums believed to be supporters of PDP, while the caretaker committee chairman, Hon. Ibrahim Ajagbe alleged that Olamiju-led armed thugs disperse them away from the secretariat. Ajagbe said eight people that were injured by the APC loyalists have been taken to hospital. The young Alao-Akala, who was one of the elected chairmen sacked by Seyi Makinde, governor of Oyo State, said he was attacked on his way to his house. Speaking with newsmen, Alao-Akala, who resumed to his Ogbomoso North local government last Monday, explained that “I was coming from a guest house around YOACO area of Ogbomoso when I was ambushed by the over 50 Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, thugs around 11 AM. “The attack took place very close to our Council Secretariat. I had to pass the front of the local government. I was attacked by PDP thugs and they tried to machete me but my driver was quick to manoeuvre so the cutlass hit my side of the door, then they chased and attacked the back too,” he added. The young politician, who was briefly at Owode Police Station early this morning to report the incident, said that he was back in his council office. “I am a man of peace but the  PDP must not take my peaceful nature for foolishness and timidity. It’s high time we jettisoned political brigandage. This is 21st century and we must embrace politics of development”, he added. 