The federal government has shortlisted 200 firms from bidders for the commercialisation of 45 gas flare sites in the country as part of the ongoing Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme. Speaking at a bidders’ conference in Lagos, the director of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Sarki Auwalu, said that the bidders emerged from 850 who registered their interest in the Nigeria Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme and submitted statements of qualification in response to the request for qualification published by the DPR. The said the conference provided a platform to engage with every qualified stakeholder to provide further clarifications on the RFP and commercial agreements and other matters relating to the NGFCP programme. The NGFCP is a programme designed by the government to provide a commercial approach to eliminate routine gas flaring by creating value from flare gas through the capture and transformation of waste gas into useful products. He said that the programme would enable the Nigerians benefit from the commercial value of flaring gas and other potential value of the country’s gas revolution. The programme is also government’s effort at attaining Zero Routine Flaring (ZRF) from oil and gas operations and align with its commitment to the Paris Climate Change Agreement (COP 21). At the conference, some bidders expressed disappointment over the exclusion of certain prolific sites from the bids and other infractions which do not give them requisite value as Nigerian investors. But the DPR said it was not true that non-prolific sites were put on the basket to discourage some local investors at the expense of foreign ones. The agency said the intent of the federal government on the programme would be met while not losing sight of its economic and environmental impacts to investors and the country. The programme manager of NHFCP, Mr. Justice Derefaka, had said that it has the potential of generating approximately $3.5 billion of inward investment into Nigeria, as well as the potential to impact the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by an estimated $ 1 billion per annum.