The Senate has threatened to recommend to President Muhammadu Buhari the removal of heads of Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) indicted in the 2015 report of the auditor-general of the federation. LEADERSHIP recalls that the National Assembly had for 16 years (1999-2015) refrained from taking drastic action on the audited reports on the financial transactions of the MDAs sent to it by the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation (OAGF). But the 9th Senate said it had commenced investigation into the audited report of the MDAs in 2015, adding that the number of defaulting agencies was mindboggling. The lawmakers insisted that all the officials indicted in the reports would either be charged to court or recommended to President Buhari to remove them from office. The threat came yesterday from the chairman, Senate Committee on Public Accounts, Senator Mathew Orhogide, during a public hearing on the 2015 audited report which was submitted to the red Chamber by the auditor-general of the federation. He said that the heads of the MDAs were invited to explain their 2015 spending which the audit report indicted of. However, the heads of the agencies were not opportuned to speak during the public hearing following the suspension of plenary by the Senate in honour of Senator Ignatius Longjan of Plateau South Senatorial District, who died on Monday in Abuja. Orhogide said that the heads of the MDAs must appear tomorrow to defend themselves. The invited MDAs are the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria Customs Service (NSC), account-general of the federation (AGF), Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), National Pension Commission (NPC), Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Debt Management Office (DMO), and the head of service of the federation (HoSF). Senator Orhogide, who acknowledged that since 1999 the Senate had not played its role of looking into the audited reports sent to it from the auditor-general’s office, lamented that it had been an ugly story about the audited accounts of the MDAs. He said: “We have the audited report sent to the National Assembly by the auditor-general of the federation but the Senate has been unable to consider it. “The committee called you here to explain your part on the queries raised in the audited report by the auditor-general which you did not reply. Even those that replied, we want to hear from them because after we are done with the 2015 report and issued certificates to you, we will go into the 2016 report and after which our findings and recommendations will be sent to the executive for appropriate action,” Orhogide said. The senator, who said the committee’s investigation would be guided by the Procurement Act, Fiscal Responsibility Act, and the Financial Regulation Act, insisted they would recommend the sack of any head of agency found wanting. “So, the heads of the MDAs must ensure they don’t answer queries through proxies. If you are found wanting, we will recommend your removal from office,” Orhogide said. While stressing the powers of the auditor-general of the federation, Orhogide said that the OAGF is more on the side of the parliament than the executive. “Anyone indicted by auditor-general’s report, we will invite that person or organisation to explain and if they can’t defend themselves, they will be charged to court,” Orhogide said, adding that OAGF can’t be removed by the president except with the consent and approval of the parliament.