In this feature, ANAYO ONUKWUGHA writes of the war of words between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and groups sympathetic to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), over the recent protest at the Abuja residence of Dr. Peter Odili. A few days ago, some protesters stormed the residence of a Justice of the Supreme Court, Mary Peter-Odili, in Abuja, berating the judge for the decision on the governorship election in Bayelsa State on February 13, 2020. A five-man panel of the apex court, led by Justice Peter-Odili, in the judgement ordered the sack of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governor-elect, David Lyon; and his deputy, Senator Biobarakumo Degi. They instead pronounced the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the election, Duoye Diri, as the validly elected governor. Mixed reactions have greeted the protest as the national leadership of APC accused the PDP of being responsible for the attack. According to Deputy National Publicity Secretary of APC, Yekini Nabena, it was regrettable that the protesters identified themselves as “APC supporters”. Nabena said: “It was a smokescreen to portray the APC governorship candidate, Chief David Lyon, and his supporters in bad light.” He called on the judiciary to “ignore the PDP’s antics and always side with the will of the people and rule of law in all matters.” The APC spokesman said: “In recent time, the PDP is used to protesting from one embassy to another just to blackmail the judiciary. “Nobody should be fooled by the usual antics of the PDP. Resort to extra-judicial tactics such as maligning the judiciary and its officials is the PDP’s stock-in-trade. “The same hired urchins the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus used for his senseless protests to the embassies of the United Kingdom, United States and the European Union (EU) were also the ones used for Tuesday’s protests at Justice Odili’s residence. “The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike aside being the main financier of the PDP, must explain his inexplicable interest in the governorship of Bayelsa State. The people of Rivers State must begin to ask their governor how and what he uses their money for. “The APC national leadership is already pursuing all legal avenue to contest the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to declare Douye Diri as Bayelsa Governor, having failed to meet the mandatory constitutional requirement to become the governor. “Also, our leaders have already told our supporters to avoid violent confrontations while legal means are sort to review INEC’s unconstitutional decision. Our people have listened and are confident that our judicial system will ensure that the people’s will and justice are done.” But, in its swift response, the Rivers State government condemned the attack and warned that APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiohmole and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, should be held responsible should any harm befall Odili and his family. Addressing newsmen shortly after the weekly State Executive Council meeting at Government House, Port Harcourt, the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim, said the Federal Government seems not to show interest in the sponsored threats to the lives of the former Rivers State Governor, and members of his family. Nsirim said: “The Rivers State Executive Council at its meeting held on Wednesday 19th February, 2020 at the Government House, Port Harcourt reviewed the recent attacks on the residence of the Former Governor of Rivers State, Dr Peter Odili as a result of the Supreme Court judgment that nullified the election of David Lyon as Governor of Bayelsa State and resolved as follows: “That the Rivers State Executive Council observed that the Federal Government seems not to show interest in the sponsored threats to the lives of Dr Peter Odili and members of his family. “That the Rivers State Executive Council condemns the barricading of the residence of Dr Peter Odili at Maitama, Abuja by sponsored thugs of the All Progressives  Congress (APC) . “That the Rivers State Executive Council wondered why Dr. Peter Odili’s family should be singled out for the unwarranted attack, when the judgment that ousted David Lyon as Governor of Bayelsa State was a unanimous decision of a five-member panel of Supreme Court Justices. “That the Rivers State Executive Council warns the Minister of State for Petroleum,  Chief Timipre Sylva and the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole and their hired agents to desist from the sponsorship of violent attacks against Dr. Peter Odili and members of his family. “That the Rivers State Government will hold Timipre Sylva and Adams Oshiomhole responsible if anything happens to Dr. Peter Odili and members  of his family. “That the Rivers State Executive Council noted that in the past Rivers State suffered unfavourable Judicial Pronouncements and never resorted to self help as being promoted by APC Leaders in the case of Bayelsa State. “That the Rivers State Government will employ all legal means to protect Dr. Peter Odili and members of his family. “That the Rivers State Government will protect Rivers State Indigenes who are serving Federal and State Judicial officers. “That the Rivers State Government warns that should this harassment  and intimidation  continue,  it will have no alternative  than to retaliate. “That the Rivers State Government will defend the lives and property of Rivers people at all times. Enough is enough.” Not few groups have also condemned the protest at the Abuja residence of the Supreme Court judge. One of the groups is the Vanguard for Defence of Justice and Good Governance (VDJGG), which described the protest as “an attack on the sanctity of Nigerian judiciary.” The group, in a statement signed by Braide Jasper and Jumbo Ashaka, President and Secretary respectively, said its findings revealed that, the protesters, who attacked the Abuja residence of Justice Odili, perpetrated the act because she was wife to former Rivers State governor and PDP chieftain, Dr. Peter Odili. The statement described the action of the protesters as unfortunate, noting that there was not any demonstration in cases where Justice Odili ruled in favour of the (APC). It reads in part: “Our findings show that the irate APC youths, who attacked Mary Odili’s Abuja home, claimed that the judgement was influenced by the fact that Justice Mary’s husband, Dr. Peter Odili, former governor of Rivers State and one time presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP, was the principal reason the judgement went against the APC. “Nothing could be more misplaced than this misconception. It will be recalled that Dr. Peter Odili was still in PDP when his dear wife, Justice Mary Odili wrote and read the lead judgements that upturned the election petitions of Lagos, Kaduna, Nasarawa and Katsina states, which were all won by the APC. “Our question is: where were these attackers when all of the above judgements happened under Justice Mary Odili’s watch? The group, however, called on the security agencies to, “as a matter of national importance, arrest and prosecute anybody, who made inciting statements that led to the attack on Justice Mary Odili and all those involved in such attacks.” To the youth wing of APC in Bayelsa State, the latest protest was a continuation of assault on the Justices of the Supreme Court. The youths, in a statement signed by its spokesman, Comrade Johnson Dume,  asked the party leadership to blame itself for presenting candidates with forged credentials for the elections. Dume stated that the APC leadership under Oshiomhole, rather than grandstand, should apologise to its teeming supporters for the “monumental embarrassment” that the nomination had caused them.  