The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has disclosed that the country lost about $750 million (N270 billion) to oil theft in 2019. In a presentation to members of the Executive Intelligence Management Course 13 of the National Institute for Security Studies (NISS), who visited the NNPC Towers, Abuja, on a study tour, yesterday, the group managing director of NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, decried the growing activities of oil thieves and pirates, which he described as a threat to the corporation’s operations. Kyari, who spoke on “Piracy in the Gulf of Guinea: Issues, Challenges for International Trade, National Security and Sustainable Development of Member States,” stated that any threat to the corporation’s operations was a direct threat to the very survival of Nigeria as nation because of the strategic role of the NNPC as an enabler of the economy. He listed other security challenges facing the NNPC to include vandalism of oil and gas infrastructure and kidnapping of personnel, adding that there was a deep connection between the various shades of insecurity challenges as they are all linked to what was happening in the Gulf of Guinea and the entire maritime environment. The NNPC boss, therefore, called for a concerted effort and synergy to secure oil and gas operations for the economic prosperity of the country. Responding to questions on the challenge posed by the proposed energy migration by most western countries to renewables, the NNPC GMD said that fossil fuels would still be relevant and that the demand for crude oil would not reduce in the nearest future. “Even by 2050, fossil fuel would account for 80 per cent of the energy mix, and there would still be consumption of at least, 100 million barrels of oil per day. We are determined to remain relevant in the long term,” he said. In his presentation, NNPC chief operating officer, Downstream, Engr. Yemi Adetunji, said that in 2016, the Gulf of Guinea accounted for more than half of the global kidnappings for ransom, with 34 seafarers abducted out of the 62 cases worldwide. He said that the corporation was working with the appropriate agencies to tackle the security challenges, and cited “Operation Kurombe” that was recently conducted by the Nigerian Navy at the Atlas Cove as one of such collaborative efforts. On his part, the executive director, National Institute of Security Studies, Dr. Ayodele Adeleke, called for synergy among the concerned agencies to tackle the security challenges not only in the Gulf of Guinea, but in particular, the Nigerian petroleum industry. The visiting team was drawn from 18 agencies within and outside Nigeria