The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that all
election results and data for elections from 1999 to 2019 will soon be
online. The Board of Electoral Institute (BEI) chairman, who is also a National Commissioner, Prince Solomon Soyebi, said this in Abuja. Speaking at a one-day workshop to look at a proposed compendium of 2007, 2011 and 2015 General Elections results, Soyebi said they have interrogated the result of the elections adding that they are trying their best to ensure the result of all the elections from 1999 to date
are available online. He said they would ensure that lesson learned on those elections help
in future polls. “Result of the 2019 general election is in our website. It is separated based on sex, rural setting and other demographics. From the 2019 general election, we can now show the state with the highest votes. Lagos has always experience lowest percent of registration and voting,” Soyebi said. The National Commissioner who said the 1999 and 2003 general election
results and data is not lost, added that there were no much political
parties in those election which will help them in getting the data and
publish it inform of a compendium. “No data is lost. We will bring them,” Soyebi said of the 1999 and the
2003 general election results. He said: “There were no much parties in those elections. We will get
the data and try to analyze them. Once that is done, even traditional
rulers can learn lessons from it,” Soyebi added. Speaking at the a one-day workshop, National Commissioner and a former
member of the Nigeria Institute of Social and Economic Research (NISER), Prof Anthonia Simbine, said they focused on preparing a compendium of 2007, 2011 and 2015 general elections results because data of the result of the 1999 and the 2003 general elections results were not available. According to Simbine, the researchers did not find it difficult to to traced the 2019 general elections results which is already online, but added that the draft compendium recommended that the result of elections should be release in more organized manner that will aid
documentation. Simbine who said there are no particular findings from the 2007, 2011 and 2015 general elections results but added that the difficulty they encoutered in the research process before she was appointed National Commissioner was that the 2007, 2011 and 2015 general elections results were collected individually without proper organization. “You need to organised them from the polling units, constiuencies and
local governments. “We want people to get the statistics of the voters. The Women, the
men, artisants and the rural dwellers. If political parties follow the demographics, they will be able to know their targets during political campaigns. It will also help the government in the provision of essential things. It will also help INEC too,” she said. “Much of the data were not made available because it was scattered in various offices but the 2019 data was not like that because we had a better way of storing them and it’s online,” Simbine said. “The recommendation is that the result of election should be release in more organized manner,” she said adding that the data of the 1999 and 2003 general election results was not available during the compendium’s work. “It was difficult to get that of 1999 and 2003,” Simbine said of the data of those elections. She said the data they got was not organized in a better form for researchers to use.