In this report, ANGELA NKWO-AKPOLU in Owerri writes on the developments in the Imo State House of Assembly, owning to a recent Supreme Court judgement that led to a change of power at the Government House. Until January 14, 2020, Imo State was controlled by the officials elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), from the erstwhile Governor, Rt Hon Emeka Ihedioha; his Deputy, Engr Gerald Irona; and State Assembly, led by the Speaker, Dr Chiji Collins. However, all that changed when the Supreme Court pronounced Senator Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress (APC) the Governor, alongside his Deputy, Prof Placid Njoku. And within days the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) controlled zone crashed like a pack of cards. In Nigeria, political office holders believe they can attain relevance only if they belong to the same political family with the sitting Governor or the President, thus there are alignments and counter-alignments to achieve this. In Imo State, between May 2007 and 2010, former Governor Dr Ikedi Ohakim was elected on the platform of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA) while the State Assembly was controlled by the PDP. No lawmaker made an attempt to jump ship, but rather Ohakim was kept on his toes via robust checkmating by the lawmakers throughout the four years. In Anambra State, under Peter Obi, then elected on the platform of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), the state lawmakers remained in PDP and gave the soft spoken governor heat, none joined Obi and neither did he join PDP then. At the end, the people enjoyed quality governance. Perhaps, that was the premise Imo people hinged their hope but that was not to be, as the lawmakers have been falling over themselves on who joins APC next. Imo State before the emergence of Senator Rochas Okorocha, then Governor in 2011, was considered a PDP state. However, during the 2019 election buildup, Okorocha brought Action Alliance (AA) for his associates to express their political fangs. But following the emergence of Rt. Hon Emeka Ihedioha as Governor in 2019, almost everyone moved into PDP or so it seemed. But since January 14, it has been a new song in the state, everywhere you turn, APC has become the alleged messiah everyone is singing. Senator Hope Uzodinma was elected twice into the Red chamber on the platform of the PDP, though he left for the APC through which he became governor. And since his emergence, it has been a gale of defections. The first set of decampees from PDP were Hon. Chyna Iwuanyanwu of Nwangele state constituency; Hon Chidem Emelumba of Okigwe; and Hon Herculus Okoro of Ohaji-Egbema state constituency. Other PDP lawmakers who defected were Hon. Uche Ogbuagu (Ikeduru); Hon Dominic Ezerioha (Oru West);  Hon Chigozie Nwaneri (Oru East); Hon Kanayo Onyemaechi (Owerri West); Kennedy Ibe (Obowo); Onyemaechi Njoku (Ihitte/Uboma), and Eddy Obinna (Aboh Mbaise). On his part, the Speaker of the State Assembly, Dr. Chiji Collins joined other lawmakers, perhaps to retain his seat by majority into APC. He had decamped from APGA to PDP to clinch the position, and moved again to APC to retain the office. The lawmakers from the AA are Hon Arthur Egwim of Ideato North; Hon Johnson Duru of Ideato south; Ngozi Obiefule of Isu state constituency; Hon Obinna Okwara of Nkwerre State constituency; and Hon Uju Onwudiwe of Njaba elected via AA have moved camp to APC. Those elected on the APGA ticket were not left out either as Hon Paul Emeziem of Onuimo constituency; Ekene Nnodumele of Orsu also followed suit. The Speaker had claimed that out of the 27 lawmakers, 26 had joined the APC, however facts have shown that PDP still has six lawmakers who are yet to decamp or may not. They are the immediate past Deputy Speaker, Hon Okey Onyekanma for Mbaitoli state constituency; Tochi Okereke for Ngor Okpala; Frank Ugboma for Oguta; Anyadike Nwosu for Ezinihitte Mbaise; Phillip Ejiogu for Owerri North; and Solomon Anokam for Owerri Municipal. The six lawmakers insist they will stand with the party of their people, the PDP. It is expected that the former Deputy Speaker will become the new minority leader, since the APC now has majority in the house. Publicity Secretary of the PDP in Imo State, Damian Opara maintained that the party still stands strong despite the move by some of her members. Opara said: “Well it is political migration and it has happened. We wish them good luck where they are now but we remain strong, we are not shaking and we will not lose sleep over their move. We wish them well”, he maintained. He disclosed that arrangements are still on to recall the lawmakers from the house, saying when it is time, the people will know but that presently, the party is forging ahead. Further, Opara said the resignation of the party’s chairman, Chief Charles Ezekwem in the wake of Uzodinma’s emergence was also not a threat, saying the party has accepted the resignation and moved on. He said “You cannot force a person to be with you, especially if the person does not want to again. We have accepted the resignation and nominated an acting chairman already, Chief Martin Ejiogu, because nature abhors vacuum. We also wish him well in his endeavours”, Opara stated. Chief Ezekwem had stunned party faithfuls when he resigned his position as party chairman, even as he alleged he was always treated as an outsider because of his perceived closeness with Senator Samuel Anyanwu, another gubernatorial aspirant of Imo PDP. Meanwhile, apart from lawmakers, politicians across the state desirous of appointments, have started moving in droves into the APC, as there are tons of advertisements in local newspapers wherein they announce their new move. Only recently, a board of trustees member of the PDP, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, issued a statement to debunk any move to APC. Iwuanyanwu’s media handler, Chief Ben had in a statement denied such moves and warned schemers to steer clear of his boss. At the ward and grassroots level, politicians have besieged political associates of Governor Uzodinma, in a bid to curry favours. Truth be told, in Imo State, pleasantries are laced with jokes of decampment as people jokingly ask “have you also defected” and then laugh over it. Meanwhile, another set is awaiting the final verdict of the Supreme Court on the review application filed by Chief Ihedioha, to decide where to pitch tent. But one thing is obvious, in the days to come, Imo will become a PDP or APC controlled state because of Ihedioha or Uzodinma. Only the Supreme Court holds the aces.