TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes on the emergence of Western Nigeria Security Network (WSNS), code-named Operation Amotekun likely to pave the way for the establishment of various regional security frameworks across the country. There have been debates since the endorsement of the Western Nigeria Security Network (WSNS), code-named Operation Amotekun and its official launch on 9 January, this year, by the Southwest governors, in response to the increasing need to protect their states from destruction of farmlands and frequent clashes between herders and farmers. This terror has led to killings, loss of properties, kidnappings, armed robbery amongst others. Issues brewing were more along the absurdities associated with the legality of the outfit and Nigeria’s federalism. Political commentators have described the launching of the security outfit as one of the most courageous, most needed and most commendable moves by the Southwest governors. They also noted that it was a very clear demonstration of the weakness and inadequacy of our structure of governance and the national internal security system. However, amidst mixed feelings that Operation Amotekun could be the beginning of the needed clamour for restructuring, with the Southeast and Southwest becoming a political ally for the first time on a national issue. The social media went agog for the support of the establishment of Operation Amotekun, just as most of the discussions on both print and broadcast media were on the issue. It was obvious that mischief-makers have chosen to use the establishment of the security outfit to call for restructuring of the country, gain political relevance or serve as a weapon to garner support to break up the country, the development obviously did not go down well with the federal government. At first, everything was going as planned until the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami faulted the establishment of Amotekun, describing the initiative as ‘illegal’. But he made further clarification on the issue saying, he was initially misquoted as saying Amotekun is illegal. He has since clarified this, explaining all he said was that the legal back up for Amotekun was not yet there. For the creation of Operation Amotekun, the coast became clearer for the establishment of Operation Amotekun as the governors of the Southwest, the Inspector General of Police (IG), Mr. Mohammed Adamu and state police commissioners in the region, met behind closed doors in Lagos to forge a consensus on the regional security outfit, Amotekun, being promoted by the six states in the geopolitical zone. Other stakeholders at the meeting were commissioners of Police, attorney-generals and commissioners for justice from the six states, representatives of other security agencies, monarchs, and representatives of Community Development Committees (CDCs). The Operation Amotekun bill scaled second reading in the Houses of Assembly in Ondo and Oyo States, the draft bill was also ratified in Osogbo by the Osun State Executive Council while the Ogun State House Assembly confirmed receipt of the draft bill from the executive. The Ondo State governor Rotimi Akeredolu and Inspector General of Police Mohammed Adamu briefed reporters at the end of the meeting. They both alluded to the need for Operation Amatekun as a community policing strategy to tackle crime in Lagos, Oyo, Ondo, Ogun, Osun and Ekiti states. The federal government, the governors also agreed to ‘unbundle’ the regional connotation and formalise its establishments in the six states with relevant legislations, adding that it will not be a regional outfit, but state-based. The Ondo governor Akeredolu said : ‘’It is clear that community policing which the Nigeria police is anchoring, is one that will benefit all of us from the ward up to the state level.” He indicated this in the meeting, with all stakeholders agreeing to embrace community policing in its entirety. Explaining that Operation Amotekun is not regional police, but state-based, Akeredolu said: “We have made things clear to everybody and we want all of us to know now that when we said we are having Amotekun, it is not that we are creating regional police. Amotekun is not regional police. “Amotekun is state based because we don’t have regions in the country anyway. We only have states; and all of us have agreed that when you have laws in your respective states backing Amotekun or any security outfit, then you can go ahead for as long as it is within the legal bound. “So, we have come out happy; all of us have agreed and it’s been a wonderful resolution of few dark areas, which we have put light into, but we can’t give you full details because this is a security summit. But, I can assure you that we are on the same page in respect of this.” The Inspector General of Police reechoed the governor’s statement, saying that Amotekun is not a regional outfit. He noted that every state has one form of security arrangement, whether it is vigilante or neighbourhood watch that are working security agencies in the states to fight crime. He said Amotekun is not different from these initiatives and they have agreed that community policing strategy be infused into the Amotekun structure, so that policing will be the initiative of the community members. According to him, “Every state, right now, has one form of security outfit or the other working with security agencies to fight crime and criminality. Community policing is infused into all the existing states’ security structures. It is not a regional structure; it is a state structure and it must be backed by law for it to be effective. So, we are saying the same thing. The structure must be in tandem with community policing.” Asked whether the police will be involved in the training, deployment and payment of salaries of Amotekun operatives, the IG said: “Community policing is nothing but partnership, adding that whatever structure that is in place it must be in partnership with the police to deal with problems that are associated with crimes, and criminality.’’ Probably as an imitation of Operation Amotekun with the controversial reception by the federal government despite being a group initiative to combat crime and restore the Southwest region to the normality it had enjoyed for decades via Oduduwa Peoples Congress (OPC), the Coalition of Northern Group (CNG) launch a local security outfit known as “Shege Ka Fasa” as the region’s equivalent of Amotekun in the Southwest in the north. Its sponsors, who concede that unlike Operation Amotekun, they are non-state actors, disclosed that their outfit would do the following, among other things: “In addition to performing general complementary tasks for enhancing security in the region, the outfit shall also coordinate operations against the influx of hard drugs to the North, take steps to neutralize all centres of gravity for the supply, manufacturing and distribution of such drugs and other dangerous substances. ‘’To be the vanguard of the entire North, encompassing every ethnic group and religion and be patriotic in operations in addition to performing general complementary tasks for enhancing security in the region. ‘’Coordinate vigilance to check and expose illegal arms trade, supply channels and possession and guard against the theft and illegal traffic in kids and other vulnerable sections of the northern population as well as expose operations of fraudsters like the Yahoo boys whose ill-gotten wealth forms part of the source of funding for the drug and arms trade.” The plan to launch the outfit Shege Ka Fasa which enjoys probably some covert support from a few undisclosed quarters has hit a brick wall as northern governors have rejected the initiative. The governors who also described the name of the outfit as derogatory indicated their preference for community policing to secure the region. Their rejection came a few days after the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, opposed the establishment of the security outfit with a call on Northern elders not to allow the youth to take over their responsibilities. Spokesman of the group, Mr. Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, had said that the CNG had written to the Northern State Governors’ Forum (NSGF) to support the group, but the NSGF thumbed down the proposal. What, however, led to the untimely death of the formation was the name of the outfit which was not only derogatory but abusive as ‘Shege’ is a derogatory word in Hausa language and also abusive. The Northern governors obviously cannot adopt such derogatory nomenclature. Meanwhile, the governors of the Southeast states have disclosed that they will soon name their regional security outfit and claimed the process started last year. This is even as they disclosed that the State Houses of Assembly in the zone were in the verge of passing laws that will give the outfit legal backing. The Governors said they had notified the federal government about their plans and will follow it up with details of the joint security outfit. The Governors disclosed this when the Southeast Governors Forum met in Enugu. In its communique read by Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief Dave Umahi, on the issue of insecurity, said the forum had been inundated with questions on the region’s plans after the Southwest unveiled Amotekun, stating that the Southeast was not in competition with other regions.