The ranking of Nigeria as second among countries practising open defecation demand concerted efforts by the federal government and the relevant stakeholders to end the menace, TUNDE OGUNTOLA reports A motorcycle operator, Sani Ibrahim, was recently sighted by students of Koroduma Government Secondary School, One Man Village, Nasarawa State, while defecating openly in a bush path beside the school premises. Apparently angered by the persistent act of Okada riders and other residents in the FCT suburb, the students made efforts to stop Ibrahim from polluting their school premises. They lamented that their ball, on many occasions, perch on such poo while playing football in the school’s field, which is why they would no longer watch anyone defecate within their school premises. They insisted that Ibrahim should pack the poo with his hands. This led to a disagreement between them and Ibrahim, and it took the intervention of passers-by to settle it. Ibrahim on his part claimed that he was pressured to use a toilet and could not find one nearby. This is a community that is just about 15 kilometres to the Federal Capital Territory. “The brazing act of open defecation has stressed the need for a task force to address the scourge in the area, in line with Executive Order 009 by the federal government,” said Bright Sabo, a resident of the community, who stressed that urgent action should be taken to check sanitation and hygiene in the rural communities of the state. Sabo said such task force should be empowered to arrest anyone caught defecating in the open, if the government is serious to end open defecation or attain Open Defecation Free (ODF) status. “It is not uncommon to see people come down with water-related ailment such as diarrhoea, Cholera; therefore, anyone caught defecating in the open should be arrested and prosecuted,” he emphasised. Another resident of the area, Salamatu Mohammed, described the high level of open defecation in the area as very “shameful”. She noted that the act has led to serious health issues in the suburb, calling for a concerted effort to halt the menace. Salamatu urged people who don’t have toilets to construct such facilities in their homes or use public toilets. According to her, “It is unthinkable for someone to urinate on the street in saner climes, talk more of defecating. The government should step up action to stop open defecation in this community and the nation as a whole. It is very shameful that our people could build houses without toilet facilities and then defecate in the open. “It is even better here. The last time I was in Osun State, open defecation seems to be a norm over there. I don’t know maybe it is a tradition to build a house without toilets. “Government should declare a state of emergency on open defecation if they really want to end this trouble.” It would be recalled that last year, President Muhammadu Buhari signed Executive Order 009, titled: “The Open Defecation-free Nigeria by 2025 and other related matters.” The order is to ensure that Nigeria becomes open defecation free by 2025. However, data from the 2018 WASH National Outcome Routine Mapping (WASH NORM), World Health Organisation/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation stressed the need to end open defecations and further revealed that based on empirical study, every naira invested in the water and sanitation sector results in economic benefit ranging from N1,080 to N12,240 ($3 to $34). According to the data, the gains come through savings in healthcare costs, increased productivity, and entrepreneurial opportunities for the sanitation market. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s economic loss due to poor sanitation which results in illness, low productivity, loss of learning opportunities, etc, ranges from about 1.3 per cent (N455 billion) of GDP annually. The health impact of open defecation is also enormous, as the statistic shows that more than 100,000 children under five years of age die each year due to diarrhoea; of which 90 per cent is directly attributable to unsafe water and poor sanitation. Nigeria is the second country with the highest children’s deaths due to diarrhoea. “Open defecation also has a negative impact on child development, as one in four children under five years of age exhibit severe stunting, while 1 in 10 are wasted, due to frequent episodes of diarrhoea and other Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) related illnesses. “Frequent episodes of WASH-related diseases cause absence from school or work, as affected people take time off to heal, and some to take care of a sick relative also leads to low productivity,” the report said. On education outcomes of open defecation, the statistic shows, “reduced school enrolment and attendance due to time lost in the search for water and frequent episodes of WASH-related illnesses.” “Open defecation results in loss of dignity, increased risks of insecurity and violence against women and children which in turn lead to loss of dignity and security,” the report said. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), some 827,000 people in low- and middle-income countries die as a result of inadequate water, sanitation, and hygiene each year, representing 60 per cent of total diarrhoea deaths. Poor sanitation is believed to be the main cause in some 432,000 of these deaths. It noted that diarrhoea remains a major killer, but is largely preventable. Adding that better water, sanitation, and hygiene could prevent the deaths of 297,000 children aged under-five years annually. The world health body said open defecation perpetuates a vicious cycle of disease and poverty. “The countries where open defection is most widespread have the highest number of deaths of children aged under-five years, as well as the highest levels of malnutrition and poverty, and big disparities of wealth,” it said. Some of the benefits of improving sanitation, according to WHO, include reducing the spread of intestinal worms, schistosomiasis and trachoma, which are neglected tropical diseases that cause suffering for millions, reducing the severity and impact of malnutrition; promoting dignity and boosting safety, particularly among women and girls; promoting school attendance: girls’ school attendance is particularly boosted by the provision of separate sanitary facilities; and potential recovery of water, renewable energy and nutrients from faecal waste. The current estimates indicate that around 673 million people practice open defecation. This is down from about 892 million people, or 12 per cent of the global population, who practised open defecation in 2016. In that year, 76 per cent or 678 million of the 892 million people practising open defecation in the world lived in just seven countries. Nigeria is one of them. Experts assert that open defecation is one of the indicators being used to measure progress towards the Sustainable Development Goal Number 6. Extreme poverty and lack of sanitation are statistically linked. Therefore, eliminating open defecation is thought to be an important part of the effort to eliminate poverty. As part of efforts to achieve this, the Federal Ministry of Water Resources, as the government agency spearheading this effort and working with international agencies like UNICEF, has developed a road map for making Nigeria open defecation-free within that period. The campaign is already on to wipe out the ugly record which holds that around 46 million people in Nigeria, as at 2015, defecate in the open. Another 56 million people are estimated to be added during the next 10 years. This means a total of 102 million people or 20 million households should have access to a toilet and use it. FG Names LEADERSHIP Lead Campaigner On Open Defecation As part of measures to end open defecation in the country by 2025, which is in line with the revised global target set by the United Nations, the federal government has endorsed LEADERSHIP Group as the lead partner in its nationwide campaign against open defecation. This announcement as the choice of the newspaper for the project made by the minister of Water Resources, Engr. Suleiman Hussein Adamu, was part of the federal government efforts to demonstrate its commitment against the scourge. Adamu said that he was confident that with LEADERSHIP playing the lead role in the initiative, Nigeria would achieve the target of open defecation-free status by 2025. Statistics show that about 47 million Nigerians, almost 25 per cent of the country’s total population, are reported to be practising open defecation, thus making the country the second in the world and first in Africa with such unhealthy practice. The minister, who was received by the publisher of LEADERSHIP, Mr Sam Nda-Isaiah, said that Nigerians must be sensitised on the dangers of open defecation and the need to adopt better hygiene practices. He decried the trend where many public institutions including schools, government offices, markets and motor parks lack public conveniences, thereby making nonsense of government’s efforts to address the issue of open defecation. Adamu said that while the ministry would use advocacy to pass the message of the dangers of open defecation, at some point, it might resort to wielding the stick to ensure compliance. “We want to step up the advocacy by also getting the National Assembly to come up with some form of legislation against open defecation. We also want to create water and sanitation entrepreneurship by encouraging people to set up public toilets and charge a token to maintain them,” he said. The minister said Nigeria is among the nations in the world with the highest number of people practising open defecation, estimated at over 46 million people. He said the practice has had a negative effect on the populace, especially children, in the areas of health and education, and had contributed to the country’s failure to meet the MDG target. He said: ‘’The sanitation situation in the country prompted the National Council on Water Resources in 2014 to prioritize the development of a roadmap towards eliminating open defecation in the country, in line with the United Nations global campaign. ‘’This initiative tagged “Making Nigeria Open Defecation Free by 2025: A National Roadmap,” was developed by the Federal Ministry of Water Resources with invaluable support from UNICEF and other key sector players across Nigeria. In 2016, the National Council on Water Resources endorsed this road map as a means to eliminate open defecation in Nigeria.’’ He noted that the roadmap provides a guide towards achieving an open defecation free country, using different approaches such as capacity development, promotion of improved technology options through sanitation marketing, provision of sanitation facilities in public places, Community-Led Total Sanitation, promotional and media campaigns, creating an enabling environment, and coordination mechanism. According to him, ‘’In this strategy document, an indicative investment required for achieving the roadmap is estimated, showing the cost by the government at all levels and the private sector, especially for the construction of sanitation facilities in public places and the cost by households for construction of household sanitation facilities. The minister declared that the campaign was already yielding results, stressing that, “as of 2017, Nigeria had only one local government that was certified open defecation free, but as we speak, we have 20 local government areas across the country that have been declared open defecation free.” ‘’I am glad to stress that the cost-benefit of investment in sanitation on the health, economic and education sectors cannot be overemphasised as reduction in diarrhoea diseases among children, increased school attendance, reduction in health care cost and job creation for sanitation services will contribute to economic growth and development.’’ He said the roadmap also provides a basis for the development of the Partnership for Expanded Water Supply sanitation (PEWASH) programme which aims to establish a multi-sectoral partnership between government, development partners and the private sector to support the empowerment of rural dwellers in Nigeria through the provision of adequate water supply and sanitation services. While insisting that the target is not insurmountable, Adamu cited the example of India that was the world’s number one in open defecation, but within a space of five years, moved over 500 million people out of it. “Today, India is 100 per cent open defecation free,” he stated. He identified inadequate water supply as a major challenge to Nigeria’s attainment of open defecation free status. According to him, “our rural areas and even the urban centres lack adequate water supply.” He noted that state governments are key to the success of the campaign because they are the ones that should lead the campaign considering their closeness to the people. “Unfortunately, most of the states are just sitting there waiting for the federal government to do everything for them,” he said, and wondered why a state should invest in projects that will make it look like Dubai or London when it has not taken care of the basic needs of the people such as adequate water supply. “I can bet you that if our people adopt good hygiene practices, half of our health problems would have been solved,” Adamu declared. He, therefore, called for total support from the LEADERSHIP Group in the campaign, insisting that sanitation is everybody’s business. Adamu said: “This is a national campaign and everybody must be involved for us to achieve an open defecation free nation by 2025.” While thanking the minister for the choice of LEADERSHIP and his confidence in the ability of the media organisation to lead the campaign, Nda-Isaiah assured him of full support, as he promised that all the titles and subsidiaries of LEADERSHIP Group would be drafted into the campaign. He, therefore, directed all the titles to take the campaign as a major project, noting that it would serve as part of the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).