The Federal Fire Service (FFS) said yesterday, that as part of its preparedness for the maintenance of public safety it has deployed 96 ultra-modern firefighting trucks to high-risk areas in the country. This is as the service also commissioned six  newly delivered modern fire trucks. Controller General, FFS, Dr Liman Ibrahim gave the figure during the passing out parade of the over 2,200 and Fifth Regular Cadet Officers at its academy in Sheda, Abuja. Dr Ibrahim also disclosed that 10 additional fire trucks have arrived Apapa Port but were awaiting Custom’s clearance. This he said is in addition to the renovation and construction works at its zonal headquarters located in Bauchi, Makurdi, Enugu , Uyo, Abeokuta and Kubwa. The Fire Service boss who gave credit to President Muhammadu Buhari whose transformation agenda brought the service back to life said, “Mr. President recognised the need to reposition fire service in Nigeria and approved the recruitment of these cadets we are graduating, as well as the procurement of the 96 sophisticated firefighting trucks.” He said, “As we reap the rewards of a purposeful leadership engendered by the present administration, I commend all those who worked tirelessly to ensure this success”. Dr Ibrahim revealed  that “the Service will in no distant time organise a retreat to fashion out strategies to address challenges arising from ambiguities and gaps in the service status, gaps in National safety code and paucity of funds for fire service operations.” He said, within the limits of available resources, FFS has established six additional zonal commands to bring the total number to 12 across the country and established six training schools in all the geo-political zones. Other achievements reeled out by the CG include ; taking delivery of forty (40) modern firefighting trucks, fifteen (15) water tankers, two mobile workshops, one emergency rescue tender , eight (8)rapid intervention vehicles and relatively significant number of utility vehicles. Speaking at the event, Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola acknowledged that the risk of fire and other emergencies remain the greatest threats to public safety in relation to individuals, critical national infrastructure and the delivery of essential services not to mention the loss of precious lives. While expressing optimism that the new firefighting trucks will aid fire fighters  combat fire related disaster across the country said,  “We need to ensure discipline and encourage our fire fighters to help in safeguarding lives and property.” He urged the new cadets to champion the fight and contribute their quota in fighting disaster in the country. 