There is an indication that Nigeria is losing billions of dollars over illegal tree felling and fraudulent activities of miscreants on the forest resources. Currently, Nigeria is experiencing four percent forest loss annually, which is considered as the highest globally. It was further estimated that 1.5 million trees are felled down daily through illegal logging, thereby leading to 3.5 percent deforestation annually. Surprisingly, the forest cover has been depleted to less than 10 percent as against the mandate of the Food and Agricultural Organizations’ (FAO) that each state is expected to keep its forest cover to a minimum of 25 percent of its land area. In an interview with LEADERSHIP in Abuja, the immediate past director of forestry, federal ministry of environment, Mr Andrew David Adejoh admitted that Nigeria is losing hundreds of billions of dollars to illegal tree felling. He pointed out that a study carried out many years back indicated that the country is losing billions of dollars annually to biodiversity and forest resources. Adejoh said, “We cannot quantify the cost to lives and properties. In monetary terms, it’s in hundreds of billions of dollars. There was a study done many years back in what the country is losing due to biodiversity and forest resources, the quantification was running into billions of dollars annually”. The director hinted that a body, Inter-governmental Policy Platform on Biodiversity & Eco-system Services (IPBES) carried out research and discovered that globally, especially in West African region, recorded a loss of $250 billion annually from forest and biodiversity loss like fisheries in the mangroves and larger ocean bodies, deforestation, as well as other intricacies like the air. He said that the federal department of forestry as an institution and the federal government does not have any forest reserve, saying that no tree belongs to the federal government but to the States and are managed under the land use act. According to him, “What we do at the federal level is to provide guidelines on how they should be managed for the benefit of the country. For illegal felling of trees, we have developed guidelines. For those guidelines, in each State; one of the basic things that happens is before anybody cut a tree from the reserve or forest area, such person must be given a concession plan”. Adejoh disclosed that States issue the concession and monitor it, adding that based on such concession that individuals would be allocated areas to cut and how long they are expected to cut, but regretted that the process is enclosed with illegality. “At the federal level, what we do to stem the illegality is to develop strict guidelines that will ensure that no tree is cut without following due procedure. In due procedure, we look at the chain of custody of the trees, was it taken at the concession area, who granted the concession and was the approved rates paid?”, he added. He noted that since the illegal felled trees are exported out of the country, that federal government developed strict guidelines for exporting wood out of the country, but added that if the trees are Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) listed wood species, that there are other procedures required to export them. The director pointed out that there are trees in the protected areas that are managed by the National Park Service (NPS), saying that the entire trees are 100 percent under strict protection. Explaining further, he added that there are some lands developed by the Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria (FRIN) and also some plantations managed by the Institute. “The National Agency for the Great Green Wall (NAGGW) is working on the frontline states to reforest lands, reclaim decertified areas which are under strict protection or conservation especially the one done by NAGGW, but they have a partnership with the communities who takes care of the trees”, he said. Adejoh emphasized that from 70’s to 90’s, that federal department of forestry had plantation in conjunction with states like in Oluwa and kano, stressing that the plantations have been handed over to States especially as Nigeria is in a democratic regime. He maintained that a forest should be managed under forest management plan that would allow periodic reviews and assessment of the nature of the resources, what is needed to improve on them and the challenges. The director lamented that since the state governments have not only refused to recruit people but also refused to fund their forestry sector, that there are no more forest guards to guard the forests. This he said its reason that miscreants used forest for illicit activities like kidnapping and robbery, noting that the NPS is working assiduously to dissuade the activities of miscreants, but are hampered due to inadequate resources. Adejoh stated that the only national park threatened by miscreants is the Kamuku national parks which is in Birnin-gwari local government area of Kaduna state. “There is also Kwiambana forest reserve in Zamfara state where the miscreants hide. We hear cases in Edo, Abuja- Kaduna expressway where miscreants hide, but because there is no management plan and survey by the state government, then it’s an all comers field”. 