Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has lauded what he described as the foresight of founders of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), for establishing a platform that gives youths across the country opportunity to contribute to nation building. The governor spoke at the Gombe State House of Assembly Complex, where he unveiled a Mace Pedestal facilitated by a Corps member, Aisha Saba Yabagi, as a part of her Community Development Service (CDS).
Yahaya equally gave kudos to the corps member for installing the mace pedestal, charging other NYSC members serving in the state to emulate Yabagi’s foresight and ingenuity.
The governor said his presence at the unveiling ceremony, is to encourage the youths and to further deepen the relationship that exists between his administration and the state’s legislature.
According to Yahaya, the mace pedestal will remain indelible not only in the minds of members of the state House of Assembly, but also to the entire people of the state. He added that his administration would continue to ensure the safety of all Corps members serving in the state, as well as the generality of the people of the state.
Earlier, the speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon. Abubakar Sadiq Ibrahim Kurba, commended Aisha Yabagi for conceiving the idea of constructing the statue, which he described a symbol of parliamentary authority. The facilitator of the project, Aisha Saba Yabagi who hails from Niger State, said the project was as a result of her critical observation and desire to install a statue of authority within the premises of the state House of Assembly. She thanked the governor for creating an enabling environment for the youths in the state to explore their God- given talent and potentials, just as she appreciated the leadership, membership and the management of the state House of Assembly for supporting her to achieve the lofty dream.
While at the state Assembly Complex, Yahaya also performed the foundation laying for the construction of female section of the Assembly Mosque and also planted a tree within the mosque premises in line with his Gombe Goes Green ( 3G) campaign.