The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry has promised to collaborate with the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers to accelerate advocacy for insurance awareness and acceptance by critical segments of the nation’s society. The assurance was given by the President of the Chamber, Mrs. Olubunmi Toki when a delegation of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) under its President, Dr. (Mrs) Bola Onigbogi paid the Chamber a courtesy visit recently. Toki noted that insurance which plays catalytic roles in national economies of most nations is at the butt of Nigeria’s financial services sector, partly due to poor advocacy and strategies for growing the sector and promised that the LCCI would accelerate its interest in strengthening the industry’s public awareness initiatives. Earlier, the President of the NCRIB, Dr. (Mrs) Bola Onigbogi applauded the roles of the LCCI in being the vocal voice for the nation’s economy and advocated the support of the Chamber in the new direction of the Council towards strategic engagement and image management under the new management of the Council’s leadership. Onigbogi opined that insurance brokers who are the professional intermediaries in the insurance value chain could always be engaged by the Chamber to strengthen the businesses of its member companies, especially in the area of risk management and insurance. The NCRIB President disclosed that under the present leadership of the Council the NCRIB has increased its advocacy, particularly on the review of the laws on public procurement and health insurance which are undergoing review by the national assembly. Onigbogi advocated insurance covers for the yearly trade fairs organized by the Chamber and the procurement of health and travel insurance for enhancement of the image of the Chamber and protection of the delegates. Meanwhile, following the fire disaster that ravaged Akesan Market in Oyo town, where properties worth millions of naira were destroyed, insurance brokers, under the auspices of the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers(NCRIB) have charged traders across the country to insure their goods and shops against fire mishap. The Brokers said, insurance remains the best disaster management mechanism, that can return a policyholder back to his financial position he was before the disaster. The Council, however, commended the promise made by the State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde to succour the victims of the incident, as well as the promise to provide firefighting equipment to forestall a repeat of such ugly incidents. NCRIB President, Dr. Bola Onigbogi decried the spate of incessant fire disasters in the country, noting that, such occurrences were preventable by government than those often concerned. According to her, risks are part of the inevitable circumstances of life which  effect could be better managed by engaging insurance as it is practiced in advance countries of the world. However, Onigbogi noted that, to maximise the value of insurance, the best option for existing and potential clients was to engage the services of insurance brokers who are in the position to advise clients on best possible type and rate of insurance as well as assist them to make their claims when a loss occurs. She called on government to always embrace insurance for effective prudential management and to assist the citizens by shifting the burden of compensation to insurers when loses occur to them as against government attitude of giving succour to the victims which in most cases may be inadequate.