Minister for Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire has disclosed that progress is being made in the production of vaccines for Lassa Fever. LEADERSHIP recalls that the death toll from Lassa fever in Nigeria since the beginning of January has risen to 41 as cases were confirmed in more regions. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said Tuesday that from January 1 to January 26 a total of 258 confirmed cases, including five health workers, were reported across 19 states. However while declaring open, a meeting of state commissioners of health organised by the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF), the health minister said breakthrough for the vaccines is imminent. He also disclosed that about 27 states of the federation has recorded cases of lassa fever as at the last count, adding that the government was doing a lot in terms of prevention. He said “I thank states for the cooperation the government have received in an effort to tackle lassa fever which has reached about 27 states as at the last count and also to have ensured that the popular Corona virus has not entered Nigeria.” “Progress is being made in the production of vaccines for Lassa Fever. He also said Nigeria has not reached the level of providing the quality of health required to meet its population. We know that our country health system does not yet provide the level of quality of service required to meet the population.” Noting that Nigeria was far from reaching the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), The Minister explained “For instance, the maternal mortality rate of 512 per 100,000 live birth and under 5 morality rate of 132 per thousand birth, that we are far away from reaching sustainable development goal.” Ehanere said with the right approach, appeal, and strategic use of data and resources the country can achieve the strategic development goal. He maintained that the country has the potential to becoming a major player in the global economy by virtue of it’s human resource, natural resources and endowment, adding that the government is focused on investment in human capital development. According to him, the development of a functional healthcare system is the foundation of health care which he said must be complemented by a strong secondary health care system. “The policy requires that you develop the primary, secondly and a functional health system in every local government area of the state. When all these are not put in place, the connectivity is lost.” he stated. The Minister urged state commissioners for health to make their governors understand that secondary level of healthcare is as important as the primary one also. On his part, the Director General of NGF, Asishana Okauru in his remarks acknowledged the ongoing efforts of the Federal Government to revitalize primary healthcare in Nigeria. Okauru who was represented by Chijioke Chuku, also added that primary healthcare remains the pillar of the healthcare system. Okauro disclosed that the Governors and the two Foundations has made commitments aimed at promoting stronger collaboration between the Governors, the NPHCDA, Federal Ministry of Health and Development partners to move the needle and transform primary healthcare at the subnational level.