The Federal Commissioner, National Commission For Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Sen. Basheer Garba Mohammed on Wednesday advocated for joint bilateral agreements with the Germany government for the promotion of more regular migration. Mohammed said this yesterday in a press conference in Abuja during the visit of the German Delegation On Migration Issues to Nigeria. He said Nigeria is a significant country in global migration discourse and has been actively involved in different and varied levels of the migration governance processes. ” It is not surprising therefore that your Delegation’s visit to us is an integral part of the first phase of your country -Germany`s National Action Plan for integration.” According to him,  the large movement of refugees and migrants precipitated by the Syria crisis and similar migration waves in other regions of the world reached its alarming level in 2015 and increased the worries associated with global migration management. Seeking a sustainable response with sustainable impact to the reality. “The international community negotiated and adopted the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. ” The Compact is a set of common frameworks and guiding principles that cover all dimensions of international migration, providing  for international cooperation and collaboration in responsibility sharing towards a better management of global migration for the benefit of the individual migrants and the countries involved.” He added that the aspiring migrants need to be equipped with the necessary skills, learn and understand the processes of regular migration. In all this will hopefully reduce the risks being taken by Nigerian men, women and children currently crossing the Sahara Desert and Mediterranean Sea, he said. “Nigeria continues to monitor and regularly assess the implementation of its migration policies, as a country we understand that policies alone will not respond to why people move or don’t move without involving all other aspects of development and social life. Since then, we have setup an internal national mechanism that actively harnesses and curates local opportunities within various sectors that strengthens economic stability and interventions for our millions of youths thereby renewing their hope in Nigeria. ” Responding, the Minister of State in the Federal Chancellery and Federal Government Commissioner for Migration, Refugees and Integration, Annette Widmann-Mauz who said Nigeria is such a young country with enormous professional talents in diverse areas ranging from Engineering, Medical and others which we are trying to inform them how they can be integrated properly through bilateral relationship between the two countries. She however said that German Labour needs to be integrated, Germany needs labour force and Nigeria is seen as a viable country to boost its labour force , adding that the bilateral relationship shall help to address the irregular migration commonly noticed in recent times. 