The dean, School of Communication, Lagos State University (LASU), Professor Rotimi Olatunji, has advocated a more matured, consensual and disciplined relationship among lecturers and students that find interest in each other, saying dating is different from sex for mark syndrome in varsities. The varsity don who stated this in a chat with LEADERSHIP condemned all forms of ethical misconduct, sex for grades, amongst other forms of illegalities in the highest standard of education and ethics. Olatunji said, “I don’t believe in decreeing that lecturers should not be in a relationship with students. Human nature cannot be mechanical, you can’t decree human nature and emotions but you can decree moral practices. “I am married and don’t engage in dating a student but I must point out that many good marriages have come out of the university including lecturers marrying their students, students marrying their lecturers depending on the levels and maturity. The real issue is carrying out your official duty that cannot affect your personal relationship with staffs or students.” He added, “As long as lecturers are not compromising their professional conduct and relationship, as long as they are not abusing their privilege position in whatever capacity whether sexual activities or extortion of money, they can have a relationship. If otherwise, LASU for one has existing regulation guiding the institution in that respect and certainly anyone breaching the code will face the penalty.” In a swift reaction, a 500 level Law student of LASU, Wunmi Elegbede pointed out that the code of ethics guiding the academic staffs in her institution is very discreet, professional and diplomatic and doesn’t give much room for lecturer/student dating; adding that once a student starts to date a lecturer, she exposes herself to both forms of sexual harassment and sex for grades. Also speaking with LEADERSHIP, the Coordinator, Centre for Information, Press and Public Relations (CIPPR) of Lagos State University (LASU), Ademola Adekoya revealed that the university has zero tolerance for illicit sexual behaviours of lecturers with students where guidelines of the code of conduct is in students handbook.