Coming from a decline of 14.60 per cent loss in 2019, the Nigerian equities market ended the first month of the year 2020 on a strong positive note as investors’ investment went up by N1.899 trillion. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) policy restricting local non-bank corporates and retail investors from participating in the Open Market Operation (OMO) market resulted in a sharp decline in Financial Instrument (FI) yields firmly into single-digit territory, which presented a positive case for equities as market selloffs in recent years have provided an opportunity for dividend yield investment strategy. Capital market analysts expected the year 2020 to be a favourable year for equities against the backdrop of low interest rate environment. According to analysts, this is because companies would be able to access funds at cheaper cost, thus reducing their interest expense and positively impacting their bottom lines. “Also, investors are expected to make a switch from fixed income securities yielding negative real returns to equities presenting positive real returns both in terms of dividend yields as well as possible capital appreciation especially in the first quarter of 2020.” Speaking on the market performance for January, the managing director, Cowry Asset Management Limited, Mr Johnson Chukwu stated that the interest rates on Treasury Bill (T-bill) crashed to a very low rate in January. We show a 90-day T-Bill drop to two per cent and 364-day bills T-Bill dropping to less than five per cent. According to Chukwu, that alone attracted investors into the equities market. Again, expectation of results to be declared on the NSE also attracted local and foreign investors’ participation in companies that always declare dividend. “Mind you, the restriction in Open Market Operation (OMO) by Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) drives investment from fixed income securities to equities market, Chukwu said. “Liquidity that should go to OMO instrument was invested in equities which were a plus for retail investors. Also, the Banks crashed their deposit rate on fixed deposit. So investors were looking for instrument they felt had prospect for good income.” Research analyst at Investment One Financial Services Limited, Mr Abayomi Ajayi also said that the major contributor to increase to equities market in January will be the CBN’s crashed in T-bill rates to a single digit due to OMO restriction. “If you look at the NSE, it has been on a decline for the second consecutive year which makes fundamental stocks to trade at a cheaper price and dividend yield on stocks has been attractive. So, it makes sense for local investors to invest in equities market and position for the earnings season. The chief operating officer, InvestData Limited, Ambrose Omordion attributed the growth to activities of investors who anticipate higher dividend yields, saying that local institutional investors and funds managers are taking advantage of the two consecutive years of decline to reposition their portfolios for the New Year expectations. He stated that investors were optimistic that the current economic recovery would likely to continue, thereby resulting in enhanced dividend yields higher than the prevailing money market rates. Omordion added that the listing of BUA Cement of 33.86 billion ordinary shares at N35 per share contributed to the growth of the stock market in January, noting further that the rise in oil price in the global market due to the conflict between the United States of America and Iran contributed to the stock market trend. The chief executive officer of Sofunix Investment and Communications Limited, Mr Sola Oni, said the market operated under a tough economic climate in 2019 as evident in incessant bearish trend until the policy of the Central Bank of Nigeria on Open Market Operations (OMO) crashed yields on fixed income securities. “Expectedly, investors took flight for safety and reverted to purchase of equities with multiplier effects on the rise in many performance indicators. The NSE remains an investment destination,” he said.