President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated commitment of his government to implement recommendations of second cycle Review of the country, says Princess Gloria Akobundu, Chief Executive Officer, African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) Nigeria after she led leaders of APRM Continental and other Country offices to a courtesy visit to the President. Akobundu disclosed on Thursday in a media chat at the beginning of 2-Day session titled `Broad Sensitisation/Training Session on sharing experiences for the Second Peer review’ which ends on Friday for APRM Nigeria’s structures by APRM Continental and Country Offices that had undergone 2nd Review. According to her, the country is ready for the review exercise, Nigerians at all level of government should give their maximum supports. “President Buhari reiterated his support for the exercise when APRM and diplomatic delegates visited him. Mr. President has been supporting the exercise through establishment of required structures like National Governing Council. “The Country’s second Review has been gaining tremendous supports from the policy makers, the general public should endeavour to follow suit by giving useful information, capable of aiding great development during the exercise,” she said. Similarly, the Senate President, Ahmed lawan, represented by Sen. Chimaroke Nnamani assured the APRM Secretariat of necessary legislative backings. “The National Assembly (NASS) will cooperate through legislative backing, ensure participation of all stakeholders for the success of Peer Review process because it is a veritable tool for self-based economic development. It is achieved through experience sharing, identifying deficiencies for better planning. “ NASS will give expeditious hearing to the passage of AUDA-NEPAD Transformation bill to an act so that it can function effectively in line with its continental objectives,” he said. Similarly, Hon. Mohammed Umar Bago, representing Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, expressed commitment of the House of Representative to the exercise. The secretary to the Government of the Federation and Nigeria’s Focal Point, Mr. Boss Mustapha, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Political and economic Affairs, Office of the SGF, Mr. Andrew Adejo, said Nigeria would continue to strengthen its presence in the fold of APRM nations. “ APRM is a good initiative that seeks to deepen democracy, accountability and good governance. APRM has progressed significantly since 2003 and Nigeria has been part of that progression, Permit me to lead the country to ensure effective impact of the exercise,” he said. The SGF however urged member states to live up to expectation  in terms of financial obligation so that APRM could be more effective. “Member states should remit their dues to further capacitate the mechanism to deliver more on its mandates”. In his opening statement, Ambassador Ashraf Rashed, Egyptian Focal Point urged Nigerians to make best use of APRM experience sharing platform in order to subdue challenges during the exercise proper. Experts in Peer Review process from APRM Continental and country offices that had undergone 2nd Cycle Review were at the session to share experience with Nigerian Focal points at all levels, NGC, National secretariat, State Coordinators etc. for the success of the exercise proper. As the Review exercise proper expected to commence across the six geo-political  zones of the country, Nigeria’s 2nd Review Process was scheduled to be completed in August, 2020. Kenya, Mozambique and Uganda, among the countries that had undergone the process. APRM was established from the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, NEPAD which later transformed to African Union Development Agency, AUDA-NEPAD in 2003. It is a voluntary self-assessment instrument for member states, over 38 countries, including Nigeria, have adopted it for their development assessment. 