Following the gazetting of the Finance Act that institutes the increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT) to 7.5 per cent and seeks to increase the revenue of the country, the federal government have been urged to ensure compliance as investors are worried about the revenue stream of the country. Chief economist, Africa and Middle East for Standard Chartered Bank Group, Razia Khan, speaking in Lagos at the weekend, noted that foreign investors are worried about the low level of government revenue in Nigeria and the implication for the country’s ability to service its debt. Commending the recent measures by the federal government to drive an increase in revenue, she said foreign investors are more concerned about the effectiveness of the measures in raising revenues. She noted that while Nigeria still has the lowest VAT amongst its peers, compliance has been low. “The VAT increase is the obvious solution but it was not obvious at the time that it was going to be implemented,” she said. “Even though some will argue that 7.5 per cent is not really that high, it is still way below the regional peers, but it is a step in the right direction and if tax compliance be tightened at the same time, this will ultimately be positive.” Although, there had been concerns about the rising rate of the country’s debt, Khan said investors are not fixated about the size of Nigeria’s debt stock but on level of government revenue. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) reported that the nation’s total debt rose from N25.70 trillion in March 2019 to N26.14 trillion by the end of September 2019. According to her, Nigeria must achieve significant growth in revenue otherwise the investors will demand higher returns on loans to the country. “It is very clear from the concerns outlined by Fitch and Moody’s last year that one thing that Nigeria will have to do in a big way is revenue mobilization,” she said, adding, “Nigeria’s problem is a revenue problem, until you don’t do anything on revenue, then everyone focuses on debt. A very key metric everyone needs to pay attention to is the revenue to debt service ratio. We think the fiscal authorities are already reacting to this. They have already outlined their intention to seek more concessionary sources of financing wherever they are available. “So, I think there is this realisation at the finance and budget ministry level that the way to keep on borrowing to be able to drive spending intent is not unlimited and that Nigeria needs to show an immediate difference in controlling the near term cost of debt service and especially in terms of ramping up the revenue. “It is not that they can do one part of that equation without looking at the other. You have to do both at the same time. This is because if there is no revenue growth, then even the amount of credit that creditors are previously willing to lend or investors are previously willing to put into the debt market, there will be a demand for higher returns if the risks are higher because revenue growth is just not there.” Khan noted further that regardless the measures being taken to mobilise revenue, the new minimum wage increase will affect the finances of the States. “We have seen some announcements of minimum wage increase. It is clear that something needs to be done to address the challenges that will be created to state government finances,” Khan said. 