Kogi State governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, has ordered the state’s Auditor-General, Alhaji Yakub Okala, to conduct a forensic audit of the state’s specialist hospital, university as well as ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) that have allegedly failed to comply with the directive on Treasury Single Account (TSA). Bello gave the order yesterday at the state executive council meeting held at the exco hall of the Government House in Lokoja. The governor had earlier directed the Chief Medical Director of Kogi State Specialist Hospital, Lokoja; Kogi State University Teaching Hospital, Anyingba; Vice Chancellor, Kogi State University Anyingba, and Rector, Kogi State Polytechnic, Lokoja to proceed on an indefinite suspension over alleged non remittance to the TSA. Governor Bello told the state executive council members that he swore to an oath to serve the people transparently and would ensure that he and other government officials adhere to the sacred oath. Accordingly, he directed that the report of the audit should be submitted within 30 days, noting that the outcome would determine if those concerned would keep their jobs. Governor Bello said the audit should be within the period when those affected were in charge of affairs at their respective MDAs or institutions. Briefing journalists after the state executive council meeting, the state commissioner for Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo said the governor was determined to ensure accountability and transparency in the system. According to him, government will sanction any organisation that violates government’s anti-corruption policies. Fanwo disclosed that the governor also reiterated the determination of his government to ensure that the newly created Ministry Of Solid Minerals rakes in enough revenue to power government programmes and projects. He said, “The Kogi State government is poised to use the newly created Ministry Of Solid Minerals to compete effectively in the mineral exploration world”. “To this end, the deputy governor of the state, Chief Edward Onoja has been directed to ensure the Ministry starts on a strong footing”. Also speaking at the briefing, commissioner for Health, Dr Saka Haruna said Council approved the upgrading and rehabilitation of three hospitals across the three senatorial districts as well as the establishment of Psychiatric Department at the State Specialist Hospital, Lokoja. “The state executive council today, approved the establishment of more departments in the State Specialist Hospital, Lokoja. Also, Council has approved the upgrading and rehabilitation of hospitals in Okene, Idah and Kabba. The spread of the project is in line with the policy of the New Direction Administration to spread projects equitably”, he added.