The 20 local government caretaker committee chairmen in Bauchi state have been handed down a matching order to either perform diligently or get their appointments terminated, the state governor has said. The governor gave the order when he received in audience, the caretaker chairmen who paid a congratulatory visit for winning the Supreme Court case.
The Caretaker Chairmen led by the State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Abdulrazak Nuhu Zaki visited him at the Council Chamber, Government House Bauchi. The governor who expressed disappointed on the inability of some of the caretaker chairmen to deliver as expected, said henceforth, he will not tolerate such act. “I am disappointed on your inability to respect our elders or to hold meetings with stakeholders in your various Local Government Areas. “You should be careful, you are not there to think it is Money venture opportunity, its opportunity for you to serve the people. “Majority of our supporters and people who voted us into power are under you, expecting good governance from you.” The governor who charged them to consider themselves as his representatives in their respective areas, enjoined them to work in close collaboration with elders and other critical stakeholders to ensure effective service delivery. “The recent suspension of the 2 Caretaker Chairmen is not because we don’t like them, but they have engaged in the act that we must sanction them, I’m aware that most of you are doing more than that of the suspended chairmen, but I will give you opportunity to change if not you would also be suspended.” He expressed satisfaction on the performance of some of the chairmen especially for tackling the issue of ghost workers, and appealed to all of them to be useful to their people by improving their living conditions. “You must respect the common man, we were voted to serve our people, may Almighty Allah provide us with resources to enable us meet their huge expectations”, the Governor pointed out.
Governor Bala who pledged to release more funds to the Local Government Caretaker Chairmen, called on them to put aside political or religious differences in the implementation of their various developmental projects. The State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Abdulrazak Nuhu Zaki assured the governor that all the Chairmen will ensure total compliance with the government’s directive. Speaking on behalf of the 20 Caretaker Chairmen, Caretaker Chairman, Bauchi Local Government who reaffirmed their loyalty by being supportive to the governor promised to redouble their efforts towards meeting the needs of their people.