Former Minister of Communications, Barrister Adebayo Shittu has kicked against the nomination of the immediate former governor of Oyo State, Senator Abiola Ajimobi as the new Deputy National Chairman, South of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Ajimobi replaces the former governor of Ekiti State Otunba Niyi Adebayo who is now a minister. His appointment was ratified on Wednesday after the APC South West caucus meeting held a meeting in Osogbo, Osun State. Although there were pockets of protest against his choice by party delegates from Ekiti State who intended to present another nomination from the state. Shittu, who had a long political rivalry with the former governor, described Ajimobi’s choice as a bad luck for the party. According to him, Ajimobi’s choice is a “Very bad luck for our dear party, APC, in Oyo State and South West Nigeria as a whole. “That somebody whose bad luck led to APC losing Oyo State to the less fancied PDP in the 2019 gubernatorial and state assembly elections in the state is now being recycled and foisted on APC in Yorubaland is most insensitive. “What democratic credentials is Abiola Ajimobi bringing on board when, as a two time governor, the self styled ‘constituted authority’ never, for once, allowed democratic party primaries to hold in Oyo State APC and, over his said two terms as governor, only organised what, at best, was a kangaroo local government election of officials who were merely hand -picked by Ajimobi to become APC Candidates”, he said. Former governor Abiola Ajimobi will replace former governor Niyi Adebayo as deputy national chairman (south) of the All Progressives Congress, APC. The appointment, it was learnt, was reached at Tuesday’s caucus meeting of the southwest APC which held in Osogbo. Hon. Afeez Bolaji Repete, who is the state’s nominee in the national executive of the party, was said to have tendered his resignation at the meeting to pave way for Ajimobi’s emergence. While Repete would become the special adviser to Ajimobi, the only post attached to the office of the deputy national chairman, Ekiti caucus was expected to nominate a replacement for the position of deputy national youth leader which he is vacating. 