In current debates on whether the federal government still has lifeline to accommodate more borrowings before the prudential limits for fiscal consolidation, MARK ITSIBOR on finding an optimal debt-to-GDP ratio When the Monetary Policy Committee of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) rose from its 2-day meeting last week with a message to the federal government – to exercise some level of caution over the nation’s rising level of public debt which it noted was rising faster than both her domestic and external revenue, that only reinforced earlier warnings of such from home and abroad to the fiscal authorities. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is one of those who believe that Nigeria’s public debt to its gross domestic product (GDP) ratio was risky and cannot be guaranteed going forward. The admonition to the fiscal authorities is that, it shouldn’t be carried away by the fact that its debt-to-GDP ratio is still within the 25 per cent debt limit set by the government. But any cause for concern? Nigeria’s total debt as a percentage of GDP was 18.47 per cent as at September 2019, which the director-general of the Debt Management Office, Ms Patience Oniha said was well within the limit of 25 per cent self-imposed limit of the current administration; and fares better in comparison with the Debt/GDP ratios of countries such as the United States of America, United Kingdom and Canada with ratios of 105 per cent, 85 per cent and 90 per cent respectively for the same period. The total public debt, comprising the debts of the FGN, 36 States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as at September 2019 stood at N26.215 trillion, according to official data. The comparative figure for September 2018 was N25.701 trillion which implies that in the 12 months period to September 2019 the total public debt grew by 16.88 per cent. Ms Oniha also agreed with the MPC when she said because the cited economies generate adequate revenues, their Debt Service/Revenue Ratios for the same period were much lower at 12.5 per cent, 7.5 per cent and 7.5 per cent respectively when compared to Nigeria’s 51 per cent in 2017. The September figure however includes Promissory Notes in the amount of N812.650 billion which had been issued to settle the FGN’s arrears to Oil Marketing Companies and State Governments under the Promissory Programme approved by the Federal Executive Council and the National Assembly. But unlike the fiscal authorities who often allay concerns over the rising rate of debt profile, the MPC members cautioned that public debt was rising faster than both domestic and external revenue, noting the need to tread cautiously in interpreting the debt to GDP ratio. The Committee also noted the rising burden of debt services and urged the Fiscal Authorities to strongly consider building buffers by not sharing all the proceeds from the Federation Account at the monthly FAAC meetings to avert a macroeconomic downturn, in the event of an oil price shock. No general optimal debt-to-GDP ratio The fact is that there is no general optimal debt-to-GDP ratio. The debt-to-GDP ratio is like benchmarks which typically emanate from technical work undertaken by IMF and other global financial/economic institutions. That implies that such benchmarks are not often officially endorsed by countries in designing fiscal policy. Countries set benchmarks or debt limits for their economies. According to Investopedia, by comparing what a country owes with what it produces, the debt-to-GDP ratio reliably indicates that particular country’s ability to pay back its debts. That exposes the bold confidence in the fiscal authorities who strongly hold on to the conviction that the Nigerian economy his not crossing the limit that is capable of threatening fiscal sustainability because of its ability to continue paying interest on its debt without hampering economic growth. According to IMF report of 2010, for developing and emerging economies, 40 per cent is the suggested debt-to-GDP ratio that should not be breached on a long-term basis; while a debt-to-GDP ratio of 60 per cent is quite often noted as a prudential limit for developed countries. There is financial panic in domestic and international markets alike when a country defaults on its debt. Despite that, however safe for the fiscal authorities to say there is no need for fears because it has not hit the prudential limits of debt stock, the guiding rule is that, the higher a country’s debt-to-GDP ratio climbs, the higher its risk of defaults becomes. It can be difficult for the Nigerian government – Federal and States to achieve the aim of lowering their debt-to-GDP ratios during this period of drop in revenue generation. But the Godwin Emefiele-led MPC would prefer the Zainab Ahmed-led economic team of the federal government find more innovative ways of improving revenue generation and strongly consider building buffers, than engaging in more borrowings to funds its expenses. As Oniha would note, the low revenue base of Nigeria relative to its GDP is clearly reflected in the high Debt Service to Revenue Ratio. For her, this clearly brings to fore, the need for revenues to grow. The efforts towards increasing and diversifying revenue such as the passage of the Finance Act and Strategic Revenue Growth Initiative of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning should thus be supported.