In this chat with select journalists, the chairman of the Governing Council, Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Oron, Sen Ademola Seriki speaks on the successes recorded under the watch of the Rector, Commodore Emmanuel Duja Effedua (Rtd). YUSUF BABALOLA was there for LEADERSHIP The Academy recently embarked on restructuring, what is your take on it? The Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, today, is driven by the management and the governing council who are passionate about marks of excellence.  We have passion for the academy and the willingness to engage the government. Today, the academy is funded by not just government, but from private quarters and agencies who support the drive for excellence by the management of the academy.  The Nigerian Navy gave us two boats to use for training. It is not just about writing in the classroom, but getting involved using the facilities such as the boats for practical learning. Now, we have simulators and the training vessels these all came because people have seen the zeal and commitment of the governing council and the management. I will tell you that whatever we have achieved so far, the credit goes to the members and the rector and the management team.  How soon are the training vessels arriving? The training vessels have are coming in as corporate social responsibility (CSR) of a third party. There is an agency known as Oil Producers Trade Sector (OPTS) and we have spoken to them, and really, it is just a matter of concluding the matter with them and we will take delivery of the vessels. The Ministry of Transport does not have such money to give us for training vessels. We had to look out as to who can provide this for us, and we have been considering all necessary areas. Personally, I am talking to Mr Tony Attah of Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG), I am talking to the OPTS and they are ready to use the little they can afford to give to us. They are ready to help us. It is not government only that would sustain the academy.  Could you please lead us into the ongoing capacity building programme for staff? Global accreditation is what we know, we have to step up our game. Even, the category we are fighting for has to do with what the academy’s human capacity and training has. The 15 teaching staff sent on training on how to handle the simulators would come back well built in the capacity for handling simulators, and more staff would go. It is part of capacity building. You cannot compare where we are today to where the academy was three years ago. We have been able to build all these. The right drive is actually growing and sustaining the academy.  Are you saying there may be no need sending cadets abroad for the seatime training again? If we have what it takes locally in terms of infrastructure to train the cadets, then there would be no need for that. There is no way an academy would have simulators and training vessels that it cannot survive on its own. In fact, those foreign training would come as gratis, because we would be competing with our international counterparts. When I got back two years ago to the academy, my concern was the performance, because after this time, people would ask you what did you achieve? I want to look back and say we were able to have training vessels and simulators because they are key in the training of the cadets for them to have rich capacity. And with that, they can be exposed to a lot of things and they would have jobs. The domino effect of it is limitless.  What about seatime collaboration with local shipowners? Our cadets have started having seatime experience with the Ship Owners Association of Nigeria (SOAN) and they spent four months. The last batch of cadets just got back on 20th December, 2019. Will you at this time call for a review of the Academy’s funding? We are due to five per cent of the gross revenue from the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). As long as that is paid, there should not be a problem. Yet, no institution is fully funded by government alone in any African country. We are not where we want to be yet, that is why we are looking at possible areas of support, like the international oil companies (IOCs), because they are the drivers of OPTS. So, they have some soft money meant for human capacity development, we tap into that for the support we can get. MAN, Oron has never sought such money before but now, we are ready to seek for it.  What’s your impression about the award as the best maritime training institution award? The award is well appreciated. But to whom much is given, much is expected. We have been given the opportunity among the council members and the rector who is the driver of our feat. I am a proud MAN, Oron Governing Board chairman, and with my members we say thank you and we will not be complacent. When you are given an award, it is a challenge to step up your game. I thank the rector for being up to the task given him and he has laid a standard others would aspire to keep up with.  What is the modalities in place for maintenance of the simulators? I am sure there would be service agreement, so nothing to be afraid of regarding maintenance of the equipment.  How can these latest upgrade in the academy support Nigeria’s quest for a council position in the IMO? This is a segment of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) consideration, human capacity and training. It is not the entire evaluation to determine the category. In any case, the category is political because there are permanent members. It is just like the Security Council of the United Nations. We in Africa must step up our game so we can compete with international counterparts.  What are the future plans for the Academy? The future beholds a lot for us as an academy. In fact, it is limitless. Step by step, we have to continue. By this time next year, there would be more improvement.