The federal government has opened section III of the Abuja-Kano Expressway to motorists following its completion by Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, the contractor handling the project. It was handed over to the government on Thursday by the firm in line with Clause 48 (2) (b) of the standard condition of contract for road works and also in accordance with the procedure for partial handing over of works. In a statement issued on the ceremony, Julius Berger said that the partial hand over was done to ease the travel experience of motorists plying the road even as work progresses on the remaining part of the highway. The event took place at work zone 11 located in Kwanar Dangora, in Gwarmai Town of Bebeji local government area Kano State in section III of the road which when fully completed will connect Zaria to Kano. The federal government team at the ceremony was led by Engr. F. B. Esan, director, North-West, Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, who described the completed portion as “…a well-built road that can withstand any level of traffic.” Esan also commended the company for its commitment to quality job and for the timely and successful delivery of the Abuja-Kano Road. He assured the communities present at the event and the motorists who parked their vehicles to witness the ceremony, that the government being ever mindful of the need to maintain safety and convenience of both the communities and travellers directly affected by the ongoing works, would from time to time accept the handover of completed portions of the road by the contractor. Works completed within the portion handed over to the government consist of milling of the existing asphaltic surfacing; cement stabilisation of existing subgrade; provision of 150mm Bitumen stabilized material; provision of tack coat; provision of 80mm binder course on carriageway using modified bitumen as directed. The completed works also include the provision of 40mm asphaltic wearing course using modified bitumen on carriageway as directed. Temporary road markings have also been installed for safety purposes. The federal government awarded the Abuja-Kano Road project contract on January 2, 2018 with a completion period of 36 months.