The Emir of Borgu, Dr. Muhammad Haliru Dantoro has decried the spate of environmental challenges affecting some parts of the country, with a call on Environmental Media Correspondents Association of Nigeria (EMCAN) to actively engage relevant stakeholders and government to halt the crisis. Dantoro who stated this in Abuja when he received the officials of the association, led by the Conservator-General of the National Parks Service (NPS), Dr. Ibrahim Goni, enjoined them to actualize its vision of tackling various forms of environmental degradation in the country. Dantoro stressed the need for federal government to explore the potentials of the national parks spread across the country, adding that if the natural resources and immense potentials of the parks is harnessed, that it would strengthen government’s diversification agenda and boost Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). He was optimistic that if the needed resources are channeled in upgrading the park, that it would provide employment opportunities for the teeming youths, even as the areas or towns where the parks are domiciled would witness rapid transformation and socio-economic growth. The EMCAN delegation however presented the Emir with a letter of appointment as a member of the association’s Advisory Board. The first-class traditional leader in Niger State, while accepting the offer, pledged to support EMCAN and continue to champion the cause for a healthy environment not only within his emirate, but across the country. He promised to involve the association in special activities, to be organized by his emirate, as part of showcasing the socio-cultural heritage of his people. Earlier, the EMCAN Chairman, Mr. Chuks Oyema lauded the Emir’s outstanding leadership qualities and vision to sustain the legacies of his late father, who was the immediate-past Mai Borgu. Oyema noted that EMCAN had since its formation continued to engage key stakeholders and is already partnering with relevant organisations to address the myriads of challenges affecting the environment. 