Sajid Javid has resigned as chancellor as Boris Johnson carries out a post-Brexit cabinet reshuffle. Mr Javid rejected an order to fire his team of aides, saying “no self-respecting minister” could accept such a condition. He has been replaced as chancellor by Chief Secretary to the Treasury Rishi Sunak – who just seven months ago was a junior housing minister. Mr Javid had been due to deliver his first Budget in four weeks’ time. The former home secretary was appointed chancellor by Mr Johnson when he became prime minister in July. His resignation follows rumours of tensions between Mr Javid and the prime minister’s senior adviser Dominic Cummings. “He has turned down the job of chancellor of the exchequer,” a source close to Mr Javid, who had been expected to remain in place, said. “The prime minister said he had to fire all his special advisers and replace them with Number 10 special advisers to make it one team. The chancellor said no self-respecting minister would accept those terms.” In other reshuffle moves: Paymaster General Oliver Dowden is the new culture secretary, replacing Baroness Morgan
Northern Ireland Secretary Julian Smith and Business Secretary Andrea Leadsom have been sacked
Housing Minister Esther McVey and Environment Secretary Theresa Villiers are also out of the government
Attorney General Geoffrey Cox was asked to resign by the PM
Priti Patel remains as Home Secretary
Dominic Raab remains as Foreign Secretary
Michael Gove remains in his role as minister for the Cabinet Office Health Secretary Matt Hancock is staying in his post, and Liz Truss will carry on as international trade secretary and minister for women and equalities. International Development Secretary Alok Sharma has been appointed business secretary and minister for the upcoming climate conference COP26, in Glasgow. He is being replaced at the international development department by junior defence minister Anne-Marie Trevelyan. Boris Johnson is expected to appoint a new minister to oversee the building of the HS2 rail line, final approval for which was given this week.