The Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been enmeshed in crisis for a long time. ADEWALE AJAYI, in this report, considers the efforts being made to ensure peace and unity in the state chapter of the party There is no doubt that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is the most viable alternative platform to the ruling party All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State. Although the people of the state had looked up to the PDP as a check to the overbearing posture of the ruling party, their effort at ensuring they win elections have always amounted to nought. Reasons have been adduced for the poor performance of the major opposition party in the state. While some punditsopine that the opposition party is not as popular as it claims to be  in Lagos, others argue that the ruling party is well entrenched and that the PDP is a Lilliputian compared to the APC which is seen as a political colossus in the state. There is also the claim that the role of fifth columnist have been responsible for PDP’s  abysmal performance. The mole in the party were never interested in working for the success of the party, rather their concern is the advancement of the party in power, where their interest lies. The inability of the PDP to make a headway has made some of its members to become disillusioned and quit the party, while the internal wrangling in the party has pitched the members against one another. The belief is that those group of people working against the interest of the party should be fished out and dealt with. Another problem confronting the party is the dominant factor some felt they command honour and respect in the party and as such when it comes to sharing of position or any largesse that accrue to the party they  should be given  preference. That problem had been a recurring issue since it’s formation in 1998, then Primrose group (a political group formed by late General  Shehu Musa  Yar’Adua) led by Chief Dapo Sarumi was calling the shots and new members complained they were denied sense of belonging. It however took a spirited effort to allow the new entrants to have sense of belonging. When Chief Olabode George became the party’s arrow head, his group establishment, was having an edge over other caucus in the state, and they positioned for jucy positions. This development brought about bad blood, which forced some to quit the party. Some members are of the view that, it is an insult for an individual to determine the path a party will thread, without recourse to other members of the party,who have also paid their dues. This development contributed  to a depletion in its membership. In the last one year some prominent members of the party,  including Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, Hon Adegoke Salvador who re-signed his position as the state chairman alongside members of his group, Hon Tajudeen Agoro former State chairman of National Poverty Eradication Program (NAPEP) and a host of others have left the party, while others who are aggrieved but still remain in the party fold decided to sit on the fence. This situation has led to the APC chairman in Lagos State, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, to declare that PDP is not destined to win elections in the state. Balogun, who spoke at the APC secretariat in Ikeja when he received hundreds of PDP defectors, late last year, said the APC was determined to obliterate the PDP from the political map of Lagos State. He said the defectors had decided to join the APC because of the purposeful leadership the party had been giving to Lagosians in the last 20 years. Top among the defectors, who were given the APC flag, were a former Minister of Works and Housing, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, and his son, Moyo, a former PDP leader in Ikeja constituency, Mutiu Okunola, Alhaji Raman Falawe (Lagos Island), Jebe Dayo (Mushin), Adeoye Shamolu (Ojo), Jaiye Agoro (Lagos Mainland), Sukanmi Fabiyi (Apapa) and Arisekola Afeez (Accord Party, Mushin), among others. Balogun, who referred to the new members as eminent Lagosians, said they had all been registered and issued the party cards at their various wards. He said, “We have gathered today to formally receive to the PDP leaders that have come to join the APC. Most of them were leaders, some of whom were former members of the state House of Assembly, while others have contested for various positions and got defeated by APC candidates. So, they have realised that it pays them to be with the progressives. “Their coming will strengthen our party. Politics is a game of number and since they have come in thousands they will add to our votes and our strength. No APC member has joined the PDP but they (PDP) have always joined us. They have joined us because of good governance. They all have the potentials to be who they want to become in the APC,” the APC chairman boasted. With the new executive council members in place led by Engineer Deji Doherty, the party seems to be making frantic efforts to reconcile its members, while it also appealed to those that have quit the party to reconsider their stand and return to the party. The new exco was brought about by the collective interest of members of the party and not dictated to them by an individual. Doherty in his inaugural speech charged members of the party sitting on the fence and those who have left the party to come back into the party fold and join hands with him to move the party forward. He also commended Dr Abimbola Ogunkelu reconciliation committee for the good work done so far by taking time to meet with all factions in the party across the 20 local government areas in the state. He however urged the committee to make their findings and recommendations available to the state and zonal working committee soon. Doherty explained that his administration would be based  on seven point agenda, which borders on instilling discipline within the party, rebranding the party to make it attractive to the teeming voters in Lagos State,  to create and establish  a strong Information Communication Technology department for control and monitoring and dissemination of information that will be structured down to the polling units. The Lagos PDP helmsman added that in order to fast track withdrawal of cases instituted by members against party in court an arbitrator conflict resolution committee has been set up headed by Mr Taiwo Benedict. He also announced the abrogation of 60/40 formula for sharing of political offices between the major factions in the party. Shedding more light on the promises he made at his inauguration, Doherty said success has been recorded and some legal suits filed against the party and some individuals have been withdrawn in the party interest. He added that members are committed to moving the party forward and repositioning it for greater challenge. When asked about efforts made so far in convincing those who have left the party to return to the party, he noted that it is too early to comment on it, stressing that some have indicated interest to return to the party while some were adamant and have made up their mind not to return to the party. Doherty however refused to evaluate the level of progress made in reconciling the members, underscoring that such information was not meant for public consumption even thoughhe insisted that progress are being made. Speaking on his relationship with Chief George,he noted that it is cordial but at times they differ on issues and that is amicably resolved between them. Commenting on the position of things in the party, PDP chieftain, Chief Willie Akinlude said members of the party have decided to put the destiny of the party in their hands and were committed to repositioning it to be the strong and formidable alternative party it ought to be. He maintained that Lagos State is in a mess because of the way the affairs of the party is run by the government in power and as such a change of leadership is required and PDP is look up to as the party that can provide that succour. Akinlude said that since the individual that dictate affairs of the party has been dislodged every member of the party now have sense of belonging and are prepared to contribute their quota in moving the party forward. Speaking on the situation of things in the party, it’s governorship candidate in the last general election, Mr Jimi Agbaje noted that reconciliation was essential to move the party forward being the only credible alternative political party in the state and more so, that some members of the party are disenchanted and there is the need to appeal to them as well appease those who are aggrieved so as to move the party forward. “Every member of the party must support reconciliation, I do not object to reconciliation. The PDP is the only viable alternative party in the state.” He maintained that those who believe in the party’s philosophy and manifesto shall remain with the party, adding that the only challenge is that some members are impatient and don’t want to make sacrifice, so they want to remain with the party in power. Some analysts aver that if the PDP is repositioned, it will adequately pose a big challenge to the ruling party in the state because the government in power takes many things for granted on the believe that there is no credible alternative that can give them serious challenge at the poll. What’s more, watchers of opposition politics have also argued that some of the policies the government in power come up with are considered inimical and some law passed by the state Assembly are considered to be draconian and have consequence because of the seeming ineffective opposition. If there are credible alternative political parties capable of snatching power from party in government, there will be need to think twice or feel the pulse of the masses before engaging in such action. If the Lagos PDP succeeds in getting it right this time around, it should guide against falling into the lurch it found itself.