In the next few months, political parties in Ondo State will begin the process that would lead to the emergence of their candidates for the 2020 governorship election. In the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC),  there have been developments, pleasant and not-too-pleasant, depending on the angle one is looking at it. In this report, TOPE FAYEHUN examines some of the intrigues and preparations of the main contenders from the party. Currently in Ondo State, the major discussion making the rounds is the issue of the governorship election holding in the state later in the year. Stakeholders are concerned about  candidates that would fly the governorship flags of the leading political parties and who would eventually become the next governor of the Sunshine state. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed September 19 and October 10 for the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states, respectively. There is no doubt about the fact that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are the two major political parties in the state, hence the issue of who would pick the governorship ticket has already become a hot contest within the rank and file of the gladiators in those parties. With the look of things, analysts posited that any aspirant that clinches the governorship ticket of APC or PDP will eventually be the next governor of the state for a period of four years. In APC, for instance, the intrigues and political storms have started gathering against the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who no doubt wants to have another shot at the seat for a second term. Although, Akeredolu has not declared his intention to run for a second term in office, happenings within his camp is suggesting that the governor may throw his hat into the ring for a second term. It will be observed that with his wife joining some of his supporters, including his Deputy, Hon. Agboola Ajayi and some of the Commissioners showing signs of four plus four fingers at any forum, the game has started. Also in the PDP, those who have the financial muscle have continued showing interest in the plum job. As the schemings gain traction, the two major political parties, APC and main opposition PDP are putting forth their best feet, thus promising to make the forthcoming Ondo 2020 very explosive. Already, there are tell-tale signs that all is not well with the state chapter of the ruling party, APC. Although some of the political leaders in the party are denying the obvious facts, it is obvious that majority of them are engaging in some political hide and seek. As far as political pundits are concerned,  APC in Ondo State is divided along three lines, with the barrage of counter-threats emanating from all the camps. Hence, the ongoing reconciliation effort initiated by the leadership of the party, both at the state and national level. Confirming the development, the immediate past Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Ondo State, Hon. Isaacs Kekemeke, said, “To tell you the truth, since Governor Rotimi Akeredolu won the election and was inaugurated, we have never been one. I don’t like to criticise him but the bulk stops at his table Hon. Isaacs Kekemeke.” Kekemeke noted that Akeredolu’s  inability to put all factions together after he won, was the foundation of the crisis. According to him, “He ran the government exclusively. I think he just realised that even after victory, as governor you need everyone.” Although, there have been efforts to resolve the lingering crisis within the party with composition of advisory council headed by Chief Olusola Oke, while the former Chairman of the party in the state, Hon. Isaacs Kekemeke was inaugurated as the secretary of the council. Despite this, it seems that peace is still far from the party. Of recent, one of the groups, Unity Forum, rejected the choice of Chief Bisi Akande, as Chairman of the All Progressives Congress National Reconciliation Committee. Akande, who is a former Osun State governor and pioneer Interim National Chairman of the APC, was named as chairman of the APC national reconciliation committee by the leadership of the party. However, members of the forum rejected Akande’s leadership of the committee on the grounds of conflict of interest. They accused him of having close ties with the state governor. The group, in a communiqué issued at the end of the forum’s meeting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, said the composition of the committee was equally unacceptable because some members were interested parties and could not be judges in their own case. The communiqué reads in part, “The meeting reviewed the replacement of the Senate President with His Excellency, Chief Bisi Akande, as the Chairman of the APC National Reconciliation Committee and pass a vote of no confidence in Chief Akande as the Chairman of the committee. “Chief Akande was part of the reconciliation committee that met with the party leadership in Ondo State in July 2019 in Akure, where it was agreed that the party executive in the state be dissolved, but up till this moment, the governor, through some of our leaders, have been blocking the dissolution that was jointly agreed on in the presence of Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Segun Osoba, Chief Bisi Akande, Chief Pius Akinyelure, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and Pastor Oluwajana, the South-West Chairman of the APC. “The Unity Forum, for the umpteenth time, reaffirms the stand and the outcome of the July 2019 meeting presided over by our National Leader, Senator Bola Tinubu, where it was agreed that the executives of the APC from state to ward be dissolved as a prelude to peace and precondition for any party primary in Ondo State.” The group also condemned the recent set up of an advisory council in the Ondo State chapter of the APC, saying the composition of the council did not reflect the true membership spread of the party. It called on the national leadership of the party to do justice to the party in the state, instead of searching for peace.The group also condemned the forthcoming council poll, saying “it is only Team Aketi that is organising the LG election for itself.” However, the rise in the number of the governorship aspirants in APC seems to be giving pundits a serious concern. They are of the opinion that post-primary crisis appears inevitable because some of them who have scores to settle with Akeredolu seem desperate to get the ticket. Some of them believed that since Akeredolu failed to run an inclusive government, thereby disconnecting himself from about 80 percent members of the party, they are sure of securing the party’s ticket and equally win the forthcoming poll with those who are aggrieved. Some of them in a bid to emerge as the candidate, have met with the national leaders of the party to have their endorsement while some are still consulting various party leaders across the 18 local government areas of the state. Those who belong to the Unity Group within the party, said they are ready to present a consensus governorship aspirant for the party’s primaries, so as to be able to stop Akeredolu from picking the party’s ticket. One of the staunch members of the group, Senator Ajayi Boroffice,  gave the assurance during an empowerment programme for women in Ondo Central and South Senatorial Districts in Akure recently. Senator Boroffice, representing Ondo North Senatorial District, said,“We in Unity Group of APC in Ondo State will have one person to vie for the pri­maries. “It may be Chief Oluso­la Oke, Jimi Odimayo, Ife Oyedele, Olusegun Abraham, Bukola Adetula or anybody in the group since we have a common goal of presenting a credible candidate for the party in the coming election”. He, therefore, urged the women to remain resolute and support the party, saying that better days would soon come. Also, Kekemeke, who is also a governorship hopeful,  disclosed that he is ready to unseat  Akeredolu, come 2020 governorship election . Kekemeke, who further disclosed that Akeredolu looks so tired for second term, noted that the governor needs some rest having served the state to the best of his ability. The former Secretary to the State Government said Akeredolu has done his best for the state, noting that he is ready to take over from him. Kekemeke said, “the governor doesn’t know the need of the people of the state. I thought the need of the people is beyond putting an elevator alone for cabinet members and building a bridge of 60 meters for N7 billion”. “Despite the noise about building roads, he is yet to build 40 kilometres in three years. In the late governor Agagu’s government, we built a thousand kilometers of roads. “Individuals are no longer feeling the impact of government again. And I think we need to move away from that. Our vision for this state is to be prosperous. It is time to build prosperity. It is time our citizens have work to do. “We want to make government touchable, feeliable in the state. We will use government power to fight hunger, insecurity and joblessness in the state.  We have decided to introduce free and compulsory primary and secondary education in the state. “For every society that has moved on, basic education has been the key. We will introduce a highly subsidized tertiary education in the state. Government must just be responsible. We must prioritise basic education. “Akeredolu is doing his best but he is yet to have the vision I have for the state. It is time to redirect government in Ondo State. Government is no longer about  raising money. The pain of the people are my pain. We have developed local approach to our problem.” On the crisis in the state chapter of the party, Kekemeke said, “We don’t have crisis in the party. We only have factions. What we need to do is to come together and believe that the party is more important than any of us. “That is what the advisory committee of which I am the secretary wants to do. This state is APC. I am not a fan of Akeredolu neither am I his enemy.” Kekemeke, however, appealed to leaders of the party not to make any statement that will incite the people against the leadership of the party both the state and in the country. “Differences are part of the process. Akeredolu did not run an inclusive government. There is exclusion in the government and outside government. That is another opportunity for me.  I am set to unseat the current government. We can’t afford to have a learner again. “We welcome the national reconciliation committee and we are ready to work with them so that the platform will be available for me to use during election,” he stated. As the drama unfolds, both the driver and the passengers are trying to outfox each other. Analysts posited that if care is not taken, both of them may not get to their destinations.