The federal government yesterday revealed that it has commenced a funding process through the National Diaspora Commission to raise a sum of $1billion from over two million Nigerians in Diaspora to stamp out open defecation and fund Water Sanitation Hygiene (WASH) programmes.
The minister of Water Resources, Engr Suleiman Adamu revealed this at the launch of open defecation free (ODF) and flag off of Clean Nigeria: use the toilet, Ekiti campaign, in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State capital.
He said plans were on to mobilise 2million Nigerians across the globe to get involved in the eradication of open defecation and improve sanitation in the country.
“The federal government through the National Diaspora Commission is planning to raise a sum of one billion dollars from over two million Nigerians in Diaspora to fund WASH programmes. We want Governor Fayemi to use his position to influence his colleague governors to achieve the ODF status across the 36 states,” he said.
This came as Ekiti State government also said it would expend a total of N9.6 billion on the programme to make the state open defecation free and for implementation of Water Sanitation Hygiene (WASH).
This according to the government will be done in partnership with development partners, private sector, local government areas administrators, traditional institutions and other critical stakeholders.
Adamu who expressed the determination of the federal government not allow the menace to constitute a global embarrassment to the nation, said statistics revealed that over 47 million Nigerian population engage in the unhealthy practice.
While commending Governor Fayemi for setting a target  that is  three years ahead the national schedule for ODF, the minister said it is a  clear demonstration of commitment to make the country regain its respect globally.
According to him, “Available statistics revealed that over 47.5 million Nigerians engage in this unhygienic act.
“We are also not unaware that the national   action against open defecation requires private sector, civil society organisations,  government  at all levels to achieve zero level.  This is critical to us as a government, because we have to provide the political will and public financing to fight the menace and bring down the practice.
“We want to assure you that my Ministry will support you in ensuring that you hit your target of making Ekiti achieve ODF status in 2022.
In his response, Governor Kayode Fayemi , ordered immediate enforcement  of operation one house-one -toilet in the state, saying that anyone found defecating in the public will be arrested and sanctioned accordingly.
Fayemi added that in a couple of months, the Ero Dam that will supply water to nine local governments will begin full operation, adding that the World Bank is partnering with Ekiti to carry out  Turn Around Maintenance on the dam.
To help the ODF roadmap and target, Governor Fayemi declared immediate enforcement of one- house -one -toilet across Ekiti.
He added further: “Henceforth, all government offices must have one functional toilet while there must be one toilet in every public and private offices across the state.
“All traditional rulers should be champions in their domains and  Ekiti Rural Water Supply Agency(RUWASA) should propagate the WASH policy across the 16 council areas .
“Government will not attend functions organised by any erring community  and will  ostracise any community   without verifiable  evidence of being ODF compliant.’’