The Director of African Network for Environment and Economic Justice, (ANEEJ, a Non Governmental Organisation) Rev David Ugolor has said the organisation is set to support every form of fight against corruption and Rule of Law with the aim to deliver good governance to Nigeria and Edo state in particular. Ugolor stated this in Benin, capital of Edo state during the launch of Civil Society Advocacy to support Anti Corruption and Rule of Law in Nigeria (CASARN). The project which is part of the implementation of the Rule of Law (ROAC), is funded by the European Union and implemented by the British Council. Ugolor said the goal of CASARN project is to enhance governance in Nigeria by contributing to the fight against corruption, strengthen rule of law, the protection of human rights by reinforcing prevention mechanism and enhancing civil society and public engagement. He further said the expected outcome of the project is improved oversight, transparency and accountability in the management of resources including enhanced civil society and public engagement and participation in the fight against corruption in Nigeria. The Director also said the project will be delivered through series of related activities including research, baseline study, capacity building, budget/project monitoring, advocacy/engagement with government Ministries, Department and Agencies both at national level and Edo state. He said Edo state government joined Open Government Partnership (OGP) in 2018 thereby making history as the first state in the South-South to join OGP in Nigeria. He said the State Action Plan has been developed and is currently before the government waiting for approval. In his address, the Managing Director of Edo State Public Procurement Agency, Henry Idogun assured ANEEJ of support from the state in the course of the project adding that the fight against corruption must be collective and not left to government alone. He said one of the aim of his agency is leave a better Edo state for the next generation and with transparency in governance, corruption will be minimal. Representative of the Economic and Financial Crime’s Commission, (EFCC) Mr Williams Oseghale said the commission has made a lot of achievements under its current leadership in the area of recovering looted funds, forfeiture of assets of corrupt persons and jailing of past governors who stole public funds. “What we do today, determines the kind of society we will leave behind for our children” he added.