The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu and the South-West governors  say they are on the same page on the modalities of security outfit code-named ‘Amotekun’, saying it would be coordinated by the Nigerian police and backed by the right legal framework. The IGP who spoke to journalists at the end of a closed-door meeting held with governors of the six south western states of Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti, called for the infusion of community policing structure, powered from the grassroots. He emphasised that the whole concept of Amotekun falls within the ambit of the community policing efforts by the federal government. The IGP, who backed the establishment of the South-Western Security Network pointed out that it is not a regional police, stating that its framework will be domesticated within the states. According to him, the police is ready to partner with state governments who are willing to assist the Police in tackling insecurity, be it on capacity building and other areas of mutual interest. He revealed that the outfit – which represents a partnership with the federal police – is not a regional security arrangement but rather, a state effort put in place to take policing back to the communities and the people. Also, chairman of the South-West Governors’ Forum, Arakunrin Rotimi Akerodolu, said that it was now clear to the region’s governors that the community police, which the Nigerian Police was anchoring, was one that would truly benefit the region. He hinted that they have chosen to follow the part of community policing in its entirety, confirming that Amotekun is not a Regional Policing, because Nigeria operates a federal system of government. ‘’We have chosen that we will embrace community police in all its entirety. In addition, we have made things clear that when we said we are having Amotekun, it is not that we are creating a regional police. ‘’Amotekun is not regional police. It is state based and we have all agreed that if you have laws in your respective states backing any security outfit, then you can go ahead for as long as it is within the legal bounds,’’ Akeredolu, who is also the Governor of Ondo state said.