***Says NYSC Gave Him New Certificate After Correcting Error On his Name Bayelsa State Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, dismissed allegations that he forged his National Youth Service Corps, (NYSC) Exemption Certificate, stressing that the Corps caused the controversy because it misspelled his name. The deputy governor at a press conference in Abuja explained that he could not have forged his certificate because the NYSC issued him a fresh certificate after he applied for the correction on his name to effected. Speaking through his counsel, Clement Kekemeke, Ewhrudjakpo, who noted that there was an error in his NYSC Exemption Certificate, noted that the NYSC rectified the error and issued a new certificate to him after he drew the attention of the Corps to the error on his name. The deputy governor said Benjamin Youdiowei, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) had gone to the Grade 1 Area Court, Lugbe, Federal Capital Territory, FCT, on the allegation that he forged the certificate not knowing that he was re-issued a certificate which reflected the correction on his name by the NYSC being the issuing authority that has the loci standi to replace an erroneously issued certificate. While he noted that the alleged forgery against him were already in public domain even before he was nominated as running mate to the newly inaugurated governor of the state, Senator Duoye Diri in the 2019 governorship poll, he however stated that the Grade A Court lacks the jurisdiction to hear a forgery case. He said: “Sometimes in 2019 preparatory to the National Assembly elections, and specifically that of Bayelsa West Senatorial District, where Senator Ewrudjakpo represented until he was sworn in as deputy governor; one Ibisene Afamkolo took him to the Federal High Court and commenced a suit by way of originating summons accusing him of presenting a forged NYSC Exemption Certificate. “While dealing with that matter, being a pre-election matter; at a point, it became status barred having exceeded the period of 180 days within which it ought to have been dispensed with by virtue of the provision of the 1999 Constitution. “The next thing that followed was that truly on the certificate presented to INEC by my client in his form CS001, which is the nomination form, his surname was misspelt. Instead of Ewhrudjakpo, the name was misspelt as Ewhrudjakpa. “After the matter was struck out and even though my client had earlier applied for the correction of this misspelt name, he was further bored by that matter by reapplying again for the issuance of a new certificate. “He applied again, drawing the attention of the NYSC to the error on his surname and seeking a re-issuance of a correct certificate. Consequently, the NYSC responded and reissued a fresh certificate correcting our client’s name, reflecting the surname now as Ewhrudjakpo, being the issuing authority that has the loci standi to replace an erroneously issued certificate. That put the matter to rest.” Barrister Kekemeka, who displayed court papers and documents including the fresh certificate issued by the NYSC to replace the old one, said his client was amazed when the matter resurfaced again much to the shock of those knew the real position of the matter. He continued: “While my client was nominated to run for the office of the deputy governor of Bayelsa State; One Benjamin Youdiowei (A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, APC) initiated a direct complain at the Grade 1 Area Court, Lugbe, Federal Capital Territory, FCT, accusing our client of presenting a forged NYSC Exemption Certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. Our contention therein is that that matter is still subjudice and I won’t go into the merits or otherwise of the matter for want of care. “But our concern was that by the Area Court amendment law, the Area Court does not even have jurisdiction over criminal matters. To have taken a pre-election matter which had become status barred to a Grade 1 Area Court was an abuse of court process and the court couldn’t have acted on it. “Ironically, the Area Court judge proceeded to issue a bench warrant against our client and directed the Wuye Police Station to arrest him, then a Senator and prosecute him for forgery of NYSC Exemption Certificate. Worried by this development, our client took up a judicial review before the FCT High Court before His Lordship, Honourable Justice Belgore seeking that the proceedings at Grade One Area Court be brought to the FCT High Court for the purpose of quashing because the court lacked the jurisdiction to sit on that kind of matter.” He stressed that those pressing for criminal prosecution of the deputy governor are in flagrant breach of Section 308 which confers immunity on him. He cautioned those “playing politics with an issue that the NYSC has since laid to rest,” to desist from doing so, adding that because Senator Degi Biobarakumo, running mate to David Lyon, caused the annulment of their mandate on the account of parading multiple identities, does not mean same fate should be visited on Ewhrudjakpo.