The repentant Boko Haram insurgents reintegrated with their communities are likely going to so more harm than good says Senator Ali Ndume who hails from Borno State. This is just as he disclosed that a repentant Boko Haram member who recently integrated with his community has killed his father, stole his wealth and disappeared. Speaking in a BBC Hausa programme monitored in Kaduna yesterday, Senator Ndume who represented Borno South in the Nigerian Senate ,queried government’s rational in spending huge sum of money to reform the insurgents, alleging that many of the ” repentant” Boko Haram members had since gone back to their former base. “They are like Kharajites. Many among those released have since ran away.They will never repent The government should know what to do about them.But not re introducing someone to you, who has killed your parent or your relations.” “Haba. Not that he even apologized to you, he apologized to the government.His thinking was that government has failed,and that is why they are being pampered. “This government’s programme is unacceptable to our people. The right thing is to stop it forthwith. ” If there is sincerity of purpose in this ,those in the IDP camps should be trained in various trades and vocation, so that they could start life again,” he said. The BBC also featured a widow, who condemned the programme because Boko Haram insurgents killed her husband. “This thing is hurting .They killed my husband in my presence , they killed my son. I’m left suffering with four young orphans. Till death, I will never forget that day. ” I was left with orphans, with no help or assistance .See how harsh life is today, someday we eat, another day we stay hungry. That is how we are suffering with the children. “Look at the kind of care giving to the Boko Haram members. We that have suffered for 6 years now, we are not taken care of. But the repentant Boko Haram, truly government has not done justice here,’ she said. Asked on how she was coping with life, the woman said all her remaining children were out of school. “I am always washng, I do menial jobs to get N500 and take care of the children,” she said. A male victim also told the BBC that Boko Haram insurgents killed their relations and chased them out of their home. ” They killed four of my close relations. In what capacity are we going to stay with them again?. Do we see them as human beings or animals? She asked. ” Or do they want us to meet them and take revenge? There will be a serious problem, ” he warned. “They should go to Gwoza and Bama. Many of the repentant insurgents have rejoined the insurgency. There is nothing you can do to change a Boko Haram,” he said.