Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide  Sanwo-Olu has  said the security and youth entrepreneurship scheme adjudged to be the twin flagship programmes at the centre of the development agenda of his administration have become national models. -Olu stated this when he constituted new board members for the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) and Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF)at a brief inauguration ceremony held at the State House in Alausa, Ikeja. He said the new boards would be supported to efficiently steer the affairs of the agencies and help the government to change the state’s narrative in improving business and security. Since the creation of the two agencies, the Governor said Lagos had strengthened its capacity to provide security across the state, thereby witnessing improved business activities as a result of the improvement in the operational capacities of security agencies. Sanwo-Olu said his administration would deploy instruments of law and resources to sustain the template by investing more in programmes specifically targeted at security, job creation and youth unemployment. He said,  “Today, Lagos has become safer and more secure because of the improved operational capacities of our security agencies. Individuals and corporate organisations have made this possible largely through the financial and material donations to the Lagos State Security Trust Fund. The effectiveness of these initiatives as a strategy to fight and prevent crime has been widely acknowledged, given its replication by other sub-national governments, and even at the national level.” Giving acceptance remark on behalf of members, LSSTF chairman, Mr. Kehinde Durosinmi-Etti, a former Bank Chief Executive Officer, said the organisation would keep its focus on designing programmes that would boost protection businesses and improve security across the State. Other members of LSSTF Board are Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr Tayo Ayinde, Commissioner for Special Duties, Engr Tayo Bamgbose-Martins, Managing Director of Guaranty Trust Bank (GT Bank), Mr. Segun Agbaje, Managing Director of First Bank, Dr Adesola Adeduntan, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Agboola Oshodi-Glover (rtd), Dr Ayo Ogunsan, ‪Mr Ebenezer Onyeagwu, Otunba Niyi Adewunmi, Mr Emeka Onwuka and Dr. Abdurrazaq Balogun, the Fund’s Executive Secretary.