Chairman National Youth Council of Nigeria, (Cross River State branch), Comrade Dan Obo Friday  passed a vote of confidence on the state Gov. Prof. Ben Ayade as well as the ministry of Health headed by Dr. Edu for sustaining the fight in tackling  the spread of coronavirus deadly disease in the state. Obo who disclosed this in Calabar while reacting to insinuations from critics of the Ayade’s administration that state government was yet to do enough in the combat of spread of the deadly virus in the state. The Youth Council boss lauded the quick precautionary measures set up by the state COVID-19 taskforce team superintended by the state Commissioner for Health Dr. Betta Edu. “His words, Obo said,” If you look at the entire 36 states of the federation, Cross River State has been on the spotlight to the extent that that people naturally want us to own COVID-19. “First it is the rapid response from authority of the state Government. You cannot undermine that. “All the actions that we took  as a state under the able leadership of Gov. Ben Ayade and indeed the state ministry of health we had always being on top of the game. ” The nose mask, and the agitation for reopening of schools which was subsequently reversed days ago and indeed resumption of local flights. “Almost every of our  ideas that  we brought had been what the federal Government ends up buying. “So if we have been able to set this pace for the FG and several States to follow. My believe is that we can’t be the ones to bring down what we have erected. The youth leader stressed that as a body  made up of people of like minds they are interested in watching/monitoring activities of government cast aspersion where necessary and praise the government when it initiates good policies that betters the lives of the people. Obo however, stressed that before proper assessment of success in carried out, Gov. Ayade should be allowed to exhaust his tenure. ” Has the tenure of Ayade elapse? No! Stressing that as a people, no one has the moral right to pass judgment on Ayade for now. The NYCN boss appealed to Ayade’s critics to sheath their swords and allow the governor to implement the industrialization policy which he had initiated. He said that between 1999 till date, outside the Songhai Farms initiated by the administration of Senator Liyel Imoke (Ayade’s predecessor, there been no government policy that has created employment opportunity for youths to be employed in the state. “As youths we should be happy that the governor is investing our money in Cross River State through his policy of industrialization.” The youth leader stressed. 