The new Commissioner of Police in Ogun state, Edward Awolowo Ajogun on Thursday, warned men and officers of the command to refrain from any form of misconduct as well as other acts that would force him to apply damming disciplinary measure on them while he holds sway as the number one police officer in the state. Ajogun, who addressed police operatives serving in the command yesterday as the new CP, emphatically declared that any act of misconduct, misuse of firearms as well as extra judicial killings by any policeman under his watch would be sanctioned. The new CP, who had earlier served in Ogun command under the out-gone CP Kenneth Ebrimson as the Deputy CP in charge of operations, further instructed the officers to always remember that they are public servants that must subject themselves to the authority of the democratic dispensation. Stressing that the life of every citizen in the state matters, Ajogun pointed out that misuse of firearms and extra judicial killings by any police operatives under his command would not be tolerated , saying members of the civilian populace should be treated with utmost respect and dignity. Ajogun further instructed men and officers of the command, to be prepared to respect the basic tenets, which included the rule of law and fundamental rights of the citizens, noting that police are presently policing democracy. “Citizens can ventilate their grievances through protest and demonstrations in a peaceful and orderly manner. The command will however, be decisive in handling violent conducts, particularly where lives and properties are threatened. “Let me quickly remind all policemen that they are public servants and that every member of the public deserves their respect and that any act of misconduct will be viewed seriously. I therefore appealed to the general public to reciprocate by giving back to policemen, deserving respect and cooperation”. Commenting on the welfare packages in stock for the serving men and officers of the command, Ajogun vowed to continue to play the fatherly role for operatives which he was known for during the period he held sway as the Deputy Commissioner in charge of operations before he was posted out. He assured the people of the state that the entire workforce would be driven and guarded tirelessly towards making Ogun state a better place to live and invest in, stressing that the police under his command would take the battle to the dens of kidnappers, cultists, drug dealers, and sea pirates, traffickers. “Ogun will be made too hot for criminally minded persons. These deviants are therefore advised to quickly leave the state now and never return or be prepared to suffer unprecedented fatalities”. “I came fully prepared to serve the good people of Ogun state through hard work and partnership with the people and fidelity to the right procedures, actions and behaviour of policemen in all their activities. I shall determinedly, passionately and to the best of my ability, mobilise the entire officers and men of the command to achieve the three principal objectives of police organisation worldwide. “Our war mantra will be ‘criminal, here are your own coins’. We will pay criminals back. I am their own coin in a very decisive manner, should they dare our resolve and determination. Ogun state will be made too hot for criminally minded persons. These deviants are therefore advised to quickly leave the state now and never return or be prepared to suffer unprecedented fatalities”. Earlier the outgoing Commissioner for Police, Kenneth Ebrimson thanked the State Governor Prince Dapo Abiodun for his logistics support towards providing patrol vehicles, power bikes and communication gadgets. He therefore charged the officers and men to extend the same support given to him to the new Commissioner of Police.