Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has approved the appointment of chairmen and Governing Council members for four state-owned tertiary institutions, Lagos State University (LASU); Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED); Lagos State Polytechnic and Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPED). The governor in a statement signed by the Lagos State head of service, Mr. Hakeem Muri- Okunola, said the tenure of the newly appointed Governing Council members would take effect from 1st August 2020, following the expiration of the tenures of the former Governing Councils. According to him, the tenure of office of the Institutions’ chief executive officers shall remain as provided in relevant Laws. The head of service noted that the tenure of the newly appointed chancellor of the Lagos State University, Professor Gbolahan Elias (SAN), would become effective from 16 September 2020 when the tenure of the incumbent chancellor, Justice George Oguntade would have expired. While congratulating the newly appointed governing councils members, Sanwo-Olu expressed his appreciation and delight at the willingness of the new appointees to serve the state and help build on the achievements of the outgoing councils. He maintained that the newly appointed Governing Council members had been carefully identified based on their individual track records in their respective professional fields, adding that he had no doubts about their capacity to move tertiary education in Lagos State to greater heights. The newly appointed Governing Council members for Lagos State University (LASU) are Prof. Gbolahan Elias (SAN), chancellor; Prof. Adebayo Ninalowo, pro-chancellor/ chairman, while the members include Prof. Shafiudeen Amuwo; Mrs. Adenike Yomi-Faseun; Dr. Adetugbobo Hakeem;  Mrs. Sule Tolani; Mrs. Folasade ADesoye; Mr. Karl Tokun Toriola; Mr. Kunle Soname; Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii; Mr. Adebayo Akinsanya; Mrs. Mojisola Tolagbe Taiwo; Mrs. Morenike Williams; Mr. Anuoluwapo Esho and Mrs. Foluke Abdul-razaq.