Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state, on Monday, mopped all the published Newspapers for Monday over advertorial signed by a prominent Benin businessman, Capt. Hosa Okunbo. The advert which exposed Obaseki’s wrongdoings against the businessman, dent a lot of image problem against the Governor who is seeking a second term ambition in an election scheduled to hold on September 19. Some newspapers distributors who spoke under condition of anonymity, said they were contacted late last night  by top officials of the state government, where they were specifically told not to distribute the papers for Monday. According to them, some of them were offered a mouth offering reward if they can obliged them their request. It was however gathered that some turned down the request because of ill treatment they have suffered since the inception of the present administration. According to one of them, “We got a call late in the night about the need for us not to distribute some of the papers that will be coming today (Monday) and that we will be rewarded. “While some of my colleagues agreed, i refused by telling them to go to various news stand to do that after i must have distributed.” The source said the advertorial was carried in six major national dailies. In the advertorial, Idahosa accused the Governor of refusing all entreaties to make peace his predecessor and former National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole. He added that the Governor had begun to attack him and his business interests over fear that he was running against him until the Governor left the APC. The business mogul, fondly referred to as Capt. Hosa by associates, made the declaration in a 3,923-word press statement titled: “An Open Letter to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Good People of Edo State: Please, Urge Governor Godwin Obaseki to Leave Me Alone” released in Abuja. In the statement in which he chronicled his chubby relationship with Obaseki that has now gone awry, his support for his administration and the series of direct and sponsored attacks by some agents of the state government against his person  and business interests, Idahosa made it clear that he was not looking for settlement of the issues that the governor had picked with him in spite of his good intentions towards him and his administration. But the Commissioner of Information, Efe Stewart, however denied the allegation when contacted. He said “That is not true, it is complete falsehood and the handiwork of mischief makers. A child that has been born cannot be aborted. Obaseki has brought in revolution to Edo state politics that is why some people are going to any length to discredit it. When a man is no longer capable of carrying out his obligation at home, he becomes very humble to his wife. “Governor Obaseki has brought in a change into the politics of the state. Before now, agberos were role models to our youths but he came and change that so there is no truth in that allegation.” 