The Edo State Government has cleared and exited 3,769 suspected coronavirus (COVID-19) cases across the state’s 18 Local Government Areas (LGAs), who have completed the compulsory 14-day follow up and tested negative. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who disclosed this to journalists in Benin City, said the government is contact-tracing 4,327 line listed persons, while the cleared cases comprise 347 Persons of Interests (POI) and 3,422 others that had various degrees of contacts with confirmed cases. Okundia said Edo has so far recorded 1593 confirmed cases, 7187 suspected cases, 57 deaths and 929 discharged persons, noting that the government has taken serious steps to contain the pandemic across all communities and protect the people. He further warned against submission of wrong information, including names, addresses and phone contacts, by residents during the ongoing massive testing for the virus in the state as it was threatening the government’s efforts at containing the pandemic. The commissioner, who identified early testing as essential in the government’s efforts at curtailing the spread of the disease, noted: “The Edo State Government encourages all residents with symptoms of the disease to come out for testing and treatment as early detection is key to containing the virus. When detected early, a patient’s chance for survival increases. “We urge you to comply with all government directives, aimed at ensuring the health and safety of all Edo people. While the government ramps up efforts to win the war against this common enemy of mankind, it is imperative that residents stay at home and observe social distancing guidelines and other precautionary measures against the spread of the disease, including regular hand washing with soap under running water and the use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers. Cover your mouth and nose properly when sneezing and/or coughing.” “Two toll-free lines for COVID-19 response have been introduced by Edo State Government to strengthen the initial lines from the State Ministry of Health and the World Health Organisation (WHO) distributed at the outset of the outbreak. If you have any COVID 19 symptoms, please call 08001235111 or 08002200110 for assistance”, Okundia added.