Kogi State government has debunked claims that there was an ‘unexplained death rise’ in the state as a result of Coronavirus. It described media report suggesting this as a duplication of falsehood to satisfy earlier publications by the same media outfit. In a statement issued yesterday by the state commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr Kingsley Fanwo, in Lokoja, he condemned the report and accused its authors of pursuing “a campaign of calumny against the government of Kogi State,” saying the state government might be forced to press charges against purveyors of the report. He said, “We wouldn’t have bothered ourselves with the falsehood and defamatory publication aimed at causing panic and instigating the people of Kogi State against their government, but we owe Kogites, home and abroad, assurances that there are no increased unexplained/strange deaths in Kogi State. “In its haste to wreck image havoc on the Kogi State government, The Cable quoted death rates and declared as alarming, figures that are even below those recorded in the allegedly visited areas in 2019, even before the pandemic that has wrecked health and economic pandemonium around the world. The report persisted in its obviously sponsored narrative, even when the alleged Cemetery Attendants said to have been interviewed informed the “Reporter” that there was no increase in deaths/burials in the areas allegedly visited. “Our take is that death cannot be hidden. It was apparent in China, it could not be hidden in the United States of America or Italy and certainly cannot be so in Kogi State, Nigeria. “It is now clear that the reckless lies by The Cable against the government of Kogi State is a deliberate ploy to discredit our government and our people.  It is unacceptable and we will do everything to defend the integrity of our government and our people. “We are a responsible government, trusted by the people to ensure their wellbeing and wellness. We are strengthening our healthcare facilities to deal with the healthcare needs of our people,” Fanwo stressed.