The International Federation of Professional Footballers (FIFPro) has suspended the Ivory Coast Footballers Association (AFI) for failing to endorse former Chelsea striker, Didier Drogba’s bid to head the country’s football federation. In a letter addressed to the president of the AFI, Cyrille Domoraud, FIFPro said it was suspending his organisation with immediate effect. The letter said that the exceptional intervention was motivated by extreme urgency. The AFI has last week decided not to sponsor Drogba for the presidency of the Ivorian Federation (FIF) in an election slated for September 5 and instead backed Idriss Diallo, the current FIF vice-president. Candidates need an endorsement from one of five Ivorian football organisations to enter the presidential race. With only the association of medical staff yet to announce their endorsement, the former Chelsea and Marseille striker doesn’t have a sponsor. In its scathing letter, FIFPro attacked what it called the iniquitous decision of the AFI, saying it is likely to have a negative impact in the Ivory Coast and beyond, on the defence of footballers, chief objective of FIFPro and its members. “Your decision shows a flagrant omission of this obligation and a total lack of consideration for your members,” the letter read in part. AFI, however, insisted that they acted in the best interest of Ivorian footballers. “While waiting to formulate through the internal channels of FIFPro, an appropriate response to the reasons given in support of this decision, AFI will like to recall that it’s completely independent that it takes its positions at the national level, in taking into account the best interests of Ivorian footballers”. “From its creation to this day, AFI has always worked in full transparency in the interest of its members. This is why it wishes to reassure all its members of its commitment to the defense of their interests and respect for their choices and orientations for Ivorian football,” AFI wrote on its website. According to local reports, the 42-year-old Drogba, who is Ivory Coast’s all-time leading top scorer with 65 goals from 105 appearances, has been endorsed by the Ivorian Football Referees Association (AMAFCI).