The Yobe State government has commenced the construction of 1,800 housing units across the 17 local government areas, to boost accommodation in the local government areas. The state government declared that it awarded a N7.5 billion contract for the construction of the 1, 800 housing units of three-bedrooms urban, two-bedrooms urban and two bedroom-rural projects across the local governments. The project was the first phase of the 3600 houses billed for construction across the State by the Governor Buni administration. Meanwhile, a cross section of the people of the state have commended Governor Buni for investing in accommodation to alleviate the  housing problem in Damaturu, the state capital and headquarters of the local government  councils. The construction of the housing units have commenced in Damaturu, Gulani, Bursari, Geidam, Yunusari, Fika, Nangere, Fune, Nguru and Yusufari local government areas. A resident of Damaturu, Mallam Haruna Bala, said the commencement of the construction projects demonstrates the commitment of the present administration towards meeting the housing needs of the people. “I am anxious to see the commencement of the project because Yobe is a state suffering from a housing deficit necessitated by different factors including destructions by the Boko Haram insurgency,” Haruna said. Also speaking, 43-year old civil servant, Mohammed Mohammed Goni, described the policy of extending the projects to local government areas as a wise decision which would not only stop rural urban migration but encourage civil servants to stay at their duty posts. “It is disheartening that one spends a great percentage of his salary on transit due to lack of proper accommodation in areas of his or her primary assignment especially at the local government areas,” he said. Maryam Nasiru, Abdullahi Hashimu and Mohammed Kachalla lauded the government for initiating the project and advised on strict supervision especially at the rural areas for quality executions and value for money spent.  