Worried by the squalid and deplorable living conditions of the host communities of the Obudu Ranch Resort in Obanliku local government area, Cross River State governor, Sir Ben Ayade has promised to change their situation with the provision of social housing. Governor Ayade who was on a one-week working visit to the Obudu Ranch Resort, made the promise during his tour of the communities. Expressing sadness over the abject condition, highlighted by shanties and dilapidations, Ayade decried: “We are here at the Ranch and when you look to the left and right, what you see in the entire place are the aborigines, the original owners of Obudu Cattle Ranch. “They are relegated to the worst form of human existence; reduced to want, in body, in spirit, in soul and in the most sub-human living conditions with collapsing roofs and huge massive temperatures that run your blood chill and your bones cold.” He vowed to change the ugly narrative for the better very soon. On his one week visit to the Ranch, he disclosed that the visit was meant to give him the opportunity to see things for himself as his administration gets ready to revamp the prime jewel of hospitality in the state. “I decided to take a guided tour to spend one week with the people to feel their pulse as we prepare to make the Ranch the most attractive centre for visits in Nigeria. I want to see how the citizens, the aborigines have been living side by side with the glaring reality of the luxury of the ranch resort.” In what could be likened to a tale of two cities, Governor Ayade lamented: “It is a shame that where I live which is the presidential Villa is as if am in Europe and just a few minutes walk from there, this is what you find. The contrast is unacceptable to my conscience because I have a background akin to this people and so I understand the feeling. I understand the pain.” Bemoaning the high level of deprivations being experienced by the people, the governor said: “As I see this, my heart bleeds that I have failed to be sensitive to the people who need government most. And so my government is committed to constructing social housing to change their course and prove to them that God uses humans as a vessel.” The governor promised “to make your town and your place look beautiful as well. So, for us as a state, we are committed to exterminating this kind of extreme poverty. “My performance efficiency should be measured by how much I have lifted people from extreme poverty to comfort not by how many culverts, how many bridges, how many superhighways, how many deep seaports I have built. The real growth is human growth and that is why I do not believe in Gross Domestic Products (GDP). “I believe in human happiness index. I want to be assessed on the basis  of how happy these people are with the onset of me being governor. When I leave office, what will be the difference I have in their lives? Until I make such a difference, I would have failed as governor.” On his determination to reposition the ranch, Ayade hinted: “Very soon the ranch will be the biggest attraction in this country because we are building an international airport to support the ranch for export of potatoes and export of ornamental flowers. “So, if we are going to do that, and go into commercial farming in Obudu cattle ranch and industrial tourism, where does that leave the host communities? That is why we are here today to assure them that they have a critical role to play. We had a meeting with the leaders of the community and have assured them that the squalor and the sub-human conditions will be exterminated in the next six months. We will be here and you will see the difference. “Cross River does not have enough but I care enough to make a difference for them and we surely will as a state. This is my commitment.” 