The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide had described the allegations against President Muhammadu Buhari as Igbo hater as the baseless, unfounded and handiwork of mischief makers. The President General Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro and the Secretary General Mazi Okwu Nnabuike in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP said that those spreading the allegation are the real enemies of Igbos. According to them, “the proponent of such stand had serially squandered the Goodwill of Igbo people over a decade now through continuous offensive decisions done in error”. The Igbo group commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his love for Igbo populace, which according to the group has been demonstrated through Projects sited in the Southeast geo political zone irrespective of the political decisions taken against him in 2015 and 2019. The group urged the President to relax some strict business policies affecting negatively Igbo traders and business owners. “Igbo Youths chronically state that in 2003 and 2007, President Muhammadu Buhari as ANPP Presidential candidate nominated Igbo prominent sons, Late Chuba Okadigbo and Edwin Ume-Ezeoke as running mates in a contest where there was no Igbo as PDP Presidential candidate or the running mate”. “Unfortunately Igbo Elders in PDP influenced the Igbo electorate that Southeast was PDP and will never be in opposition, which influenced Igbo votes against President Muhammadu Buhari in 2003 and 2007, thereafter those circle of Elders gained through appointments and contracts”, “Regrettably, there was just skeletal Projects sited in the Southeast and Igbos suffered bad roads and other infrastructural problems”. “OYC regretted the episode of events of 2015 and 2019, where Ohanaeze Ndigbo erroneously rejected President Muhammadu Buhari’s letter thrice to have audience with Apex Igbo Organisation, rather without proper consultative dialogue and approval from Igbos over the Buhari’s letter”. “The ugly incident happened even where there was no Igbo PDP Presidential candidates. These few circle of elders considered only their pecuniary interests ahead of Igbo welfare and collective interests”. “Whatever happens today was the direct consequences of the rogue operations of these Igbo political musketeers masquerading as Elders manipulating Ohanaeze Ndigbo platform for their individual Interests”. “President Muhammadu Buhari’s government through harmonious relationship between Southeast Governors, had attracted monumental projects sited in the Southeast, like Commencement of Work on Second Niger Bridge, Erosion Control Sites, Construction Works in most Major expressways in the Southeast”. “Others include the upgrading of Enugu international Airport, approval for a new Abakiliki International Airport, approval of Free Trade Zone for Abia Enyimba Economic City but igbos still expect railways across the Southeast”. “PDP Offered Igbo Elders and politicians juicy appointments and contracts which never translated into meaningful projects for the South East for 16 years, irrespective of APC alleged hatred against igbos”. “There’s ongoing developmental Projects in the Southeast, Buhari loves igbos for he gave igbos the opportunity twice to Form his Government in line with 1960s existing political alliance between North and East”. “The real enemies of Igbos, are these few circle of Elders that before now  successfully squandered these opportunities and today sued President Muhammadu Buhari in a 50bn lawsuit for alleged lopsided appointments, in order to cover their recklessness and adult delinquencies towards 2015/2019 political decisions that had brought pains and disaster for common Igbo traders, Youths and artisans”.