A foremost group in the Niger Delta region, the Niger Delta Peoples Movement (NDPM) says that ongoing probe of financial stance of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) has made the anti-corruption fight of President Muhammadu Buhari to be under attack. This is contained in a statement signed by the group’s President, Mr Raphael Omomowo and its Secretary, Chief Sobijoh Franklin, on Thursday in Akure. The group, which cited different allegations and counter allegations from NDDC’s former Managing Director, Mrs Joy Nunieh and Godswill Akpabio, the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, said that huge accusations in the probing had put the anti-corruption crusade of the president under serious attack. The group noted that it was in support of the National Assembly over the ongoing probe of the activities of NDDC. It added that the National Assembly must be allowed to do its job, asking individuals and stakeholders to stop casting aspersion on members of the National Assembly. According to the group, the ongoing probe by the National Assembly Joint Committee in the National Assembly is meant to unravel the several unexecuted projects in the region,asking several groups and organizations to allow the lawmakers to complete their job. Expressing dismay at the several attacks on the lawmakers, the group wondered why several projects awarded by the intervention agency had not been delivered years after they were awarded and mobilization fees paid by the intervention agency. The group insisted that the management of the NDDC should explain to Nigerians how it spent over N70 billion within three months without any visible project to show instead of sponsoring faceless groups to cast aspersion on the integrity of the lawmakers carrying out their constitutional duties. It warned the NDDC Interim Management Committee (IMC) to defend all the allegations against it instead of trying to drag the reputation of the lawmakers carrying out its oversight function in the mud. The group, therefore, threatened to mobilize people in the Niger Delta region against the IMC if it continued to attack lawmakers instead of defending allegations against it.