Akwa Ibom State Government has begun the remodelling and reconstruction of Ibom Tropicana Entertainment Complex into a functional world class shopping mall with international franchise, stores and premium lifestyle centers. The Commissioner for Information, Sir Charles Udoh made this known yesterday, while on an inspection visit to the facility to assess the level of work so far done on the project. While expressing satisfaction with the level of work so far, Sir Charles Udoh who was accompanied on the assessment tour by the Chairman, Technical Committee on Foreign Direct Investment, FDI, Mr. Gabriel Ukpe, stated that Governor Udom Emmanuel remains committed to uplifting the standard of living of Akwa Ibom people through projects capable of stimulating the economy, especially as part of Post Covid-19 Economic Reconstruction Plans of his administration. The Commissioner said that the mall expected to come alive before December this year, would create job opportunities for the youths in the state, increase the state’s GDP and enhance manpower development, which he noted are cardinal to the Completion Agenda of Governor Udom Emmanuel. He expressed optimism that with the pace of the remodelling work on the project, the mall will be completed in record time. Also speaking, the Chairman of the Technical Committee on Foreign Direct Investment, FDI, Mr. Gabriel Ukpe said, the project is one of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s relentless efforts at making Akwa Ibom an investor’s haven. Mr. Gabriel Ukpe added that the Governor is a visionary leader, with the drive to attract foreign direct investments to the State, which he said is paying off, as more investors now throng the state seeking various business opportunities. He therefore urged Akwa Ibom citizens to seize the numerous opportunities that abound in the state to better their lots. Conducting the duo round the facility, the Chief Executive Officer of Median Construction Development Nigerian Limited Mr. Olumide Akinsanya, hinted that as partners to Akwa Ibom State Government in the development of the the Ibom Tropicana Mall, under a Public Private Partnership, ( PPP ) arrangement, his company is saddled with the responsibilities of redesigning and remodeling the complex into a functional mall with an additional mandate to occupy and manage the facility. He intimated that the facility’s anchor, the Market Square, is expected to commence operations as soon as the remodelling of the complex is completed. The Ibom Tropicana Entertainment Complex is located at the Central Business District of Uyo, the State capital. It was left uncompleted despite huge resources sunk into it by the immediate past administration.