There is a high degree of uncertainty in the country over the National Housing Programme (NHP) in 34 states including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) initiated by President Muhammadu Buhari, following the inability of most Nigerians to rent or purchase affordable housing irrespective of the mounting deficit. This is further heightened by the COVID-19 pandemic that has crippled virtually every sector of the economy, including the built environment. Findings by LEADERSHIP revealed that shortage of affordable housing is threatening economic growth, especially from the low-income earners who constitute over 80 per cent of the workforce. Currently, Nigeria is confronted with over 18million housing shortfall despite the large number of completed and unoccupied houses dotting the landscape of major states in Nigeria. To this effect, the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari had initiated and commenced the pilot phase of the National Housing Programme (NHP) in 34 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), with the exemption of Lagos and Rivers States whose governors failed to donate land for the project. The two agencies, Federal Housing Authority (FHA) and Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), under the ministry are also pushing for the provision of affordable housing for workers as seen in various projects and programmes. The pilot phase of the NHP is directly executed by the federal government through the federal ministry of Works and Housing. It was also projected that the private sector may likely participate in the second phase depending on the acceptability of the designs by intending off-takers. Checks by this paper showed that the sum of N35billion was budgeted for the project in 2016 and about N41billion from the N64.9billion budgeted for capital spending in the housing sector in the 2017 budget was set aside for the project, while in 2018, N35billion was also budgeted for the project. The same was replicated in the 2019 and 2020 budgets. The essence of the project is to provide affordable homes for low income earners. To attain the housing project, State governments and the FCT provided suitable lands in their state capitals and municipal council areas. The houses which are at various stages of completion comprise of 1 bedroom, 2 bedroom and 3 bedroom semi-detachable bungalows. The NHP is expected to add 2,736 units to the national housing stock, has provided about 13,680 direct jobs and 41,000 indirect jobs according to the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola. A cross section of stakeholders who spoke to LEADERSHIP pointed out the need for government to invest in affordable housing to ease the burden on Nigerians. Speaking with our correspondent in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, a trader, Mrs Olabisi, said efforts by her husband who is a civil servant to secure an apartment in one of the government housing estate over the years had always hit the rock. “They told us they were constructing some new estates some years ago but few years after, the project was abandoned,” she stated. Another resident, Mr Oladapo, said the house he received some time ago was suddenly reallocated to another person because he failed to quickly perfect the papers on the property. “If we have enough government affordable housing units, competition like this would not have come up,” he lamented. But the state commissioner for Lands, Housing and Urban Development, Hon Febisola Adewale, said the state government was doing its best to reduce the 17million housing deficit through mortgage financing and other means. He noted: “We are doing things in a different way to achieve the general goal of making affordable houses availability to the people. “The state government, few weeks ago, went into partnership with UNOPS Sustainable Infrastructure Impact Investments (S3I) initiative to build at least 50,000 affordable homes across the state over the next decade. “The state housing corporation is also trying to access a loan in the region of N1billion from the FMBN to prosecute housing project around Shasha area along Ado-Ikere road and other places in the state. With this, we will be able meet the housing need of Ekiti people”. On the abandoned 1000 units at Eyiyato Housing estate, initiated during Governor Kayode Fayemi first term in office in 2013, Adewole who described the project as laudable alleged that the immediate past government in state killed it. “It was a public-private project abandoned by the last administration on assumption of office. The then government refused to key into the project. That was how it was scuttled”. The commissioner, however, said that there are no completed government housing projects in the state that are yet to be allocated to the people. In Borno State, the over 11-year Boko Haram insurgency led to the destruction of homes and displaced citizens, thereby forcing government to turn some of its uncompleted housing scheme built by previous administrations to Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDPs) camps. Speaking with LEADERSHIP in Maiduguri, a resident, Alhaji Ahmed Ashemi, urged the state and the federal government to put heads together and find alternative camps for the IDPs so that the houses can be completed and allocated to people. Ashemi said as long as the IDPs are still occupying the houses, there was nothing anybody can do to remove them unless alternative structures would be provided for them. In his reaction, the state commissioner for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RRR), Engr Mustapha Gubio, said as far as housing deficit was concerned, the government was continuously building housing units across the state to tackle housing challenges. The commissioner noted that the Boko Haram attacks which led to destruction of structures in most of the local government areas forced the state government to convert some of the uncompleted housing scheme of the previous administrations to IDPs camps due to the influx of displaced persons to the capital city. He said there are about 2600 housing units built by the previous administration of Governor Kashim Shettima which are yet to be completed and allocated to people because they are presently occupied by the IDPs who have been staying there since 2016. His words: “We are now waiting for the IDPs to be decongested and thereafter, we will finish the remaining work and allocate the houses to people. We are also continuously building destroyed communities as soon as they are accessible and secured. “We have the completed ones and the ones we have proposed to build. As for the proposed ones, we have 500 in Damasak, 300 in Biu, 500 in Gubio, 500 in Marte, 500 in Gajibo, 500 in Gwoza town and 500 in Chul. We are also collaborating with the North East Development Commission (NEDC) for the construction of 10,000 housing units”. He added that the State was also looking at other avenues to reduce housing deficit drastically. In Osun State, residents condemned what they described as lip service being paid by the government to making available to the citizens houses at affordable prices, saying the purported 17 million housing deficit is grossly inadequate. Speaking with LEADERSHIP in Osogbo, an Estate developer, Mr Kunle Ademola, contended that successive governments at national and state levels had failed to consolidate on their plans to provide housing units to the people at affordable price. He decried what he described as misappropriation of public funds through ineffective housing projects from the Shehu Shagari administration’s housing policy till date. According to him, the Shehu Shagari administration constructed no fewer than 1,500 low cost housing units of varying capacities across Osun State but regretted that all the houses were abandoned. A resident in one of the Federal Housing units along Osogbo/Ilesa road who spoke on condition of anonymity said although there were buildings constructed on the massive land since 1980, they were all abandoned and taken over by animals for years and eventually became inhabitable. He noted that the occupants of the housing estate eventually bought dilapidated structures from the government even at exorbitant prices. He attributed the loss suffered by the government to lack of synergy between the people, for which the projects were designed, and the government. Also, while Osun State Property Development Corporation has no fewer than 15 functional estates, the patronage on allocation of housing units and lands to the public is not encouraging due to accessibility and rate. Besides, the houses constructed by the Bola Ige administration in Osogbo, Ilesa, Ife, Iwo and Ikirun, among others in 1981were equally abandoned for years, and was later allocated to the public for reconstruction by individuals. According to Chief Oladele Olayanju, government policies on housing will continue to fail as long as there is no adequate planning on the part of government. He attributed the failure of successive governments to provide housing to the public to fear of immediate returns of money invested in housing by governments. According to him, until the government looks at provision of housing for the people from the angle of social responsibility rather than investment, it will be difficult to address housing deficit. In Lagos, housing delivery has been given priority attention by successive governments in the state, given its huge population estimated at about 20million. Available statistics showed that the city is burdened with an estimated three million housing deficit that required huge effort to close the gap. To tackle the housing challenges, the state government came up with intervention like the Lagos Home Ownership Mortgage Scheme (LagosHOMS) which was launched about eight years ago. The scheme did not achieve the desired result because of the numerous demands it made from subscribers. The most challenging was the demand for 30 per cent equity contribution which many interested homeowners could not afford on account of poverty or low income or both. This constraint, among other factors, gave birth to the Rent-to-Own housing scheme. The new initiative which was launched in the last quarter of 2016 with special focus on first time home buyers entered the housing market with 4,355 housing units it inherited from the mortgage scheme. These houses came from 12 housing estates, including Sir Michael Otedola Estate, Odoragunsen, Epe, Odo Onasa, Agbowa, Igbogbo Housing Estate, Ikorodu, Egan -Igando Housing estate, Alimosho, Lateef Jakande Gardens, Igando also in Alimosho. Other estates for the scheme are CHOIS City, Agbowa, Olaitan Mustapha Housing Estate, Ojokoro, Iponri Estate, Surulere, Sangotedo Estate, Eti-Osa and Ajara Estate, Badagry. The scheme requires individual subscribers to pay only five per cent of the cost of the housing unit as a commitment fee and the balance would be spread over a period of 10 years with minimal interest. Still in pursuit of the vision of a Greater Lagos for decent and affordable homes to be available to all, the state government under the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu delivered a total of 1,348 homes to residents of the state within the first year in office. The state commissioner for Housing, Mr Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, said the state government has completed five housing schemes located at Igando in Alimosho local government area, Igbogbo in Igbogbo Baiyeku local council development authority, Igbokushu in Lekki Phase 1 and Idale in Badagry. He explained that the provision of decent accommodation for Lagosians was an integral part of the transformation agenda of the present administration on housing, adding that the strategies deployed in meeting this agenda involve building affordable houses through direct budgetary allocation for the completion of existing schemes as well as through Public-Private Partnerships. He said, “492 of the homes located at Lateef Kayode Jakande Gardens in Igando and 320 at LagosHoms, Igbogbo 2b, were actualised through direct budgetary allocations, while the rest were made possible through joint ventures with private investors. “The construction of 120 homes at Courtland Luxury Villa in Igbokushu, 124 homes at Lekki Apartments and 252 at Lagos State Affordable Public Housing Scheme in Idale Badagry was achieved through partnerships with Lagos State Development and Property Corporation, Le Grand Property Development Company, Step Development and Echostone Housing respectively”. He also disclosed that more schemes will be completed before the end of the year to yield additional 1,662 home units by the end of 2020. He listed the projects to include the LagosHoms, Sangotedo cluster, with 774 homes in Eti-Osa local government area; 660 homes at LagosHoms Odo-Onosa /Ayandelu in Agbowa LCDA; Iponri Estate Housing Scheme in Surulere local government area with 132 units and Lekki Phase 2 Scheme in Eti-Osa local government area having 96 units. Akinderu-Fatai averred that the government-owned housing schemes being developed across the State include the Epe Housing Scheme in Itamarun Epe local government area with 112 homes and LASU Housing Scheme with 36 units within the Lagos State University main Campus in Ojo. The Commissioner maintained that the state government was working assiduously to increase manpower development through skills upgrade of 1000 artisans in the building sector for an improved capacity as well as enhanced income generation. Before the administration of Governor Yahaya Bello in Kogi State, there were Aneibo quarters, Commissioner quarters, 200 housing unit, 500 housing unit and Poly quarters. Abdulraman Sule, a resident of Otokiti housing estate built by former Governor Ibrahim Idris, said if every governor could come out with an encompassing idea of such projects, Kogi State and its residents would be better for it. “Today in Kogi State, there’s no housing scheme and even the ones started by the Captain Wada administration were abandoned by the present administration. The reason is that it was another person’s initiative under different government”, he added. In Rivers, right from the administration of former Governor Rufus Ada-George of Old Rivers State in 1992, successive civilian administrations in the state had always embarked on housing schemes as a way of providing Infrastructure for the state. However, the N82billion Rainbow Town Estate located at the Trans-Amadi area of Port Harcourt of the state, was initiated by the Odili administration in the year 2000. The estate which occupies 23.4 hectares of land will deliver 1,181 residential choice houses comprising terraces, detached and high-rise condominiums in a mixed upscale estate But, the Amaechi-led administration in 2008 entered into a private partnership project (PPP) with a new generation bank, which led to the commencement of the construction of several units of houses at the estate. Speaking with LEADERSHIP, a resident of Port Harcourt Igbiks Gad regretted that the state government and the bank have refused to resolve their differences for the housing project to be completed. Speaking also, another resident of Port Harcourt, Oroma Amadi, attributed the delay in the completion of the estate to political rivalry between Governor Nyesom Wike and former Governor Rotimi Amaechi. In Imo State, successive administrations had displayed lackadaisical attitude in responding to the provision of housing for the citizens, as they seem to have relegated to the background this all important component for a decent livelihood. The citizens find it difficult, if not impossible to afford the exorbitant rate of house rent in the city, as most civil servants who are not able to pay for house rents operate from their various villages. However, the administrations of Dr. Sam Mbakwe and Chief Achike Udenwa were empathic to the plights of the citizens. The administration of Mbakwe collaborated with the relevant authorities such as the Federal Mortgage Bank and the World Bank, which gave birth to the construction of World Bank Estate in New Owerri. The birth of this project provided succour to civil servants and the masses who were groaning under high cost of renting an apartment in the state. The Udenwa administration, having realised how germane the provision of housing schemes were to the work force and the populace, continued in that direction by erecting the Achike Udenwa estate in New Owerri and the Redemption estate in Umuguma. These projects were all completed during their various tenures and people are living comfortably in those apartments. Consequently, the Imo State governor, Hope Uzodimma has expressed desire to see that civil servants retire to their homes which the state government would construct for them. He explained that this housing scheme would be decentralised into three senatorial zones namely, Owerri, Orlu and Okigwe. The governor noted that this novel arrangement is aimed at accommodating all strata of the society. Uzodimma, however revealed that the state government has concluded arrangement to kickstart with 1,000 housing units in the three zones, so as to alleviate the suffering of the masses. In Katsina State, Mr Rabiu Aliyu, of Federal Morgage Bank said that scarcity of funds, government policies, diversion of funds, increased interest rate and inflation are often responsible for abandoned housing projects across the country. He however suggested that in order to prevent such from happening, developers and contractors should consolidate on their job and avoid personal demands from overtaking their work. Aliyu further added that government should also control prices of building materials in the country in order to avoid inflation, adding that there was a need to also avoid multiple or high taxation. In Plateau state, the government had entered into agreements with various developers to construct about 33,000 housing units within the Greater Jos master plan. It also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with a Chinese company to provide 7,500 units in the three senatorial districts of the state. This is apart from the federal government’s mass housing unit which has already taken off at Laminga in Jos East local government area. Our correspondent gathered from the Plateau State Ministry of Housing and Urban Development that there is estimated deficit of between 450,000 to 500,000 units for the entire state and a 240,000 deficit for the Greater Jos master plan area. The Greater Jos master plan comprises of Jos North, Jos South and parts of Jos east, Bassa and Barkin Ladi local government areas. Some of the communities where the housing units will be constructed have two or three sites such as Mista Ali, Kwang, Kwata and Bisichi. Other locations include Naraguta, Dong, Jebu Miango, Jebu Bassa and around the National Centre for Remote Sensing. A resident of Dong village, one of the communities where one of the housing units was located, Mr Vincent Joshua, lamented the slow pace of work on the site. He appealed to the state government and other government agencies responsible for the construction work to do everything possible to ensure its speedy completion. Stakeholders have said based on these statistics, the cumulative of over 40,000 units that the present administration of Governor Simon Lalong intends to provide was grossly inadequate. However, what were left in the State is the low cost housing units of the 70’s and the Shagari’s mass housing scheme in the 80’s. Also, Gyang Pam, a resident of Jos South local government council, told our correspondent that there are fears that low income earners may likely be sidelined in the housing allocation. It was also gathered from civil servants in the state that about 5000 forms have already been distributed to interested civil servants to access mortgage facilities from the Federal Housing Authority mortgage bank under the National Housing Fund (NHF) The present administration signed agreements with nine developers and the immediate past administration had already signed agreement with six developers, making it 15. At least, four of the developers have moved to site while four others are expected to move to the site too. Efforts to speak to the commissioner for Housing, Hon Bitrus Zulfa on efforts to bridge the housing deficit in the state failed as he didn’t pick calls put through to his mobile phone line. In Kaduna State, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, had in 2018, during his first tenure, performed a ground breaking ceremony of housing units at Kaduna Millennium City to tackle the housing deficit. Although the investment was a public private partnership, many houses were completed. However, in his second term, the governor commenced the construction of social housing scheme as part of his administration’s urban renewal project. The state commissioner for Housing and Urban Development, Fausat Ibikunle, revealed that N3billion was earmarked for the construction of houses for the low income earners in 2020. The commissioner said before the end of this year, Kaduna State government plans to build more than 1,000 units of houses for the less privileged and the low-income earners in the State. She said, “We have various sites for these projects. One is in Rigasa in Igabi local government. We have another one in Unguwar Tanko in Chikun local government, close to Maraban Rido, all within Kaduna. “That of Rigasa, we have completed our procurement processes and we have awarded the contracts and the project has actually commenced. We awarded the contract to about 11 different contractors. It is located at the Rigasa link road that connects the train station with Mando road”. “If you go there now, you will see workers and a lot of activities are going on. We have also awarded contract for the second tranche, which is the building of another 200 units at Unguwar Tanko”. The commissioner explained that the social housing scheme is a Public Private Partnership (PPP) project as many of them are at various levels of completion. Governors Seek Revitalisation Of Mortgage Bank To Boost Scheme Meanwhile, governors of the 36 states of the federation have called for the revitalisation Nigeria’s Mortgage Bank to support government’s ambitious housing programme. This was contained in a communiqué issued after the teleconference meeting of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF). Chairman of the NGF and Ekiti State governor, Kayode Fayemi also stressed the importance of the N2trillion Nigeria Infrastructure Investment Fund to stimulate the economy. He said the forum endorsed the work of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s committee to consolidate measures to gradually open the formal and informal sectors of the economy. According to him, the forum also endorsed the work of the Nasir el-Rufai committee and resolved to engage the vice president and chairman of the National Economic Council, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, to facilitate states’ representation in the implementation committee of the Nigeria Economic Sustainability Plan. He said, “Collaborate with the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and FERMA to ensure the implementation of the 5 percent user charge on the pump price of petrol and the international vehicle transit charge to better fund road projects in Nigeria”.