The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released provisional list of candidates for Edo governorship election. The list according to the electoral body is in accordance with the timetable and schedule of activities released by the Commission on 6 February, 2020. A statement signed by the national commissioner and chairman,  Information and Voter Education, Festus Okoye, and made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja, he said 15 political parties signified their intention to conduct primaries for the nomination of their candidates for the Edo Governorship election. Okoye said the conduct of the primaries by political parties ended on 27 June, 2020. The statement reads in part: “At the close of nominations at 6pm on June 29, 2020, 14 political parties used the dedicated online portal of the commission to submit the list of candidates that emerged from their primaries. “The provisional list of the candidates disaggregated on the basis of name, gender, age and qualification has been uploaded on our website and social media platforms. “Furthermore, and as required by law, the particulars of the nominated candidates will be published in the Edo State office of the Commission and simultaneously uploaded on our website on Thursday 2 July, 2020. He encouraged members of the public to go through the nomination forms, affidavits and documents submitted by the parties on behalf of their candidates. Okoye said, “Any person who has reasonable grounds to believe that any information in the affidavit or any document submitted by any candidate is false, may file a suit at the Federal High Court, High Court of a State or the FCT against such a candidate seeking a declaration that the information contained in the affidavit is false.  “The final list of duly nominated candidates will be published on 13 August, 2020 after withdrawals by candidates and substitution by their political parties.”  On Ondo governorship election and Nasarawa Central State Constituency bye-election, he called on political parties interested in nominating candidates for the Ondo governorship election that the conduct of party primaries will commence on 2 July and end on 25 July, 2020.  He said, “The last date for the submission of the names of duly nominated candidates is 28 July, 2020. For the Nasarawa State Central Constituency bye-election, the conduct of primaries for the nomination of candidates starts today, 30 June and will end on 6 July, 2020.”  He noted that the commission was impressed by the seamless online nomination of candidates for the Edo governorship election using our newly introduced dedicated portal.  He said the same procedure will apply to the Ondo governorship, the Nasarawa Central State Constituency bye-election and all subsequent elections to be conducted by the Commission.  Accordingly,  said political parties are encouraged to obtain their nomination access codes from the Commission for the bye-election and upload the list of their candidates and their particulars to the dedicated portal between July 3 and July 7, 2020.  “For the Ondo Governorship Election, the Commission’s dedicated portal for the submission of the names of candidates that emerge from valid party primaries will open on July 21 and close on July 28, 2020. Political parties are encouraged to submit the list of their candidates on time as the portal will automatically close at 6pm on the last date for the submission of nominations.  “The commission will like to take this opportunity to again draw the attention of all political parties, candidates, aspirants and supporters on the need to obey all laws, regulations and guidelines especially in their campaigns. Equally important is the need for strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols to ensure their safety and well-being, as well as that of members of the public,” he added. 