Kano state governor and chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Edo State Governorship National Campaign Council, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, has said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is only interested in the treasury of Edo state and not governor Godwin Obaseki himself. Ganduje added that the people of Edo state were fully aware of the antics of the opposition party and will do everything possible to resist gifting the state to the PDP in the September 19 governorship poll. Speaking with newsmen Monday in Abuja at the national secretariat of APC after the inauguration of APC national campaign council, Ganduje opined that the PDP and Obaseki have no common political ideology or interest except for reasons of looting the treasury of the Edo people using Obaseki as a draining pipe. He said: “the PDP decided to accommodate our former governor in Edo state not because they have anything in common, not because they share some feelings, but simply because he is managing the treasury of Edo state and they want him to use that treasury in order to win the election. “But I assure you that the people of Edo state are watching. They know that somebody who was assisted in 2016 to win an election, somebody who was given every cooperation to succeed in governance of Edo State without doing much for the people, at the end of it, he’s taken the treasury and now handed it over to PDP in order to win the election. “The people of Edo state will not accept this treachery. The people of Edo State on the 19th September will come out enmasse and vote APC.” “The reason why I’m saying that, you know the composition of this committee, we have all war veteran in politics who are ready to go. And we have young people who are just coming out from election and are ready to go back into the processes of election again. And we have all the horses who never missed their targets “So, we assure you, the composition of this campaign council is strong and we are ready to do the job. Ganduje said the campaign team of APC is equal to the task and can easily match the arrays of politician in the campaign committee of the PDP led by Rivers state governor, Nyesom Wike. “We know the opposition is planning to rig the election, we know there are tactics, we know there methodology and we shall dismantle all their tactics to ensure that we win this election “We know PDP made Wike their chairman,  I assure you, we will isolate Wike in an isolation centre and before he recovers, the election is over.” Inaugurating the campaign council, the chairman of the APC Caretaker/ Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Gov. Mai Mal  Buni said the assignment before his leadership is to include a peaceful and united APC and ensure successful renewal of mandate by the good people of Edo state who voted the party in 2016. Buni appealed to every stakeholder and members of the party across the country to support the peace initiative for the stronger,  united and prosperous APC. He said: “I’m here to say that the caretaker committee which I’m opportune to lead appreciate wide range of consultations and this is the means to  pave way for true and sincere reconciliation. “I also draw a roadmap,  plan and action to form partnership among the stakeholders. We are committed to rebuilding confidence and trust through the party across the country.  To actualise these measures,  we must engage in all inclusive consultation that accommodate and fix various challenges facing the party.” Apart from members of the council, governors Babajide Sanwo – Olu, Yahaya Bello and Mohammed Yahaya Inuwa of Lagos, Kogi and Gombe respectively were present at the ceremony.