President Muhammadu Buhari has joined the All Progressives Congress (APC), government and people of Kwara State in mourning the passing of Alhaji Aminu Adisa Logun, Chief of Staff to Kwara State Governor, describing him as a dedicated public officer. President Buhari in a statement by his media aide, Garba Shehu said: “I just received the sad and unfortunate news on death of Alhaji Logun, a successful industrialist and consummate public intellectual. He was a passionate member of our party, APC, who worked for its
progress at state and national levels.
Meanwhile, Logun reportedly died of complications from COVID-19 yesterday. The chief press secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaye confirmed Logun’s death in a statement last night. The statement reads: “With total submission to the will of the
Almighty Allah, we wish to announce the passing of the Chief of Staff to the Governor of Kwara State Aminu Adisa Logun (mni). “Logun, an industrialist, a public intellectual, and an elder
statesman, died Tuesday evening of complications from COVID-19. He died only a few hours after the test of his result returned positive. “The entire government and the people of Kwara State have lost an outstanding public servant who diligently served the state at various times, including as Chief of Staff to the Governor from June 7, 2019 until he returned to his Lord. “The Governor has declared a seven-day mourning in honour of the late Chief of Staff. The Governor commiserates with the family of the late Chief of Staff
and the entire Ilorin Emirate for this tragic development.
We pray the Almighty Allah to grant him Al-Jannah Firdaus and give the family the fortitude to bear the huge loss.
Details about his janazah will be made public by the family and the government in due course. ” Edo Guber: Wike Accuses APC Of Plots To Use Security Agents By Chibuzo Ukaibe, Abuja Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Campaign Council for the Edo State Governorship Election, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of planning to take undue advantage of security agents during the election. Wike stated this during the inauguration of 93-member PDP national campaign council for Edo State election in Abuja, yesterday. He stated this against the backdrop of threats by the chairman of APC Campaign Council and Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, to “isolate” him until the elections were over. Wike further advised PDP not to take Ganduje’s statement with levity, stressing that the plan might be to use security agencies to scare way the people of Edo State and rig the election. The Rivers governor said his Kano State counterpart is not a match for him, stressing, “Between me and a man who has been caught pocketing dollars, who deserves to be isolated?” He added, “Let me tell you, why they made Ganduje the chairman of the campaign council. It is because of the dollar they saw. But for dollar, Ganduje could not have been made the chairman of the campaign council. But what he doesn’t understand is that we from the Niger Delta, we shall chop his dollar and we will chop him into comma. So Ganduje, your dollar will not work in Edo State; we have integrity
in our party.” He added, “So he just used me to say that they will isolate me, no, I am not at his level. What he was telling Nigerians is look, in this election, we shall make sure that Edo people don’t come out to vote. Even if they vote, we will not allow them to protect and defend their votes. “Edo people, now they have told you that they will not allow you to vote and even if you vote, they will not allow you to protect and defend your votes. “It is a direct challenge to all of you leaders here from Edo State, because we members of the campaign council, we cannot vote because we did not register to vote in Edo State.” he added. On his part, PDP national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus said the party’s campaign has been made easy by the statements of the former national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole. Secondus told the campaign council members that Oshiomhole has supplied the party with information needed to establish to the people of Edo State that APC has no candidate in the election, noting that its own candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki is a square peg in a square
hole. No Misappropriation Of Funds In Law School – CLE Secretary By Kunle Olasanmi, Abuja The Council of Legal Education, has described as misleading the report that the school approved the payment of N32 million to an unnamed cleaner over a period of 12 months and N36 million as dressing allowance against Nigeria extant laws. The secretary of the council and director of Administration, Mrs. E. Max-Uba, in a statement said the Director General of the Nigerian Law School, Prof. Isa Hayatu Chiroma, SAN, was wrongly quoted when he appeared at a public hearing conducted by the Senate Committee on Public Accounts (SPAC), in connection with the annual report of the
Auditor-General of the Federation on the Accounts of various
Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government of Nigeria for the year ended 31st December, 2015. There were reports that the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation queried the payment of N36 million as dressing allowance and the payment of N32 million to an unnamed cleaner over a period of 12 months against Nigeria extant laws. The institution admitted that queries were raised from the office of the AGF but also said explanations were equally made about how the funds were spent without the violations of extant laws. Mrs. Max-Uba said in the statement, ”The Council of Legal Education traditionally has a dress code for its staff and students as part of its work ethics. ln furtherance of this tradition, the Council approved a Scheme and Condition of Service on March 10, 2009 that provides in part, the payment of 10 per cent dressing allowance to its staff. Reps To Probe $1bn Withdrawals From NLNG Dividends Account By Kauthar Anumba-Khaleel, Abuja The House of Representatives is set to beam its searchlight on the dividends account of the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG), to uncover illegal withdrawals of the sum of $1.05 billion by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The resolution is consequent upon a motion on the need to investigate the illegal withdrawals, sponsored by Hon. Ndudi Elumelu wherein he noted that Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) was incorporated as a limited liability company in 1989 with the aim of producing liquefied natural gas and natural gas liquids for export purposes and its production kick started in 1999. Elumelu also noted that the NLNG is jointly owned by the Government of Nigeria ably represented by the NNPC with a shareholding of 49 per cent, Shell Gas B.V, 25.6 per cent, Total LNG Nigeria LTD, 15 per cent and ENI International, 10.4 per cent. He further noted that the dividends from the NLNG are supposed to be paid into the consolidated revenue funds account of the federal government, and to be shared amongst the three tiers of government. The lawmaker however worried that “the NNPC who represents the government of Nigeria on the board of the NLNG has unilaterally, without the required consultations with states and the mandatory appropriation from the National Assembly illegally tampered with the funds at the NLNG dividends account to the tune of 1.05 billion
dollars, thereby violating the nations appropriation law. Gunmen Kill Army Officer In Kogi, 2 Benue Livestock Guards By Sam Egwu, Lokoja and HEMBADOON ORSAR MAKURDI
The remains of a Nigeria Army Capt, GSM Abubakar who was killed along Lokoja- Okene highway has been moved to his hometown in Niger State for burial. A source close to the mortuary unit of the Federal Medical Centre, Lokoja told our correspondent that the family of the deceased and few men in military uniform took the remains of the slain army officer at about 1.45 pm yesterday afternoon in a military ambulance. Capt Abubakar serving at 353 Artillery Ojo Cantonment was said to have been killed on Sunday by suspected armed robbers when he was traveling in his Honda civic car. In a related development, Benue State Livestock Guards has confirmed the killing of two of its members by the marauding herdsmen at Tombo council ward, Gaambe’Tiev, near Ayilamo, Logo local government area of Benue State
while performing their official duty. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Catherine Anene who confirmed the killings however said she is yet to ascertain whether those killed were members of the Livestock Guards. The Livestock Guards Commander, Linus Zaki who disclosed this to newsmen in Makurdi explained that on Monday 6th of July, 2020, he received information that herders had brought in cattle and were openly grazing on people’s farms in Logo, and he quickly mobilized some of the Guards to the said location. According to him, the guards met some young herders with cows destroying people’s farms and impounded them and were taking the animals and the herders with them according to the law, and other armed herders ambushed, attacked and shot the Guards killing Aondohemba and Gbaior on the spot, before the arrival of Agro Rangers of Civil Defence Corps on the scene. While condemning the dastardly act, Mr Zaki described the attack on members of Livestock Guards as unprovoked adding that the Guards do not carry arms. He said that the mandate given to them by the Benue State government is to ensure that both farmers and herders strictly abide
by the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law 2017. Sharp Practices, Job Racketeering Not Under My Watch – Dankaka BY ERNEST NZOR, Abuja The executive chairman of Federal Character Commission, Dr. Muheeba Farida Dankaka Oon, has said that cases of sharp practices, acts of indiscipline and suspected job racketeering would not be tolerated under her watch. Dankaka stated this in a statement signed by Director of Public Affairs and Communication, Mr. Dipo Akinsola, after meeting with the management staff of the Commission yesterday in Abuja. She said that under her watch, she would not tolerate any act of indiscipline. According to her the management team has a pivotal role to play under the new administration and therefore enjoined them to be in synergy with her in moving Federal Character Commission forward and refrain from attitude that negates the principle and guideline of the commission. The chairman having listened to the management members and head of units promised to look into the welfare of staff as a way of encouraging productivity and efficiency in the commission. APC, Masari Describe Late Inuwa As Courageous Man BY ANKELI EMMANUEL, Sokoto The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday described late Barrister Inuwa Abudilkadir as a great loss to not only the party, and Sokoto State but the entire country. APC in a condolence message delivered by Kebbi State governor, Abubakar Bagudu to his Sokoto counterpart Aminu Waziri Tambuwal said the demise of the party’s erstwhile National Vice Chairman (North-West), Barrister Inuwa Abdulkadir was very shocking. Governor Atiku Bagudu, who represented the national leadership of APC at the residence of the deceased in Sokoto, condoled with the immediate family of late Barrister Inuwa Abudilkadir. In a related development, the governor of Katsina State Aminu Bello Masari who was also in Sokoto
to condole with Governor Amimu Waziri Tambuwal, family of the deceased and the people of Sokoto State over the demise of Inuwa said that it was a huge loss to the party. Responding, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal thanked the governors for the visit and prayed Allah to reward them abundantly. Late Inuwa Abdulkadir died at the age of 54
following a brief illness. Police In Kebbi Arrest 16 Criminals By KABIR WURMA, BIRNIN Kebbi. Kebbi State Police command yesterday said it has arrested 16 persons suspected to be criminals terrorizing people of the state. Briefing newsmen in his office at Police headquarters in Birnin Kebbi, commissioner of Police in the state, Agunbiade Oluyemi Lasore stated that the suspects were arrested at different locations in the state for committing crimes such as; rape, unlawful possession of arms, theft, trespass, homosexuality, kidnapping and homicide. He said that the command would charge them to court as soon as they finished investigations over their various offences.
He called on motorcyclists in the state to desist from taking
strange people to unknown destinations, which resulted to their death, and kidnapping. He also appealed to the general public to always assist the police with vital information on criminal activities at their abodes for immediate arrest of the criminals who are terrorising the state.