Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke of the Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday vacated his order barring the federal government from withdrawing operational licenses from 10 Marginal Oil Field Operators.  Justice Aneke, lifted the order, while delivering a ruling in a preliminary objection motion raised by the Ministry of Petroleum and Engineer Auwaul Sarki, a director in the Department Petroleum Resources (DPR), that they were not properly served with the court processes. The judge had on June 3 this year restrained the federal government through the Ministry of Petroleum, the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and Sarki, from withdrawing the licence pending the hearing and determination of the suit filed by the operators. The court also directed that the order and processes in the motion on notice be served personally on the respondents after listening to an ex-parte application filed and argued by their lawyers, Tayo Oyetibo (SAN) and Uche Nwokedi (SAN). However, the Marginal Oil Field Operators, had told the court that the order and other processes in the suit were served on the respondents via their official e-mail address contrary to the submissions of the respondents. In his ruling, Justice Aneke, after citing plethora of Supreme Court’s authorities, held that the Marginal Oil Operators failed to comply with the court order, which directed them to serve all the processes on the respondents’ address, which he said was contrary to the Rules of Admissibility. He further held that the Practice Direction which the applicants based the service of the processes on cannot supersede the ruling, but ought to compliment it.  The judge thereby set-aside the restraining order made on June 3, 2020, against the respondents and ordered that the whole process commence De Novo (afresh).  After the restraining order was set-aside, counsel to the 10 Marginal Oil Operators, Oyetibo (SAN), pleaded with the court to urge the counsel to the respondents to accept the services of the processes on behalf of their clients.  He also urged the court to make an order or urged the respondents not to tamper with the subject matter of the suit, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit. Responding, counsel to the respondents, Dr. Wale Olawoyin (SAN), while conceding to accept the processes in the suit on behalf of his clients, also promised that the government will not do anything with the subject matter until the determination of the suit.  Following the submissions of the parties, Justice Aneke adjourned till July 20, for hearing of the motion for an interlocutory injunction filed by the plaintiffs. 