The Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC) has called for a joint prayer to seek God’s intervention to stop the spread of the COVID 19 and put a permanent end to the pandemic. Recall that since 30 April, 2020, the Nigeria inter-religious council (NIREC) has been calling on all Christians and Muslims to take part in the national weekly prayer conducted online with zoom meeting every Thursday in collaboration with the Office of the Secretary to Government of the Federation (OSGF), the Nigeria television authority (NTA) and UFUK Dialogue Foundation. A statement signed by NIREC executive secretary, Rev. Fr. Cornelius Omonokhua, also lauded the efforts of the Presidential Task Force on COVID 19, which according to them has done all that is humanly possible to animate and create awareness on how to keep safe from infection of the coronavirus. The statement said the representatives of ‘’the two principal religions Islam and Christianity in Nigeria voluntarily decided to come together to form an association on the 11th day of September, 1999, and the association having been inaugurated on the 29th day of September, 1999, guided by our divine revelations and the dictates of our CREATOR, determined, within the context of our religions, to forge inter-religious harmony and concord.’’ It said NIREC firmly and solemnly resolved, within the confines of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, to live in unity, harmony and peace for the welfare, security and prosperity of our people and our nation under God (Preamble, Constitution of NIREC, as amended, 12th March, 2020, Page 3). ‘’In furtherance of this effort, NIREC calls for three days fasting and prayers (July 3-5, 2020) for every Nigerian.
‘’The Muslims will begin on Friday 3, 2020 by praying in the Abuja National Mosque while the Christians will end the Prayer on Sunday 5 July, 2020 in the National Christian Centre. These prayers will respect the social distance.
NIREC calls on everybody to seek the face of God in fasting and prayers for God to put an end to the COVID 19 pandemic,’’ the statement added.