Edo State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Monday urged the electorates not to give in to the violence attack, threats of the opposition All Progressive Congress, APC, assuring that the Edo state government and security agencies are capable in nipping any security threats  ahead of the September, 19th Governorship election. The party also condemned last weekend assault on PDP governor’s convoy outside the Oba of Benin palace as APC and PDP supporters had engaged in a bloody clash. In an apparent reactions to the attack, PDP state publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, at a press conference at the party’s Secretariat stated that  Edo people are happy with the developmental strides of Governor Godwin Obaseki and are ready to vote back the governor for a second term. He stated: “PDP as a political party is very interested in peace in Edo state, we rejects, discouraged and condemned the mobilization of thugs to settle political scores or use in campaign” “We are aware few days ago,  our opponent from what we saw in the social media went to visit some known thugs and members of his party that called themselves ‘lions and tigers’ of Edo state. This people were encouraged, instigated and mobilized to attack Edo people” “In the video that trended on social media, you will also noticed that he even told them we know you are dangerous and that it transcend all units, wards and local government. They were encouraged to beat up and threatened Edo Electorates. The essence of the visit is to intimidate, threatened and make Edo people scared to come out to vote”. “We are here to tell Edo people that with all the threats, Edo state government and the security agencies will nipped all the negative plans they have and their plans will not succeed. We have continue to reject APC in Edo state” The party also called on Edo people not to be swayed by the former National chairman of the All Progressive Congress, APC’s, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s apologies adding that the former labour leader cannot be trusted for his flip-flop. “We also noticed that yesterday, the former chairman of APC apologising ,  kneeling down begging for forgiveness, we find it ridiculous that a man who stood at the podium 4 years ago to Condemned his candidate today and even called him all sort of names and that he even offered to dropped his immunity. He cannot be trusted, a man that flip-flop, Edo people should not take him seriously”. 