Impressed with the revamp of the Government Science and Technical College (GSTC), formerly Benin Technical College, parents, teachers and students have commended the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, for his administration’s sustained investments in the education sector. Speaking to journalists in Benin City, the stakeholders reaffirmed their support for the reelection bid of the governor and his deputy, Rt. Hon. Comr. Philip Shaibu, noting that the administration’s interest and intervention in the education sector was responsible for the growing popularity of Technical, Vocational Education and Training (TVET) in the state. According to Abiodun Ekundayo, a JSS 3 student of GSTC, “We now learn in a conducive environment with 24 hours electricity, while our teachers have been trained and equipped to impact effectively. We have a state-of-the-art library and ICT laboratories with internet connectivity. “Formerly what we had was nothing to be called a library, there were usually no useful books but now the library has been upgraded and made accessible with relevant books. Today, we borrow books and take home to prepare ahead of the next day’s class. We had over 80 students in a classroom in the past but now every class is less than 30 students with a two-to- a-seat sitting arrangement to ensure we are comfortable, unlike before when it was four students to a seat. Learning has never been this fun and we thank Governor Obaseki for the transformation.” Osaige Williams, a Computer Science Teacher at the school, applauded the governor for invigorating technical and vocational education, noting that the new look of the college has made Edo residents take interest in the school, causing student enrollment to spike. He noted: “Since the coming of the governor, the place has been built to standard and transformed into a first-class learning centre; students can now learn and practice with computers from JSS1 to SS3. There’s a library and an e-library for research. The children are now more enthusiastic about learning; they are inquisitive and are catching up smartly. We can’t be grateful enough to the governor for this.” One of the parents, Abiodun Osagie said: “Today, my children are performing excellently and happy to go to school. The revamping of the school has piqued students’ interest for learning and once it is 7 am my children are already in school. “Formerly, children were running and hiding to evade going to school but now all that has changed; they are now flocking back to the classrooms without persuasion and coercion. I am impressed and happy about this outcome and I pray that God gives Governor Obaseki the strength and wisdom to actualise his dreams in order to consolidate on his achievements.” Also, Mrs. Omorogbese, Vice Principal at the school commended the governor for his all-round revamp of the state’s education sector, noting: “We are happy that these facilities are here for us to use. When you are very comfortable the child will be able to learn and assimilate better. We have found ourselves in a very conducive atmosphere and that has affected our teaching and learning positively. We’re grateful to the governor for what he has done for us.”