Positive reactions have continued to trail federal government’s decision to create a digital identity for every Nigerian citizen, with most people saying it would impact positively on critical sectors in the country. Experts and academics who spoke with our correspondents described the move as a welcome development, saying it will help the government in tackling insecurity as well as getting correct data for planning purposes. The federal government had in June inaugurated the steering committee for the digital identity for development ecosystem project to fast-track the implementation of the strategic roadmap for accelerating digital identity development in the country. Inaugurating the committee, secretary to government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who also doubles as the chairman of the team, said digital identification is central and critical to realising the objective of the Government’s Economic and Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP). He said the strategic roadmap, approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on September 12, 2018 is a culmination of the enormous collective efforts and contributions of numerous institutions and stakeholders which started in 2015 when the President Muhammadu Buhari administration resolved to forge a credible and cost-effective pathway for identification management. Many Nigerians who have continued to laud the federal government proposed digital identity plan however prayed it would not amount to wastage. Speaking on federal government’s plan to give all Nigerians digital identity, former acting vice-chancellor of Lagos State University (LASU), Prof Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, said it was a welcome development, but expressed concerns about the security of the data. She said, “It is a welcome development because when you go to more advanced countries they use it and it is used wisely. They use it to know how many citizens there are among others, but here in Nigeria we don’t have such records. “As such different sectors resort to having their own data. But with this federal government initiative and everything put together, it will be secured. “My only concern is the security of our data. If the federal government can assure us that it will be secured, then we are on the right track with this because it will help everybody; it will help businesses, and it will help with planning in the different strata of government.” Professor Olatunji-Bello added that the education sector will benefit a great deal from the digital identity as it would help in planning better for the education sector. “It all boils down to planning; planning to improve education, planning to bring education to the people, planning to know the number of children that would be in school at a particular time, planning to know the number of children that would be in classes, planning to know those that should have access to quality education. This can help reshape the number of people in the education sector, with proper calculations and necessary provisions from that data,” she noted. She however urged the government to employ appropriate people to secure the data of Nigerians that they would have access to. Also commenting on plans by the federal government to give Nigerians digital identity, former deputy governor of Ogun State, Senator Adegbenga Sefiu Kaka, described the planned digital identity for all Nigerians as a welcome development that is long overdue. Kaka who spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday in Abeokuta on phone said provided the federal government would carry out the exercise with all sincerity and devoid of corruption, the planned digital identity would naturally go a long way at eliminating challenges of inaccurate census data as well as duplication of efforts by federal ministries and agencies. He stated: “It is a welcome development as it will enable us to have accurate and reliable statistics of every individual we need to cater for in all ramifications. “The fear is that even the ordinary national identity card project, we have had several attempts. A lot of money has been expended on it without result. So also is the issue of national census. If this could be done, it will naturally make issues of inaccurate census statistics a thing of the past. Data gathered in the next census exercise will be credible and acceptable to all. “Again, a lot of duplication of efforts would have been eliminated. All the inconveniences being faced by Nigerians each time we approach federal government’s Ministries, Agencies and Departments (MDAs) on matters of data capturing, when they could have done it with a single sum of money that will take care of everybody, will vanish as data will now be picked from the central pool for whatever use. “So, if it could be done and uploaded, not wasted, not corrupted, I will say it is a welcome development. It is long overdue. But an Osogbo based lawyer, Barrister kola Olamide, expressed reservation that the intended data gathering mechanism may however not be sufficient to capture all Nigerians. He noted that there are a lot of people, particularly in rural communities, who may lose out because they are not captured by the proposed existing data to be used. Olamide however posited that when successfully implemented, it would reduce criminality in the society. According to him, it would assist law enforcement agencies to make enquiries with quick responses that can help prosecute cases. Also, a Human Rights activist, Mr kunle Olamijulo, commended the initiative, noting that it would guide the government to fashion policies that would accommodate all Nigerians. He however expressed the fear that it might be another avenue to enrich some people and dump the results in the waste basket like similar ones embarked on in the past. Also, a digital computer expert, Victor Abereifa, said he was optimistic that the available data from BVN, drivers’ licence and passports, with NIMC’s NIN are sufficient to carry out the exercise. For managing director, Innace Investment Nigeria Limited, Engineer Gbolahan Lawal, the federal government’s plan to issue digitised identity cards to Nigerians in the next five years is possible and achievable. Lawal told LEADERSHIP Sunday that the digital identity card would be more convenient in carrying out more activities of the government as it relates to planning. According to him, with the digital identity card, Nigerians will be able to transact businesses, insurance and cashless services without any hindrances. Noting that a digital identity card was bigger than a passport, Lawal said it cannot be exchanged by individuals. He added that it would be used to easily and quickly detect crimes since it could be used to store any information about a particular property, especially vehicle and personal information such as blood group that could be used in case of theft. Lawal further observed that it could also be used for insurance purposes. The steering committee for the digital identity inaugurated last month by SGF Mustapha is saddled with the responsibility of positively steeing the project to accomplish government’s objectives, consolidate efforts to date and deliver goals outlined in the strategic roadmap. Mustapha said the work of the steering committee shall be guided by the following terms of reference as approved by President Buhari, including: to review the legal and regulatory framework for digital identity development; implement the strategic roadmap; utilise foundational identity to access services; determine the location of the ecosystem strategic unit; and receive the report on the implementation through the DG NIMC and provide necessary guidance and approval. Addressing the committee at inauguration, Mustapha said the strategic roadmap would offer a credible pathway for the government to develop identification, at a low cost, fast pace and in a trusted environment. The SGF stated: “The task before the committee is to ensure that Federal Government of Nigeria leverages the existing ecosystem of government agencies, states, and trusted private partners to carry out nationwide enrolment through a viable partnership strategy with an effective public awareness campaign. “As a nation, we have a lot of grounds to cover and our fundamental ID goal can only be reached through joint efforts and coordinated approach. “Of course, without meaning to enumerate the issues associated with the absence of a foundational ID system which you are all familiar with, the existence of a National Identification Number (NIN) for all Nigerians would improve our delivery of Government services,” he said. 