The federal government recently announced plans to reopen schools for exiting students in primary and secondary schools across the country. The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 said critical and revision classes for JSS 3 and SS 3 students would resume to prepare them for their final examinations. Specifically, the PTF headed by secretary to government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, not that students in graduating classes Primary 6, JSS 3 and SS 3 will be allowed to resume in preparation for examinations. It has been around three months since schools closed in more than 190 countries, affecting 1.57 billion children and youths. This constitutes 90% of the world’s student population. According to UNICEF monitoring, 134 countries are currently implementing nationwide closures and 38 are implementing local closures, impacting about 98.5 per cent of the world’s student population. Schools in 39 countries are currently open. Closures happened in quick succession as a measure to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. But when it comes to reopening of schools, the tempo is far more uncertain. According to UNESCO data, 100 countries have not yet announced a date for schools to reopen, 65 have plans for partial or full reopening, while 32 will end the academic year online. For 890 million students however, the school calendar has never been so undefined. When and how to reopen schools is one of the toughest and most sensitive decisions on political agendas today. The decision is complex because the pandemic continues to evolve, and not in linear manner. There is insufficient evidence on risks of transmission. Everywhere, confinement will be lifted gradually, with many question marks on how the process will be managed, to a greater extent because there are many characteristics of the virus that we just don’t know. Yet, even with the current uncertainties, governments can anticipate and prepare to reopen schools successfully, putting the necessary safeguards in place. The United Nations Secretary-General, António Guterres, recently called on governments and donors to prioritise education for all children, including the most marginalised. As can be expected, the longer the interruption, the larger the learning loss. Hence, the earlier schools can reopen the less risk of long-term damage to the learning journeys and well-being of  millions of children. As a newspaper, we are concerned that prolonged school closures will exacerbate inequalities, deepen the learning crisis and expose the most vulnerable children to heightened risk of exploitation. We know from other crises that the longer marginalised children are out of school, the less likely they are to return. After the Ebola crisis in West Africa, we saw increased rates of sexual exploitation and teen pregnancy, demonstrating how girls are particularly at risk during school closure. Schools are not only places of learning. They provide social protection, nutrition, health and emotional support that are a life security for the most disadvantaged, and this applies in all countries, from low to high income. The World Food Programme estimates that 370 million children are not receiving school meals as a result of school closure. This is not a simple matter of weighing risks and benefits. The absolute priority is to safeguard the lives and well-being of communities, including children and teaching personnel. Consultation and communication with parents, teachers, students and communities at large are necessary to understand concerns and address them. This ensures the confidence and support for school reopening that is a prerequisite for informed policies, financing and operational measures. The key message is that these decisions are context specific and depend on the capacity of schools to mitigate risks of infection transmission and promote healthy behaviours. Critical conditions to assess include access to soap and clean water for hand washing, as well as protocols on social distancing. Safety can also mean reducing the number of students on site through double shifts, prioritising early grades or particular target groups, or continuing with a blended learning approach. Schools’ reopening during this global crisis is not a return to normal. We must do things not only differently, but better. Ahead of the reopening of educational institutions in Nigeria, the  federal government has outlined conditions to be met by each of the schools. The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, announced the conditions in Abuja recently at the 2020 policy meeting on admissions to tertiary institutions in Nigeria by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board. Nwajiuba said all Institutions must have the whole premises of each institution must be decontaminated and all efforts must be geared toward maintenance of the highest level of hygiene, including ensuring social and physical distancing in class sizes and meeting spaces. The school authorities should therefore ensure that all the COVID-19 protocols are maintained and enforced in the partial reopening of school. How this period is handled would determine when the whole school system would become a reality. If it is mismanaged and the virus spikes within the period, it would be more difficult for the school system to return to normalcy. All the stakeholders must work together to ensure that the laxity in the enforcement of COVID-19 protocols in public places is not repeated when the schools reopen. That, in our view, would be very tragic. Let the government and school authorities and parents ensure that all protective measures are provided for the children. We cannot afford to fail our children by exposing them to danger without adequate protection.