Nigerian Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) of personal computers have decried patronage of locally assembled computers by ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of the federal government. The OEMs under the aegis of the Certified Computer Manufacturers of Nigeria (CCMON) said they were deeply concerned about the poor implementation of the government’s local content policies as it relates to the support of local content in all public procurement as contained in her Executive Order 3 and 5 respectively. The local content policy directs all MDAs of government to patronise made in Nigeria computers as a priority choice. Five Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) in Nigeria certified by Nigeria Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) under the auspices of CCMON in a virtual press conference. The CCMON president, Engr. Mrs. Adenike Abudu, stated that government was not effectively monitoring the implementation of her policy directives on local content in public procurement. Foreign brands of PCs are continuously and publicly been embraced to the detriment of local companies, she said, lamenting that the continued flagrant disregard of the presidential EO 3 and EO 5 in preference for foreign brands is stifling and killing local capacity and growth. This, she said, is a development that may, if not checked immediately, lead to the extinction of the local OEMs with the attendant loss of jobs and capital flight that will otherwise have been retained in the country for growth and development. Parts of the EO 3 states that “Made-in-Nigeria products shall be given preference in the procurement of the following items and at least 40 per cent of the procurement expenditure on these items in all MDAs of the FGN shall be locally manufactured goods or local service providers” and “Any document issued by any MDA of the FGN for the solicitation of offers, bids, proposals or quotations for the supply or provision of goods and services (Solicitation Document), in accordance with (1) above, shall expressly indicate the preference to be granted to domestic manufacturers, contractors and service providers and the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference.” Despite these clear directives, Engr. Abudu lamented that MDAs are even boldly specifying only foreign brands in their invitation for quotes without fear of any regulatory sanctions which though spelt out in the local content policy, are not been implemented by the relevant government agencies saddled with this responsibilities. Part of the objectives of CCMON, according to Engr. Abudu, included working with all relevant stakeholders to grow the capacity of Nigeria computer manufacturers so that they can continue generate increased employment, strengthening of the Naira and ensure the growth of our local economy. According to her, “We have pledged to work closely with the National Information and Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Office for Nigerian Content in Information Technology (ONC), the Ministry of Communications and the office of the Vice President that heads the nation’s economic team to ensure that the laudable objectives of the government policies on local content adoption in ICT is properly implemented to the benefit of the country. “CCMON members have the capacity to manufacture enough quality devices for all MDAs and projects as their recent performance on the N-Power batch A and B device beneficiaries attest to. “With the impact of the pandemic leading to large number of people working remotely, Nigerian OEMs in PC manufacturing are ready and have the capacity to meet the increased demand for computing devices. “Other countries are increasing local capacities and patronage to grow their economies and Nigeria may be left behind in the global competitiveness by over dependency on foreign computer hardware and software“. Abudu made a passionate plea to the government to work with CCMON and her members to ensure that her own policies are judiciously implemented to ensure the realization of the laudable objectives of both EO 3 and EO 5.