The reconciliatory moves of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker/national planning committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is beginning to yield fruitful results with the return of former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, to the party fold. Buni, the Yobe State governor, yesterday presented Dogara to President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, just as he briefed the president about the latest development in the party. Dogara had left the APC for the PDP in 2018 after a political rift with the former governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abubakar. The Buni-led caretaker committee took over affairs of the party in June after the APC National Executive Committee (NEC) was dissolved following a dispute over the leadership of the party. While the former Speaker declined to speak with State House correspondents, Governor Buni who said their visit to the president was to brief him on efforts to rebuild the party, confirmed that Dogara has become a member of the APC. Noting that there shouldn’t be any need for surprise over Dogara’s return, the APC leader said, “They shouldn’t be surprised because the former Speaker is a member of the APC and he is because the reason he left the APC is no more there. Yes, he’s back.” Describing the President’s reaction on Dogara’s defection, Buni noted: “He welcomed him. He’s happy with the development. That’s what he’s looking for. We are rebuilding the party and these are the steps we are taking towards rebuilding the party.” He assured that his team was prepared to ensure that all those who left the party are allowed to return, even as he further assured returnees of justice and equity. He continued: “We are meeting all our aggrieved members particularly who have interest in coming back to the party. They should feel free to do so. We are assuring them and there is no crime in double assurance. “We will do justice to all our members and that’s what will bring peace and that is what will guarantee peaceful coexistence. That is what will bring the consolidation of the party, the rebuilding of the party. Without doing justice, you cannot achieve that and we are sure of doing justice to all our members”. He however noted that desire to ensure that members who left return to party goes beyond the politics of 2023 polls, but to make the party outlive the current crop of leaders. He said, “Well, of course, not only 2023 strategy, this party, we are rebuilding the party to outlive all of us. It’s not only about specific time or period, it is not about election, and it is not about electioneering. It is about building a party.” Also speaking with LEADERSHIP Weekend, director-general of Press and Media Affairs to Governor Buni, Mamman Mohammed, said the party caretaker committee under the chairmanship of Buni will continue to woo more notable politicians who were aggrieved and left the party. He said, “Governor Buni is committed to true reconciliation and bringing more from other political parties into the APC. I invite you to just watch more unfolding events in the next six months. APC will not only recover but will be stronger with more notable figures of national politics. “The humility, transparency and truthfulness of Gov. Buni is endearing more estranged politicians into the party’s fold. At the end of his assignment as the chairman caretaker committee, APC will be much stronger and will celebrate its recovery with more fortunes”. It was gathered that with zoning of the presidential candidate ticket to the South specifically the South-west gaining traction, politicians from the North would be angling for the vice presidential slot. Meanwhile the PDP in Bauchi yesterday claimed that the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, is yet to inform the party of his defection. The PDP chairman in the state, Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam, said the party is still expecting a formal notification from Dogara if indeed he had defected. ‘’We have not received any letter of him leaving our party and when you see him with the President, it’s normal because he was a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, maybe there are some issues he wants to call his attention to, but when he makes his defection official to us, we shall comment on that. For now we are waiting to receive a letter from him’’, he said.  Presidency, APC Knock PDP Over Calls For PMB’s Resignation Meanwhile, the presidency and the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday slammed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over its call for the resignation of President Buhari. The PDP, through its national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, had asked President Buhari to throw in the towel over the state of affairs in the country. Secondus who addressed a press conference at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja further said the APC-led government was confused and had no direction. But hitting back at the opposition party, the presidency in a statement by the senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said President Buhari will not resign. Shehu noted that the opposition PDP cannot scare the government from probing the grave allegations made against MDAs and their chiefs because failure to do so will amount to a historic betrayal of public trust. Describing the PDP as suffering from undemocratic pandemic, he said the opposition party cannot subject Nigeria’s democracy to subterranean attacks and continue to pretend that they are well-meaning. The presidential spokesman said, “He (Buhari) is determined to continue the crusade against corruption, both legacy and recently unearthed cases, that are found to be shabbily handled, and in some cases unattended to by past administrations. The National Assembly, by virtue of its right to conduct its oversight function is currently carrying out own investigations. “Additionally, the security and intelligence agencies are equally doing their part and must be given the time and space to conclude their work and present their reports” Garba Shehu said in his statement. “At a time when the whole world is unifying to confront a common enemy, Nigeria’s opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has launched a whirlwind campaign promoting undemocratic values, the latest manifestation of which is the call for President Muhammadu Buhari’s resignation for allowing audits and investigation into several agencies of government, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. “Based on the statement issued by the embattled chairman of the Party, Prince Uche Secondus, it is clear that they would have liked the President to not investigate but to cover things up: to not wake the sleeping lion as voiced by another of their leaders. “In a democracy, an opposition party is as critical to the system as the ruling party but in the case of Nigeria, the leading party in opposition is afflicted by a life-threatening sickness, the undemocratic pandemic as a result of which they are trading away the nation’s democratic values. “The PDP government which exited the stage five years ago through a democratic election by voters dissatisfied with corruption on an industrial scale, policy paralysis, obsolete and decaying essential infrastructure appears to have forgotten the reason for their stunning defeat and seem hell-bent on the fooling the nation, yet again for another ride to power. Earlier, the APC described the statement by the PDP as “unintelligible rants”, adding that it is “not unconnected to the impending mass defections set to hit the failed opposition party.” In a statement by its deputy national publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena, the APC said, “The PDP calls for the resignation of the President. How silly! Nobody expects the PDP to provide ideas on good governance going by their inglorious past and antecedents. We only reiterate that the PDP stays quiet while the President Muhammadu Buhari administration clears the rot they foisted on the country. “Nigeria deserves a vibrant, purposeful and credible opposition not the laughing stock we have been subjected to in the name of the opposition PDP. It is well within the rights of PDP members to abandon a rudderless and sinking ship for the progressive fold. Going by the popular axiom: Why fly like a hen when you can soar like an Eagle? “We are particularly gladdened by the return of the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara to the APC.” Asking the president to resign, Secondus who had also lamented the series of probes and altercation by APC government officials said they were dramatic orchestrations designed to distract Nigerians from the magnitude of crisis affecting the country. The PDP chairman spoke against the backdrop of the spate of insecurity, the ongoing probes in the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He specifically wondered why the probe of suspended EFCC boss, Ibrahim Magu is being done in the presidential Villa instead of an open court, stressing that it amounts to a secretive hearing. Secondus said, “The state of our nation today requires that all hands must be on deck especially you media practitioners who should not relent in holding public officers accountable. “Nigerians should not be distracted by the drama playing out at the various fraud case hearings whether in Aso Villa with Ibrahim Magu or at the National Assembly with two Ministers Akpabio and Chris Ngige, entertaining Nigerians, they are designs to remove public attention to the real issue. “In this country under the watch of President Buhari and his APC, we have found ourselves in the environment as the French economist, Federico Bastiat  said that “when plunder becomes a way of life for a group of men in a society, over the course of time they create for themselves a legal system that authorizes it and a moral code that glorifies it” This regime has found a code for corruption and they now glorify it and make fun of it. “What we are witnessing in our country today is a total collapse of the nation, the country is on ventilator gasping for air, under such circumstance, President Buhari should do the honourable thing required of an elderstatesman in situations like this, THROW IN THE TOWEL because nigeria is on a free fall and save the country from ruins”. On the spate of insecurity, Secondus said nothing establishes the fact that there is no governance in the country more than the worsening state of insecurity. “Having exhausted their propaganda of winning the war on terrorism only in their press releases, as reality endowed on all, both the military and political leaders are now helpless and confused”, he added.