The Northern States Christian Elders Forum (NOSCEF) and Southern Kaduna Christian Leaders Association (SKCLA) has condemned in the strongest term the continued killings in Southern Kaduna, stressing that the justification of the attacks by the federal and state government will only embolden the attackers.
 In separate statements issued by the two groups and signed by chairman of NOSCEF, Engr. Ejoga Inalegwu and the chairman SKCL, Bishop Simon Peters Mutum they said it was rather unfortunate for government to give excuses for the recurring attacks and killings instead of providing solutions. Bishop Mutum said, “As Christians and Christian leaders, we are worried over the state of things – the state of our people and the nation at large.
 “Southern Kaduna area has suffered economic, political and social marginalisation from the period of the colonialists: pre-independence as well as post-independence eras. The fact of neglect, revealed in lack of physical development and is there on the ground, for anyone
 who cares to see. “A careful study shows that the factors of religion, land and ethnicity are the tools used in the past, and still being deployed, to the disadvantage of our people in Southern Kaduna. “To ensure the protection of these foot soldiers, the political structure of the state has long been hijacked and skewed against us. Political delineation of constituencies in areas with high Christian population always has a predetermined pattern.” On the part of the NOSCEF, the mindless killings and the destruction of properties in communities in the Southern part of Kaduna State has continued unabated for too long without the authorities doing enough to stop it. “In the last one-week alone, reports show that over 60 people were killed by rampaging Fulani herdsmen who invaded communities in Kauru, Zangon Kataf, Kajuru and Jemaa local governments in the Southern part of Kaduna and unleashed terror on the people.
 Thousands of people have been displaced and in various refugee camps. Sadly the response of both the Kaduna State and the federal
 governments to these attacks have been far from satisfactory, with the people in perpetual fear of fresh attacks. “The unbecoming justification of the attacks as reprisal by the federal and state agencies can only embolden the attackers to continue to unleash mayhem on the people. NOSCEF condemns these massacres and calls on the state and federal governments to heed the cries of the people,” the Christian body stressed.