Former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan has suggested reasons why the ongoing fight against terrorism in Nigeria and other parts of Africa have failed, saying the individual battle by various countries instead of a joint fight is making the terrorist groups wax stronger by the day. According to the former President, there is the need for African leaders to seriously consider the option of coming together as one body to confront insecurity and terrorism, rather than allowing different countries fight individually. Dr Jonathan, who was speaking, yesterday, during a webinar on post-COVID-19 reconstruction organised by the African chapter of the International Summit Council for Peace (ISCP-Africa), noted that: “Terrorists do not respect national boundaries as they move from one country to another.” “If we continue to approach it the way we presently do, with national troops fighting only to protect their territories, while terrorists move freely within the continent, we may not record the required progress.” He said further: “For the creation of continental and regional bodies that could confront these criminals in any part of the continent, there is a need for us to re-examine our strategy. We have been fighting individually without the required success; we cannot continue to do the same thing all the time and expect to get different results.” He also joined the Kenyan President, Kenyatta, to call for closer collaboration among African leaders, as a means to deepen Africa’s post-COVID-19 recovery efforts, and find answers to the continent’s growth and development challenges. Both leaders recognised the prominent role played by Africa Centre for Disease Control (CDC), the Africa COVID-19 Fund, and the Joint Africa Procurement Platform In COVID-19 Response, as demonstrations of  the continent’s potential to overcome its development challenges, going forward. In his earlier comment as chairman of the forum, Dr Jonathan stressed that African leaders must come together to collectively confront the challenges facing the continent, especially social, economic and governance issues. He said: “The COVID-19 pandemic places urgency of actions on African leaders to move from plans to implementations of the different developmental strategies. I am particularly optimistic that conversations such as this will chart a new course towards building a new world –  interdependent, peaceful and just nations of Africa. 