The President National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN), Amb. Sukubo Sara – Igbe Sukubo has charged the youths to work for the peace and unity of Nigeria. NYCN President stated this during the official handing over of the NYCN office at 1st Floor Block B, Federal Secretariat Phase 1, Room 106, Shehu Shagari Way, Maitama, Abuja. NYCN leadership crisis was resolved at its last Management meeting held at Rivers state capital, Port Harcourt, where other factional Presidents, Amb. Oladele John Nihi, Comrade Almustapha Asuku and Comrade Bello Bala Shagari unanimously agreed that Amb. Sukubo should lead the council as President. Amb. Sukubo who commended the former Presidents for all their sacrifice to ensure peace in the council, promised to use the office for the benefits of Nigeria youths at home and abroad. He said “Let me commend all the former NYCN Presidents for all their sacrifice. By God’s grace, all their sacrifice will not be in vain. We shall use this office to work tirelessly for the benefit of Nigeria youths. “We don’t have another country, Nigeria is our country, our home and our fatherland. Let us all come together and work for the interest of our country. Whether you are from south, north, west or east we are one nation created by God for a purpose. NYCN President added. He continued “Comrade Bala Bello Shagari is a good Nigerian that wants peace and unity of this country. I respect him forever. We the youth can change this country for good. So let us come together under the big umbrella of the youth council and work for peace, unity and development of Nigeria. “I want to thank you and the entire Nigeria youths for the trust they have bestowed on us. We will not let you down and we will not let the entire Nigeria youths down.” In his remark earlier, immediate past NYCN President, Comrade Bello Bala Shagari urged youths to support the NYCN leadership. Comrade Shagari explained that “when I was elected, President of NYCN, this office was handed over to me by the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. “We have spent about two years here, it has also been recognised as the official office of the Youth Council and from this office, we have had correspondence with the office of the President Federal Republic of Nigeria, Office of the Vice President, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) and all Security agencies, he added. He continued “So it is a well-known office to this government and the Nigeria youths. “And as a result of the reconciliation we had, with the permission and approval of the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sport, I hereby handover this office to the NYCN President, Sukubo Sara-Igbe Sukubo,” he said. Present at the event were former NYCN Presidents, Amb. Murtala Mohammed Garba (Gamji), 2019 African Action Congress (AAC) Rivers State governorship candidate, Biokpomabo Awara and other members of the NYCN among others.