Four Rotary Clubs under the Rotary International District 9141, has organised training programme on leadership and mentorship as well as on Covid-19 pandemic, for youths drawn from several Rotaract Clubs in Rivers State. The one-day training programme with the theme: “Leadership, Mentorship and the Millennials” was put together by the Rotary Club of Port Harcourt, the Rotary Club of Port Harcourt GRA, the Rotary Club of Port Harcourt Seaport and the Rotary Club of Port Harcourt New City. Speaking with newsmen after the event, which held at the Rotary Centre, Port Harcourt, the Assistant Governor, Zone 18 of Rotary International, District 9141, Mudiaga Iyomi, said the programme was aimed at impacting knowledge on Rotaractors. Iyomi said: “The truth of the matter is there is no specific thing hindering Rotaractors but we understand in Rotary that they can do better than what they are doing today. Also, we want to be proactive in Rotary. That is if there things they are not speaking up about, they have the opportunity to and platform like this; first to understand what they issues are and secondly to know that they can actually speak out. “Today, there were a lot of topics, especially on youth protection. They now know that I’d there are cases of harassment, if there cases of untoward behaviour towards them as youths, that they have a platform to report to right up to the district where we different committee chairs and they will get it addressed. With that, they will be comfortable in doing the work of Rotary, which they have been called to do.” Also speaking, one of the trainees and President of Rotaract Club of Rukpokwu, Lydia Jaja, said the programme afforded her the opportunity to learn how to interact with fellow Rotaractors and how to sustain their membership. Jaja said: “After the training, I am now 100 percent equipped to led a Rotract Club. Before now, I was having some issues when it comes to membership, but today, I have learnt how to interact with my members and to sustain them because one thing is getting members and another thing is making them to stay. Today, I learnt how to make people have passion for Rotaract Club.” Speaking to newsmen, a member of the Rotaract Club of Federal College of Education (Technical), Omoku, Rivers State, Victory Onyije, said she learnt the true meaning of leadership at the training programme. Onyije said: “There was no monetary stress as we experience in Rotaract Club. This one is just free; come and learn and equip yourself. I can to this training empty but I am going filled in the sense that I was made to understand so many things when it comes to leadership.”