The President of the National Council of Women Societies NCWS led by Mrs Gloria Laraba Shoda has called on the Federal Government and international community to recognise the developmental efforts of the General Overseer of the Omega Power Ministries OPM Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere especially as it has to do with the emancipation and empowerment of women in the country. Mrs Shoda made this call when members of the Civil Society network in Abuja paid her a courtesy visit in her office. Mrs Shoda said she has been hearing of what the renowned Apostle is doing but has not been inundated much as to his philanthropic efforts until the visit. She said the Council which has existed for over 60 years will not fail to identify with people who are promoting the goodness and well being of women all over the country. While commending OPM foundation on the two Specialist hospitals in Rivers and Abia states, she said it is imperative that other men of God also use tithes and offerings of it’s members to replicate what Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere is doing in their various churches also. ‘after watching the video of the woman that gave birth to a set of twins in the free Specialist hospital run by OPM foundation, I must stress that this man of God deserves to be accorded not only a national award but international award for his magnamity. We at the NCWS will not fail to push for such award to him. The Nigerian woman is one of the most deprived on Earth and whenever I see people coming to their aid the way this man is doing in Rivers and Abia states, I am compelled to urge the Federal Government and the international community to identify with what he is doing”. The President of the National Council of Women Societies NCWS also praised the OPM General Overseer for reversing his initial plans to relocate the hospital facility from where it was cited due to some community issues stressing that it would have been very difficult especially for the likes of the woman seen in the video that went viral and who later gave birth to a set of twins the next day. She assured her guests that the NCWS will not hesitate to work with the OPM foundation. ” We hope to come to Port Harcourt one of these days to see things for ourselves and not just rely on the videos we have been seeing’ she stated.