The Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU), has urged the federal government to handle the issue of COVID-19 special allowance for health workers with caution, to avoid another round of crisis in the sector. JOHESU president, Josiah Biobelemoye, who gave the advice during an interview with Journalists in Abuja, accused the Ministry of Health of making frantic efforts to distort the agreement earlier sign between the health professionals, unions and the federal government. According to him, the federal government and the health professionals in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) they signed, agreed that all categories of health workers in the federal government Teaching Hospitals and Federal Medical Centres will be paid 50% of their Consolidated Basic Salary as Special COVID-19 Hazard and Inducement Allowance. He said instead of using Paragraph 1(a) of the agreement, the Ministry of Health, has changed it and was using Paragraph 1(d), which according to him, was meant for a different purpose and intent. “The unions have gone into agreement, even though that was not our best option, but the ministry of health is turning it upside down. “Since hazard does not discriminate, therefore, the position of JOHESU is that hazard should be flat rate. Since it used to be N5000, they should just improve it and make it flat rate. Other allowances can vary but hazard allowance should be flat. This is because no causative agent will say this is a none professional, I will harm him less. Therefore, we wanted that the hazard allowance to be flat rate. “When we say health worker, we mean all those that have been employed by the health system via the health ministry, hospitals and other parastatals. Everybody they employed there is a health worker. We expected that the percentage should be uniform. If you cannot give high percentage to the lower grade levels, then make the percent uniform. That was the agreement we signed. “For people who are not in the health system, who are posted on secondment, for example, there are people who are posted from the main service pool to the ministry of health, those ones can be posted out again. It has been concluded that 10 per cent should go to such category of people because they were not earning hazard allowance before, but because of COVID-19, this provision has been made to cover them. “But for the health ministry to now deny the content of an agreement, paragraph 1(a) and use paragraph 1(d) which is meant for entirely a different intent and purpose is unfortunate. For the ministry to now countermand the validity of Section 1(a) is a deliberate way of causing crisis in the health sector. The health ministry, indeed, has not learnt any lesson as a result of the COVID-19,” he stated. While commending the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Health for his foresight and determination to ensure that the issues were resolved, the JOHESU President, called on the Ministry “that has misinterpreted that agreement to correct itself by reordering and ensure that the agreed percentage is implemented.” Responding to a question on the award given to him by the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Biobelemoye applauded the students for what he described as their love for Nigeria. “Well, the award came as a surprise to me. If I got information earlier, I may not have agreed to receive the award when our members are in distress. I wouldn’t have celebrated the award at this time, but nevertheless, this is the national body of the students. They have their eyes everywhere. They must have seen our effort,” he said. 