Chairman, Contact and Mobilization Committee and member, Steering
Committee, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) Rev. Olusegun
Peters has expressed shock over the revelations at the House of
Representatives Ad-hoc Committee investigating the activities of Niger
Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He said that the group was dazed over how billions of tax payers funds
were looted by public office holders resulting to the underdevelopment
of the area that produces the nation’s oil and 90 per cent of its
aggregate wealth. He said the revelation by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator
Godswill Akpabio that members of the National Assembly got 60 per cent
of bogus contracts awarded by NDDC that were not executed or grossly
inflated is a confirmation of CUPP’s earlier outcry of corruption in
NDDC. The statement reads in part, “The billions of naira siphoned in the
guise of Christmas gifts and COVID-19 palliatives to its officials
showed the extent public office holders would go to loot the national
till and deprive the masses dividends of democracy. “CUPP demands that the NDDC’s acting Managing Director, Professor
Kemebradikumo Pondei who collapsed while being grilled by legislators
must return to complete his presentation and clear grey areas on how
billions of naira belonging to the commission was squandered under his
watch. The directive by Speaker of House of Representatives, Femi
Gbajabiamila that Pondei would no longer appear before the committee
is ill conceived and diversionary particularly when members of the
National Assembly were said to have procured 60 per cent of the
contracts awarded by the commission. “CUPP demands a thorough forensic audit and unfettered public
investigation of the activities of the NDDC that resulted to the
underdevelopment of Niger Delta region. There should be no sacred cow
and no cover up of any culprit no matter how highly placed. Mr.
Speaker should not interfere in the committee’s public hearing. It
smacks of legislative recklessness and his lack of confidence in the
committee he setup. Nigerians are desirous to know how public funds
allotted to NDDC were spent despite unprecedented theatre of the
absurd emanating from the public hearing. “CUPP also calls for a forensic audit and public hearing on the
activities of the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster
Management and Social Development  and how it squandered billions of
naira on purported COVID-19 palliatives and social intervention
schemes including disbursement of N20,000.00 to poorest Nigerians and
feeding of school children at home during Coronavirus lockdown. It
will be an eye opener to unlimited corruption in government
Ministries, Agencies and Parastatals. Addressing this obvious
cankerworm is the first step in fighting corruption in the country. We
are all in it together.”