A mild drama ensued at the Ondo State House of Assembly yesterday as 14 out of 26 members of the House served impeachment notice on the deputy governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi, over allegations of gross misconduct.  The motion on the impeachment of the deputy governor was read during an emergency sitting of the House announced by the Clerk of the Assembly, Mr Bode Adeyelu.  Speaking at the plenary, the Speaker of the House, Bamidele David Oleyelogun, disclosed that he personally received the allegations against Agboola Ajayi.  Oleyelogun said the constitution empowers the Assembly to investigate all the allegations and proceed on impeachment of the deputy governor, if necessary.  The Speaker noted that the Assembly can only impeach the deputy governor if all the constitutional requirements were met.  He therefore ordered the House Clerk to immediately serve the embattled deputy governor a notice of impeachment signed by the 14 members of the Assembly.  However, the deputy Speaker of the Assembly, Iroju Ogundeji, as well as other eight lawmakers who later dissociate themselves from the impeachment notice were shouted down by the Speaker when attempting to contribute to the motion.  Oloyeloogun however put the motion to a voice vote after which the majority leader, Hon. Jamiu Maito, moved a motion for adjournment till Wednesday July 8 which was seconded by Hon Oluyede Fayide, representing Ose Constituency.  Immediately after the sitting, nine members of the House of Assembly including the deputy speaker, Hon. Iroju Ogundeji, dissociated themselves from the impeachment move against the deputy governor.  Other members of the Assembly who repudiated the impeachment move include: Hon. Favour Tomomowo, Hon. Rasheed Olalekan Elegbeleye, Hon. Festus Akingbaso, Hon. Adewale Williams Adewinle, Hon. Samuel Demola Edmisan, Hon. Tomide Akinribido and Hon. Success Torhukerijor.  The members, in a letter addressed to the clerk of the Assembly titled, “Dissociation from the impeachment plan of the Deputy Governor”, said, “We the underlisted elected members of the Ninth Assembly session of the Ondo State House of Assembly hereby append our signatures to clarify that we have resolved not to partake in the impeachment process of the Deputy Governor. “In view of the above, we hereby bring to the notice of Clerk, Mr Bode Adeyelu, the entire members of the House of Assembly and the general public that we do not support the impeachment process and we would not be associated with it based on personal conviction,” they said.  But chairman of the House Committee on Information, Hon Olugbenga Omole described the ranting from the protesting lawmakers as needless, stressing that the impeachment order is a process which does not require two third of members of the Assembly.  “In fact only 9 members of the 26 members are needed to sign the impeachment move,” Omole said.  He further explained that only few journalists were allowed into the Assembly chamber in keeping with COVID-19 guidelines.  All members of the Assembly were present except, Hon Favour Tomomewo, representing Ilaje Constituency 2, and the only female lawmaker in the Assembly.  The Assembly which comprises 26 members requires 18 members to successfully carry out the impeachment. Also, security at the Assembly premises was water-tight as there was presence police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Present at the plenary were special adviser to the governor on Political Matters, Hon.Victor Olabimtan, the state chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Engr. Ade Adetimehin among others.  Meanwhile, the deputy governor had on Monday approached the Federal High Court, Abuja for the enforcement of his fundamental human rights in a suit filed on his behalf by Dr I. Olatoke (SAN).  Ajayi is asking the Court to halt the impeachment proceedings and enforce his rights to freedom of association. PDP Keeps Mum As the political drama played out yesterday, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was yet to make its position known on the fate of Ajayi who joined the party two weeks ago.  The Zonal publicity secretary (South-west) of PDP, Mr Ayo Fadaka, had recently advised the deputy governor to resign his position since he could no longer work with his boss having defected from the APC.  However, according to a source in the national leadership of the APC, six APC lawmakers among the nine pro-Ajayi Assembly could be expelled from the party. Ondo Deputy Governor May Resign Meanwhile, a former commissioner in the state who pleaded anonymity has alleged that the deputy governor may resign his position in light of the moves to impeach him.  The former cabinet state member confided in LEADERSHIP that “We knew they were planning impeachment but all along, it was seen as a mere paper work that would not come to reality because the deputy governor gave us confidence.  “But he kept on assuring us that all was well and that majority members of the Assembly were his loyalists; but what we have seen baffles all of us. It means that there is a price on every politician.  “I can tell you that the man, I mean the deputy governor was in firm control until we suddenly saw the Notice that was signed by 14 members. But our greatest surprise is how the speaker allowed such an item on the Order Paper.  “From the look of things, some lawyer may have mixed up some aspects of the constitution by referring to two third for removal and one third for service of notice.  “It is now clear and the best option is to see if we can advise our prinicpal to resign and face his governorship campaign for the PDP primary election,” the former commissioner said.  Imo Lawmakers Begin Moves To Suspend Speaker  All is not well with the Imo State House of Assembly as 22 members have allegedly endorsed impeachment proceedings against Speaker of the House, Hon Chiji Collins.  The House was recently shut down for fumigation exercise following the infection of some lawmakers with COVID-19 about two weeks ago. The member representing Oguta State constituency, Frank Ugboma, who spoke with newsmen said the speaker had turned the parliamentary arm to an extension of the executive. He further disclosed that 22 lawmakers have endorsed an impeachment move against the speaker, adding that they are waiting for the House to reconvene to invoke the house rules to commence the process. Ugboma said the 22 members have already asked the speaker to resign honourably or face impeachment any moment. According to him, their constituents had inundated them with complaints of delayed salaries and pensions, adding that even lawmakers were owed. He said, “Our people who we represent, now see us as alleluia boys of the executive arm, just because our speaker, Hon. Chiji Collins tows to the bidding of the executive even on critical issues of governance. This is so much so, that he is now cowed to carry out oversight over executive misdeeds”. He said while lawmakers are yet to receive their salaries, the speaker, via the state owned newspaper, The Statesman, said they had been paid, an action Ugboma said pitched them against their people. Ugboma added: “At various times, I have been inundated with calls and messages from many of such owed government employees and retirees from my constituency. Many times I have assured them to no avail.” He maintained that some lawmakers were infected with Covid 19 because the speaker is not proactive saying “At a time like this, some of our members are battling with COVID-19 infection, simply because the leadership of our House headed by Hon. Chiji Collins was not proactive and alive to his responsibilities.  “It is a fact that before the House was shut, the speaker was not sensitive to the basic needs of the House, as common as providing individual members microphones for use at plenary”.   He said rather than engage the Governor and his team to pay salaries, the “speaker is only after the huge sums of money he covets monthly as votes and running cost”.   He dismissed insinuations that former Governor, Chief Emeka Ihedioha was behind the impeachment move saying it was falsehood sponsored by people seeking the attention of Governor Hope Uzodimma.   When contacted, spokesman to the speaker, Emeka Ahaneku dismissed the impeachment move as untrue, saying it is the handiwork of only six PDP lawmakers.   Ahaneku said “impeachment moves are covert, it just happens, nobody gives notice before impeachment so it doesn’t leak out. Some lawmakers involved in unparliamentary actions are the ones behind this hoax.   “The same people planning impeachment have turned around to accuse the speaker of suspension moves against them. Honourable Anyadike is alleging same simultaneously. I assure you that Mr speaker has the support of his colleagues not forgetting that APC has majority in the House,” he said. 