Samsung and MTN Nigeria have provided communication support to health workers across the country to stop the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Five hundred A2 Core phones from Samsung together with SIM cards and 2GB data monthly for six months from MTN will be given to case managers in the isolation centres across the 36 states of the country as well as the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The donation is expected to ease the process of data capturing and case reporting in these centers and supporting the government’s strategic plan in dealing with the pandemic. Samsung’s managing director, Caden Yu described the initiative as the company’s commitment to supporting the government in these times. ”Our thoughts are with every Nigerian and this donation is a way of using our resources to fight this pandemic. The survival of the human race is hinged on our collaborative effort and together, we will get through this,” he said. Speaking during the presentation ceremony at the ministry of health Abuja,Caden Yu, represented by Head, Human Resource/CSR, SAMSUNG, Mr Nkanor Winston and HOD, Mobile, SAMSUNG, Mr. Taiwo AdetunjI, said Samsung came to Supports Nigeria’s COVID-19 Fight because contrary to the prediction of Africa being the next epicenter of COVID19, Nigeria continues to make strides to control the disease. This is to be greatly commended.We say a big thank you to our health workers and government for keeping everyone safe. As a responsible and caring brand, Samsung is providing 500 Samsung Galaxy A2 Core smartphone to the government of Nigeria to enhance data capturing and case reporting at the isolation centers nationwide and general communication. Our partner, MTN Nigeria, will provide free Sim cards with 2GB data every month for 6 months for these devices. We are dedicating our resources to help, so we can see all emerge stronger together.” Also speaking, chief corporate services officer of MTN Nigeria, Tobechukwu Okigbo, said that to win the fight against the coronavirus, Nigeria’s corporates and individuals must continue to work with the government. “Everyone that calls Nigeria home must see this pandemic as an opportunity to unite in service to the country and for the greater good of us all. We are only good together. MTN will continue to look for ways to collaborate with other stakeholders to help the government flatten the curve.” Responding, the honorable minister of health, Dr.Osagie Ehanerie thanked Samsung and MTN and promise to dispatch the devices across the the country in the fight against COVID-19. It will be recalled that three months ago, MTN, as part of its Y’ello Hope package, donated over N500 million worth of airtime, data, and analytics, through the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) to support state governments in facilitating communications during travel restrictions and over N1.4 billion worth of airtime, data, and devices to connect medical personnel and health agencies.