Often times, meeting the right person in a romantic or business relationship could be an uphill task. In the new age of social media, connecting friends through cyber space have been greeted by some with mixed feelings, stemming from reports of uncanny experiences in the hands of fraudsters. While some have had it good, some leave telltales of broken hearts. Much as such experiences has become fun or nightmarish to some, there is still a need to get it right from the start. Consequently, several matchmaking consults or platforms have strived to achieve success but may not have done enough, especially connecting the genuine friendship that leads to marriage. That’s where the newest mobile dating application called “Hello Africa” comes to bear. “Hello Africa” is exclusively for Africans and Africans in diaspora. Built under a strong foundation based on experience, expertise and research, the founder and CEO, Nneka Egbujiobi, ESQ. (soon to be known as Nneka Ihim,ESQ. as she is now engaged) has stated that the idea was premised on need to have Africans in diaspora connect genuinely. “The dream started in 2018, one night, when I was sitting at home reading messages that were sent to me by people, but I wasn’t intrigued,” says Nneka. “I then thought it would be nice if there was a platform for the African community where we could select the type of people we would wished to date,” explains Nneka.
According to her, this led to critical thinking that spiralled the invention of an app that would help Africans in the diaspora to create beneficial connections. Nneka Egbujiobi is a Nigerian – US based lawyer. Born in Boston, Massachusetts, to Dr. Leo Egbujiobi, MD, a U.S based Interventional Cardiologist, and Bridget Egbujiobi, in the United States, she received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Michigan and then obtained her jurist doctorate degree from the University of Wisconsin Law School. She later became a licensed attorney and has been practicing law for several years in Pasadena, California where her firm handled multimillion dollar cases. Nneka who speaks more of her parental influence in her life said, “My biggest influencers are my parents. My mom showed me how to navigate life with strength and my dad taught me humility.” Armed with these golden virtues, especially in a foreign land where relationship is based on western values and tradition, Nneka began to think out of the box to create a unique app that is set to disrupt the normal. “I decided to create a platform where Africans like myself could log on and meet sophisticated and influential Africans.
The Hello Africa app not only helps men and women to find potential spouses but also promotes dialogue between like-minded Africans,” disclosed Nneka. She emphasised that the reward of seeing her vision come together is worth every minute of the uncertainty that she initially felt in a foreign field. “The Hello Africa app is now available for mobile download on Google Play (for Android phones) and on the App Store (for Apple phones). The best way to check out the app is to download it then test it out for yourself. With the development of today’s technology, you never know who you can meet – apps like Hello Africa, ensure international connections are possible,” concludes Nneka.