The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), has said that it is not attempting to regulate the medical sector, as its mandate about consumer protection was unambiguous and well defined. On 3rd July, 2020, FCCPC arraigned Dr. Adepoju and her plastic surgery clinic, Med Contour Services Ltd, at the Federal High Court in Lagos over alleged evasion from investigation into a failed plastic surgery. The arraignment followed the refusal of Dr. Adepoju to honour a summons to attend the Commission’s investigation and present relevant documents to defend herself. Specifically, Vivian Onwuzuligbo, a family member of Nnneka Onwuzuligbo (a deceased client of Dr. Adepoju) reportedly made allegations to the effect that her sister died as a result of a failed cosmetic surgery carried out by the medical doctor. Other accusations in that respect litter the media space in the country. Another recent intervention by the FCCPC was a public inquiry it held in March 2020, as part of investigation into possible violation of patient/consumer rights, similarly, following the death of one Moradeun Balogun on December 2, 2019, after she was allegedly refused treatment by a hospital due to lack of a police report. The Commission opened an investigation to determine the circumstances of her death, and whether it was a possible violation of her consumer/patient rights bill under the FCCPA. During the public hearing, the Lagos State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, held that, there could be no justification for the rejection of accident victims by hospitals. He said, “It is inconceivable that some hospitals and health care practitioners still deny victims of accidents timely medical attention and care. The right to health is entrenched in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as well as in the National Health Act of 2014 and the Patients’ Bill of Rights. Section 20, subsection one of the National Health Act prohibits health care providers, workers and establishments from refusing a person medical treatment for any reason and further prescribes punishment where such a provision is violated. In light of the above, FCCPC issued a statement that: “the commission must be allowed to function without any form of underlying hindrances. Thankfully, the current leadership of the Commission has been proactive and diligent in ensuring that its mandate is achieved.” Unfortunately, the vigour Mr. Irukera has brought to bear on the job of the Commission goes with a price. His recent prosecution of Dr. Adepoju and Med Contour drew the ire of the medical doctor’s cheerleaders, who threw all sorts of vitriols at the man. They made frantic efforts to whip up sentiment and make Nigerians believe that the medical doctor was being persecuted by an agency that allegedly has no powers to deal with issues bordering on the safety and welfare of her clients, who indeed are consumers of her body enhancement services. But insisting that its investigation of Dr. Adepoju and Med Contour was about consumer protection and not an attempt to regulate the medical profession, the agency stated that its mandate like: “many laws guiding the Federal Republic of Nigeria, despite the country’s complex demographic composition, are unambiguous.” The FCCPC has also arraigned four supermarkets and pharmacies in Abuja and Lagos in June 2020 over allegations of price gouging, the companies were accused of hiking unfairly the prices of personal hygiene products during the Coronavirus pandemic, thereby taking undue advantage of desperate and vulnerable consumers. Nigerian consumers have reportedly celebrated the FCCPC’s current leadership of Barr Babatunde Irukera, for ensuring that consumer rights are respected in the country. The Commission’s chief executive officer, has been highly lauded for personally leading company and market inspection teams and donning his wig and gown to prosecute cases in Court for the organisation. Thankfully, the Commission does not appear distracted, and its leadership has exhibited professional competence in its capability to handle the Dr. Adepoju and Med Contour issue with utmost in a manner that prioritises public interest. Now that the matter is before a court of competent jurisdiction, it is expected that Dr. Adepoju would harness her facts and evidence and proceed to defend herself and her clinic, instead of the futile media assault against the FCCPC. She should have no problem with going to clear her name of any wrongdoing in Court. Seeking public sympathy in a matter of grave consumer dissatisfaction with the services she renders should never be. The recent activities of the FCCPC show clearly that consumer protection is beginning to take root in Nigeria. Businesses need to understand the workings of the Commission, live up to their obligations under its enabling law and respect the rights of consumers. Consumers on their part must acquaint themselves with the provisions of the FCCPA and take advantage of same in asserting their rights in the market place