The nine lawmakers loyal to the embattled Deputy Governor of Ondo state, Hon. Agboola Ajayi, have written to the Chief Judge of the state, Justice Oluwatoyin Akeredolu, dissociating themselves from the ongoing plans in the Assembly to impeach him. The lawmakers are Rt.Hon. Iroju Ogundeji (Deputy Speaker), Hon. Jamiu Sulaiman Maito, Hon. Rasheed Olalekan Elegbeleye, Hon. Tomide Leonard Akinribido and Hon. Samuel Edamisan Ademola. Others are Hon. Favour Semilore Tomomewo, Hon. Festus Akingbaso, Hon. Adewale Williams Adewinle and Hon (Barr.) Torhukerhijo Success. The nine lawmakers in the open letter, said they are notifying the Chief Judge based on the plans by the leadership of the House to suspend some of them in order to carry out the illegal act. The lawmakers noted that they are not in support of the impeachment of Agboola Ajayi based on their individual personal conviction. They said, “Kindly be informed that nine under listed elected Honourable members of Ondo state House of Assembly have duly dissociated ourselves from the ongoing impeachment process of the Deputy Governor of Ondo state, H.E. ( Hon.) Agboola Alfred Ajayi in a letter dated 7th July, 2020 to the Clerk and the Clerk and the Rt. Hon. Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly , here with attached. “We want to state and confirm to your good office that we maintain our stand by dissociating ourselves from the impeachment process. “We are rest assured that your Lordship will uphold Section 188 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) particularly Section 188 (3) (4) (5) – (11). “It is equally worthy of note that the total membership of Ondo State House of Assembly is 26 in which 2/3 is 18 and this remains the constitutionally required number  irrespective of any arbitrary suspension. “ We are writing to call your attention to the fact that all or some of us who are signatories to this letter may be suspended in order to circumvent  the provision of the constitution of Nigeria, which we all swore to uphold  and protect, including your honourable Lordship , as this will be contrary  to the laws of the land”.