The protocols and guidelines issued by the Presidential Taskforce Committee on COVID-19 forced wedding fatiha of the son of the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN) to be held with highly restricted number of people yesterday. In a statement released by Dr Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, the Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Malami, however, thanked friends, well-wishers and the general public for their prayers and goodwill for the wedding fatiha of his son which took place yesterday in Kano. The AGF also expressed appreciation for the understanding that due to COVID-19 pandemic, the wedding fatiha was low keyed. Earlier, the Minister had communicated in writing notifying friends and colleagues that due to the current COVID-19 pandemic that guidelines and protocols by Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 he only solicited for their prayers and goodwill. The AGF however, dissociated himself from any form of gathering said to be part of the wedding ceremony, saying any other activity before or after the wedding fatiha has nothing to do with the marriage and his family therefore disassociate itself from it in its entirety. In another statement released by Gwandu, Malami refuted media report that he purchased a building at N300 million in Abuja for his son, adding that not even a rented house was secured for him in Abuja, because he has no plan to live in Abuja. This is just as he described the allegation that he hired of private jets to convey people for his son’s marriage as absurd. According to Gwandu, ‘’it is common knowledge that the AGF had neither a father nor mother anywhere in Nigeria to be conveyed to Kano for the wedding. Who, then the Attorney-General is using the chartered flight to convey?  Which jets are chartered?  Who paid for the charter? Through which means was the money paid? While denying allegation of house purchase, Malami said, “It is regrettable that the information communication technology tools have been hijacked by disgruntled elements in spreading fake news and blatant lies. “The report by the media is a clear violation of ethical journalism practices on verification of facts and authentication of claims. It evinces lack of professionalism and exposes rash and reckless presentation of figment of imaginations shrouded with bigotry and bundled with sentiments of unscrupulous questions. “For instance, who is the vendor of the purported house bought for the son of the Minister in Abuja at N300m? Where is the so-called mansion located in Abuja? Where are the title documents? “While refuting the claim, Malami said “God knows that I did not purchase any house for him in Abuja. Not even a rented house was secured for my son in Abuja, because he has no plan to live in Abuja”.