The Paediatric Association of Nigeria (PAN), has kicked against the plan by the Federal Government to reopen schools in the country in September 2020, despite the ravaging effects of Covid-19. It suggested that the minimum criterion for considering the reopening of schools in Nigeria should be a steady and consistent decline in the spread of the pandemic in most parts of the country. PAN, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt yesterday, expressed surprise at the absence of public health physicians, infectious disease experts and other child and adolescent healthcare specialists amongst the stakeholders listed as having been consulted in arriving at the decision to possibly reopen schools in September, 2020. The statement, which was signed by Professor Edward Alikor and Dr. Petronila Tabansi, President and Secretary, respectively, said the safest place for children at this time is at home under the care of their parents. It reads in part: “Paediatric Association of Nigeria (PAN) has followed with concern the current debate in the public space on the advisability or otherwise of reopening schools in Nigeria at this time of Covid-19 pandemic, especially the Basic and Secondary schools. “PAN notes the announcement on 2nd July of the planned opening of schools in August, 2020 and the reversal of this decision by the Honorable Minister of Education on 9th July, 2020. This was quickly followed by the recent release of the “Guidelines for Schools and Learning Facilities Reopening after Covid-19 Pandemic Closures” published by the Federal Ministry of Education on 13th July 2020. “PAN supports the continued closure of Nigerian schools and urge that the schools should remain closed until conditions are safe. The minimum criterion for considering the reopening of schools in Nigeria should be a steady and consistent decline in the spread of Covid-19 in most parts of the country. It is then and only then, we believe, that the other criteria as laid down by the Guidelines for Schools and Learning Facilities Reopening after Covid-19 Pandemic Closures can now be considered. “PAN observes, with surprise, the absence of public health physicians, infectious disease experts and other child and adolescent healthcare specialists amongst the stakeholders listed as having been consulted in arriving at the decision to possibly reopen schools in September, 2020. “We urge that this error be corrected to enable the decision-makers arrive at a fact-oriented, balanced and independent decision on such an important issue bordering on the health of our children.
It is our considered opinion that, to a large extent, the safest place for children at this time is at home under the care of their parents. “Many parents now have to undertake the extra duty of controlling, protecting and (in some cases) supervising the academic work of the children, duties which have traditionally been shared with teachers and school administrators.”