Akwa Ibom State government has issued a seven-day ultimatum to oil
giant, ExxonMobil to comply with
stipulated COVID-19 guidelines or
risk having all its quarantine centres
in the state shut down. The Chairman of the Akwa Ibom
State COVID-19 Management
Committee and Secretary to the State
Government, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem,
issued the threat yesterday while
speaking with Government House
Press Corp in Uyo. According to the Chairman, it has
been observed that ExxonMobil, in
operating its quarantine centres, has
not followed the AKSG/NCDC/WHO
laid down protocols for effective
and efficient running of quarantine
centres. The breaches observed in
ExxonMobil quarantine Centres,
in the estimation of the COVID-19
Management Committee are capable
of endangering the lives of not just
the staff of ExxonMobil, but also the
lives of the generality of Akwa Ibom
people. Dr Ekuwem maintained that
Akwa Ibom State Government
cannot overlook the breaches by
the corporate organization, as it
could jeopardize the sustained and
deliberate efforts of the Governor
Udom Emmanuel-led administration
to curtail the ravaging COVID-19
pandemic to the barest minimum.
The committee therefore believed
that it was imperative for ExxonMobil
to make professional adjustments,
take appropriate precautions and
liaise with the State Government
where necessary for the efficient
running of its quarantine centres in
Akwa Ibom. It would be recalled that during
the lock down occasioned by the
COVID-19 pandemic, the corporate
social responsibility of ExxonMobil
was called to question when it
donated two ambulances, 20 hospital
beds and 10 very old used vehicles
from its fleet to the state for use in
contact tracing. The state government
after evaluating the donated items,
rejected the 10 vehicles and called
on ExxonMobil to demonstrate good
corporate citizenship by replacing
them. As at the time of writing
this report, the oil giant was yet to
retrieve the used vehicles, neither has
it brought new ones to replace them.
The donated ambulances were also
discovered to be converted buses and
the beds fall below the standards in
the secondary healthcare facilities in
Akwa Ibom State. L
The recalcitrant attitude of ExxonMobil also recently led to its premises being shut down by the Akwa Ibom State Internal Revenue Service over repeated default in its tax obligations to the state government