****Marks July 17, 2020- No Corruption Day The Non-governmental Anti-corruption agency, under the aegis of Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, SERAP, has declared July 17, 2020, a NoCorruptionDay stating that the movement was geared to tackle the existence of corruption and to eliminate the sharp practices that governs the country’s social, political and bureaucratic space. The move, however, was apt to hold government accountable with the obligation and commitments to interpret national laws in the areas of anti-corruption, economic and social rights. According to SERAP, dedicated citizens and celebrities would join the movement On the 17th July 2020, tagged #NoCorruptionDay. We are joined by dedicated citizens; with the likes of MI Abaga, Alex Ekubo, Osas Igodaro, Lillian Esoro, Jeff Bankz & others – who are willing to use their platforms to share this powerful message and also supported by agencies. SERAP added that activities centered around #NoCorruptionDay was geared towards tackling corruption through mindset reorientation. In 2019, SERAP undertook a survey to assess & highlight key behavioural and belief patterns about corruption across Nigeria. However, the survey birthed the Anti-Corruption Social Norms Report. The report revealed that 40% of respondents do not believe in the possibility of successfully ending corruption in Nigeria while 43.3 % do not believe they have a role to play in the change lend credence to the idea that corruption has become a Nigerian norm. The report further explained that 71% of research respondents were found to depend on the internet and Social media to reset social norms and get information so naturally, these media became the avenues to prioritize to help policy makers and Anti-corruption agencies effectively reach Nigerians. It further stated that Marking #NOCORRUPTIONDAY on the 17th of July would be the final lap of a sensitization journey. The journey that will begin about 10 days before will involve a quiz that highlights the role individuals play in perpetuating corruption, a tick-off list of corrupt practices we may unconsciously engage in daily & a breakdown of relevant aspects of the report that could reshape the thinking of the average Nigerian. The anti-corruption group noted that the 24-hour #NoCorruptionDay challenge would encourage people to commit to avoiding at least five (5) corrupt things they normally do and as such attempt to alter the corruption narrative across board.