The attorney-general of the Federation and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN) has written and served to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) against Omoyele Sowore/Sahara Reporters for alleged libellous publications. A statement from the office of the AGF signed by his special assistant on media and public relations, Dr. Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, said lawyers of Malami, S. I Ameh (SAN) wrote to the Inspector General of Police. The statement read in part: ‘’On July 10, 11 and 12, 2020, Mr Sowore/Sahara Reporters, in what appears like a coordinated attack, viciously inter alia wrote and maliciously published. ‘’In sum, the libellous publications contained direct allegations and innuendos … notwithstanding that the stories were untrue and false; Mr Sowore/Sahara Reporters published the defamatory articles in issue mala fide with intention to ridicule our client before the whole world. “The Inspector General may also note that, as it is their custom, Sowore/Sahara Reporters are in the habit of publishing libellous articles against innocent Nigerians- most of which has turned out to be false, and had published similar libellous article against our client in the past which led to the institution of a defamation suit against…. Sample fake publications earlier published by Sowore/Sahara Reporters which can be assessed at saharareporters.com are attached herewith as Annexure for ease of reference. ‘’Sir, in the premise of the foregoing and given that the publication of malicious libel and criminal defamation published against our client by Mr Sowore/Sahara Reporters was with a view to disparage him in the eyes of right thinking persons, Contrary to Nigerian Criminal and Penal Laws and a gross violation of our client’s Right to Dignity of Human Person as guaranteed under the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria  (as amended),  we hereby humbly appeal that you use your good offices to investigate the criminal acts perpetrated by Mr Sowore/Sahara Reporters as implicated in this petition so that the Law can take its course against anyone found culpable. Our client deserves justice!” Malami, however, issued a seven-day ultimatum to Sowore to retract all the alleged libellous and criminally defamatory publications, and issue a public apology to be published on his platform and on the front page of three newspapers with nationwide circulation for three consecutive days failing which he shall be left with no other option than to allow the law to take its course against his organisation.