Allah made it experience the garb of dearth and fear because of what they used to do. (an-Nahl 112) Allah has encompassed His servants with myriad, countless bounties, and if ye would count the favour of Allah ye cannot reckon it. (an-Nahl: 18) One of the greatest favours of Allah on us is the Ni’mah of Imaan.  Many (people) may not realise that Imaan is a derivative of Amn (security); or in another sense, belief is part and parcel of security. Aside from that, one of Allah’s attributes is al-Mu’min – the source of peace and security. He guarantees the safety of His bondsmen, securing them from fear in the world and chastisement in the hereafter. Allah Almighty designates His servants as Mu’mineen but the apparent likeness in the appellations merits no basis for comparison between the Designator and the designee. (Also), Allah Almighty repeatedly reminds us of (security) and makes it a great favour on us:  O ye who believe! Remember Allah’s favour unto you, how a people were minded to stretch out their hands against you but He withheld their hands from you; and keep your duty to Allah. In Allah let believers put their trust. (al-Maa’idah: 11) He also said:  So let them worship the Lord of this House, Who hath fed them against hunger and hath made them safe from fear. (Quraish: 3-4) No one measures the essence of security with the right measure except those that fall into insecurity. The stout of heart (Ulul Azm) among the messengers (of Allah) have always asked Allah the provision of security. When Ibrahim finished the construction of the House in Makkah he turned to Allah and prayed: My Lord! Make this a region of security and bestow upon its people fruits, such of them as believe in Allah and the Last Day, … (al-Baqarah:126) He mentioned security first before sustenance because in a state of insecurity sustenance loses its taste and man is unable to work for his daily bread. But in a state of security man feels tranquil and able to perceive the taste of food and drink. And thus Allah answered the prayer of His Khaleel (friend) and, as a favour upon the people of this purified spot, grant beauty of life and security to the territories, regarding which Allah said: So let them worship the Lord of this House, Who hath fed them against hunger and hath made them safe from fear. (Quraish: 3-4) The importance of this Ni’mah (security) is depicted in a Hadeeth reported by at-Tirmidhi and others, that at the sight of a new moon the Messenger of Allah, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam used to supplicate: O Allah, let this moon appear on us with security and Imaan; with safety and Islam and in line with what You love and are pleased with. (O moon), our Rabb (Lord) and yours is one.” The mention of security appears numberlessly in the Glorious Qur’an and the Noble Prophet’s Sunnah to draw attention to (the need for ) peace and psychological reassurance. This security embodies life itself, the establishment of discipline and guarding same against anyone that attempts to corrupt it. Verity, the Kitaab and Sunnah encourage the doing of any act that engenders security to the Muslims, nay, to the entirely of Allah’s creatures including trees and hills! What is plainer in this regard than his words, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam in what Ibn Mas’ud, Radiyallaahu Anhu, reported? He said: ‘We were in the company of Allah’s Messenger, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam during a journey when he drew apart to relieve himself.  In his absence, we saw a red bird which had two young ones with it. We caught them and the red mother bird came beating the earth with its wings. In the meantime, the Prophet, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam returned and said, “Who has put this bird to distress on account of its young? Return them to her.” He, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam also noticed a mound of ants which we had burnt up. He asked, “Who set fire to this?” We replied: “We have done so.” He, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam said, “None can chastise with fire except the Rabb of the fire.” The Messenger of Allah, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam warns against and prohibits the commission of any act that threatens the peace and security of any person. In the Hadeeth: “The Mu’min is he from whom people’s lives and wealth are safe.” And in another (Hadeeth): The Muslim is he from whose tongue and hand other Muslims, (in Muslim’s version of the Hadeeth), the people are safe.” It is also reported: “By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe!” It was said, “Who is that, O Allah’s Apostle?” He said, “That person whose neighbour does not feel safe from his evil.” Indeed, we have to broaden the scope of our understanding to appreciate the deeper meaning of neighbour in the above noble prophetic text. Security legislation in Islam is not confined exclusively to protecting the Muslims; it extends to the non-Muslims in that it proscribes killing them or any form of transgression against their wealth or honour; it threatens whoever distresses (non-Muslims) with grievous chastisement. Verily, Islam legislates the Hudud (punishment) and retribution to serve as a dire warning and a deterrent against crimes that afflict members of the society in their person, honour or property. Where there is security, hearts are filled with tranquillity,  calm reigns and felicity pervades (the place). He, Sallallaahu Alaihi wa Sallam said: “If anyone of you reaches the morning with his family and dwelling safe, with his health intact, and possessing his provision for that day, it is as though everything in the world was gathered and given to him.” (Reported by at-Tirmidhi) Dear beloved! If security is disrupted, the situation changes whereby innocents are murdered, women are widowed, children are orphaned, ignorance goes viral, wrongdoing spreads and fear descends: so Allah made it experience the garb of dearth and fear because of what they used to do. (an-Nahl 112)  THE SECOND KHUTBAH One of the ways of ensuring security is by recognising the essence of our security forces who spare no effort in guarding our country. We have to laud the sacrifices they are making in giving battle to the enemy in the trenches; they sacrifice their comfort so we may be comfortable; they sacrifice their security so we may be secure; they even pay the ultimate price by dying in the frontlines so we may live. They deserve our encouragement and prayers. If lapses are noticed in their modus operandi there are better ways of reaching those in authority for advice and good counsel, not the improprieties we hear from the Mimbar or the social media. Solutions to security problems must be proffered with tact and secrecy. Finally, we have to also search ourselves, it may be that our handiworks plunge us into our current situation so we revert and make amends: Allah coineth a similitude: a township that dwelt secure and well content, its provision coming to it in abundance from every side, but it disbelieved in Allah’s favours, so Allah made it experience the garb of dearth and fear because of what they used to do. (an-Nahl 112)  Praise be to Allah!  