The Group Managing Director/CEO shelter Afrique, Andrew Chimponda has reiterated the commitment of the group, in tackling the housing shortage in Africa, he revealed this in the ongoing Digital Abuja International Housing Show. Chimponda noted the alarming rate of housing shortage in Africa, particularly Nigeria, while acknowledging the housing crisis on the continent. “In Africa as a continent you will only find one country where the shortage is above say 4 million in terms of housing deficit and that is Nigeria we are not here to debate data, whether it is 17 million 18 million, 19 million or 22 million, we are here to recognize the problem, housing is a problem we at shelter Afrique take this is a crisis”. ” If you look below the chart, the other countries in Africa are those with shortages of 3 million, the Democratic Republic of Congo, of course the other one would be Tanzania and the other ones are in various degrees.” According to him, the group is the only Pan-African institution, targeted towards reducing the housing shortage on the continent, and its committed to tackle the housing challenge in Africa, he said,
“The development of sustainable and affordable housing is not negotiable, it is paramount. This is the only unique Pan-African institution that’s out towards reducing shortage” The Shelter Afrique boss, lauded the involvement of several African member states in the group, hence the commitment of the group in ensuring they strive to meet the housing needs of Africa, just as he  emphasized that West Africa, which Nigeria is a part of, constitute a bulk of its members. While aptly explaining their focus in Nigeria particularly. “We have  44 countries in Africa who  form Shelter Afrique, they are making up the Class A shareholders and of course Africa Development Bank came in to make up the class B shareholders and we are out in the market to introduce global financial institutions and to take up what we call class C shareholders what does this mean?  it means that shelter Afrique is 78% owned by Africa” “Why is Nigeria so important?  you find out that of all the member states of shelter Afrique, Central Africa has 8 members, North Africa 3 members west Africa where Nigeria is a part of has 16 members the largest membership you can have which makes up 36% of the total membership in terms of numbers, that is why we  at Shelter Afrique have to spend a lot of time in making sure  we support all the various harps of Africa, central Africa north, South Africa, West Africa in particular Nigeria” He stated the need for more funding, to cater for the increasing housing shortage in Africa, while noting that the group is open to partnership and other strategies to actualize the delivery of affordable houses to Africa. He said, “What is the strategy for Africa we have limited fund. To solve 56million housing shortage you need 3 trillion. For Nigeria, you need at least 500 billion Dollars, so we need to walk in partnership, we need to use our money to catalyze funding into affordable housing”.
‘What does this mean for Nigeria, it means that developers can get funding locally from local banks if what they are lacking is maybe equity, 10 or 20 percent to make it work, you go to our business developers and we will make it work”. This he added as he explained the efforts of the group in supporting developers on the continent. 