A retired Deputy Comptroller, Nigeria Immigration Service NIS, DCI Ime Unaowo Nta  has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for sustaining the tempo of anti-graft war which according to him wasn’t a battle for the cynics but for individuals who have the future of the nation at heart. Nta dropped the charge in Calabar while fielding questions from journalists shortly after being named among the 2019/2020 seventeen developmental thinkers  by the Institute of Human and Natural Resources during the institute’s  innovative leadership lectures where he also presented a paper. He identified corruption as one of the vices responsible for the various economic woes faced by the nation stressing that it is only men of proven integrity  who can have the will power  destroy the cankerworm of corruption. Speaking on the topic “Corruption in Nigeria’s Public Service: Who is to be blame, the retired Deputy Controller of Immigration stressed that  for the war against corruption to be won, all hands must be on deck. “Mr. President cannot win the corruption war in isolation but with the effort of all that makes up the country called Nigeria. “Let me remind you that the victory of PMB was hinged on the promise  that he was going to tackle corruption, insecurity to revamp  the Nigeria’s economy which was heading towards recession”. He maintained. The DCI who is  rated as  best passport control officer (PCO)  for the year 2019/2020,  lauded President Muhammadu Buhari in his sustenance of anti-graft war which he  initiated upon assumption of office, stressing that  corruption war isn’t for the ‘faint hearted nor  cynics’  but for men and women who have the interest of the nation at heart. The former  Special Assistant to the Minister of Interior (Immigration Matters) urged Nigerians to emulate the characters of President Muhammadu Buhari whom despite  distraction  from critics, PMB is yet to be found wanting  with regards to looting the treasure of the country. The  retired DCI challenged Nigerians in both the civil/ public service to emulate  the virtues of PMB  maintained an undefiled record while in  public service  when he served the nation as Head of State to the extent that even his worse critics have never question his integrity and high moral proclivity. The onetime Special Assistant to Minister of Aviation(Security matters)  charged the federal Government to put a machinery  in place that will give protection to civil servants who try to give information to the anti-graft agency from victimization from Senior officers. In his earlier remarks, Zonal Coordinator of the Institute, South South Zone, Dr. Osondu Hills urged the awardees who he said  have now become fellows of the institute to see themselves as worthy ambassadors of the institute and urged them not to be involved in acts that would be inimical to development of the nation. 