Passport Legacy, a leading Citizenship-by-Investment and Residence-by-Investment advisory firm, with its global headquarters in Dubai, U.A.E, has announced the opening of a new office in Nigeria, strengthening the company’s partnership with clients and families in Africa. This expansion positions Passport Legacy as the only Citizenship-and-Residence-by-Investment firm with a strong presence in Africa. Passport Legacy’s global operational network spans across the Middle East and Southeast Asia. Its recent expansion to Africa is part of the company’s commitment to bring excellence in services closer to its clients in Africa. “The decision to expand into Africa and open a second office in Nigeria was a logical step in our business growth strategy,” said Jeffrey Henseler, Managing Partner, Passport Legacy. “Some of our most important clients are in Africa and Nigeria is one of the most sophisticated emerging markets in Africa. It only makes sense that we reduce the hassle of access to our services by meeting clients where they live to service them most effectively.” As the fastest growing citizenship and alternative residence company in the industry, Passport Legacy offers one of the most affordable solutions to getting second citizenship, acquiring residency, or buying real estate in Europe and the Caribbean. Passport Legacy’s mission is to become the premier partner to Nigerians looking to acquire a second passport to do business globally, engage in international travel with fewer restrictions, or buy real estate abroad for sustained upward mobility. With attractive professional fee structures, Passport Legacy continues to lead with the most competitive industry rates globally. “Thanks to our presence in Dubai, Passport Legacy can establish even closer ties with our clients in the Gulf and this way we are better positioned to introduce our offerings to entities throughout the region,” said Zaid Al Hindi, Partner, at Passport Legacy. “Opening an office in Nigeria will strengthen our service capabilities in the region and position us for success in Africa”, said Benjamin Eisenring, Manager, Passport Legacy.” We are seeing exponential demand in this region for second citizenship especially due to the continued growth and rising purchasing power of Nigerians.”