Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun on Wednesday disclosed that his administration is working towards redesigning and reconstructing the Akute – Alagbole road and other road projects abandoned by the administration of his predecessor Senator Ibikunle Amosun in the state. The governor, who made the disclosure during inspection of the ongoing construction of 14km Ijebu-Ode-Epe road, said redesigning and reconstruction of the Amosun’s abandoned projects, which has in recent time generated media attention, became expedient because of the huge contract sum which the road attracted. Abiodun explained that the Akute – Alagbole road, abandoned by his predecessor, Amosun would require the sum of N70 billion to complete. Hinting that the State Executive Committee (SEC) was already re-evaluating all the abandoned roads across the state, Abiodun said his administration was looking at ways and means towards ensuring that fixing the Akuta – Agbole twin road is done within the state’s budget. “Of course, we can’t afford to spend N70 Billion on those two roads. So, there is a lot of redesigning going on for those roads. We understand the importance of those roads. That road particularly in Ifo II Local Government (state constituency) is a very densely populated area which is a border area between us and Lagos State. A lot of our people live there and work in Lagos, they pay taxes to us in Ogun State, the condition of those roads are beyond deplorable. “But all I can ask is that you have to be patient with us. We didn’t create this problem. It would be inconsiderate for anyone to expect Dapo Abiodun to have fixed that road in less than 12 months. You know I got into office, yet to have settled down, I am yet to take stock of what I met, I am yet to put things in place. But I understand that because of the season, it is causing more pain than usual”. Accompanied by the state Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Ade Akinsanya to inspect the ongoing reconstruction of Ijebu Ode -Epe road, Abiodun said his administration should not be blamed for the deplorable condition of some roads across the state. He explained that the state government was doing its best to prioritise the abandoned projects inherited from the immediate past administration of Senator Ibikunle Amosun, adding that contractors have already been mobilised back to some project sites. “But I have since directed the Ministry of Works to look at what we can do on that road as palliative to ensure that our people do not suffer unduly. I want to use this opportunity to say that I share the pain of our people that live in that corridor, but they should be rest assured that we are on top of that situation in terms of redesigning that road and prioritising it. “They will soon begin to see active work on that road, and it would not be something we are doing for photo-ops or something that we are going to start and abandon. When we start on that road, having re-dimensioned, re-evaluated and redesigned it, we would ensure that we complete it with drainages. “Because we want to bring more people to live in Ogun State and work in Lagos. We say Ogun State is a spillover state for Lagos State, so we want to continue to encourage that but, they should please be patient with us and give us time as we embark on it. It cannot happen overnight.’’ Speaking after assessing the level of the ongoing work, the governor expressed satisfaction with the pace of construction work which was flagged off in February, 2020 and awarded to an indigenous firm, Craneburg Construction Company, under a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement. He remarked that the road, when completed, would serve as an alternative route towards decongesting the nation’s busiest highway, Lagos – Ibadan expressway and also open up the Ijebu-Ode-Epe corridor for industrial purposes.