The Nigeria Police Force  (NPF) has begun a free prostate cancer screening and treatment for officers and men, who are 40 years old and above under the welfare package of the inspector-general of police, (IGP), Mohammed Adamu. At the flag-off of the programme yesterday, Adamu said that without a healthy police organisation, the country can never be secured. He stated that given the nature and pressure that goes with police work, it was imperative that they get medical attention constantly and check themselves to know some of the diseases that can bring them down to the level that they cannot perform their critical duties. According to him, any disease that affects the prostate can kill, but when one checks constantly, at least every three months, then it can be controlled. The IGP said that “when we constantly check ourselves, then we can have preventive measures so that the investment the country on us would not be in vain, because if we are taken down by diseases, we would not be able to perform our duties. For that reason, we must have the platform and capacity to be checking ourselves. “But when you go about without knowing, the tendency is that the disease is there and you would not know until it becomes worse and then you come to realise and spend more money to treat it than you would have spent, if checked earlier. “Today’s event is one that would help us identify whether we have such a disease or not. If we have it, then, we start treatment immediately. “If we don’t have it, we take precautions and know those things we need to do in order not to have the disease. I encourage every officer over 40 years to present him or herself for the screening. It is free. If you do the screening and you have it, it would be better than not doing it but then you still have it. Then you would be in trouble later. I encourage all to present themselves for the screening. “Already within the police, we have a very strong medical section that has the capacity of not only checking police officers on a daily basis but even their families and members of the public. But for us to improve on what we have, there is the need for partnership with  health organisations to keep our officers fit. What we are doing is important for the health of our officers,” Adamu said.