..says fare for Abuja to Kaduna train service set to double The minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi has revealed that the operational hub of the Itakpe to Warri line has been named after former president, Goodluck Jonathan. The minister, who stated this while inspecting the Warri to Itakpe rail rehabilitation on Saturday, said “According to Amaechi, “It was named after Goodluck Jonathan and the President approved it. It was named a long time ago Agbor station and the yard was named after president Jonathan. We have named the Agbor complex station after former president Goodluck Jonathan.” Speaking on the station, the minister who expressed satisfaction with the quality of work, said “when you see a good job, don’t ask questions. The camera will show that this is a good job, this is the Goodluck Jonathan Agbor Station which incorporates the railway facilities. Both Julius Berger, CCECC and Team have all done a good job. The minister also revealed that transport fare for Abuja to Kaduna train service will double as the management plans to implement social distancing on the coaches. He stated that the coaches will be reduced by half as each each will now carry 40 instead of the usual 84 passengers. On the time for commissioning of the project, the minister said “It is the duty of the ministry to convince the presidency that we are ready for commissioning, I won’t commission, it is the president that will commission but we are thinking about virtual commissioning. Amaechi, while speaking on the reopening of train services, said “we need to maintain social distancing and ensure that we won’t be able to transmit COVID-19 amongst ourselves. Now that is worst when you have to deal with 4000 passengers a day between Kaduna and Abuja. ” In fact, this is more like a test run. I told them I want only 30 persons and I’m sure we are more than that, so imagine what happens when you have to deal with passengers. This test run will make us go back to the drawing board and the first thing we will put in place when we get approval is that the cost of Transportation from Abuja to Kaduna will double because each coach takes 88 passengers but we will reduce it to 40 and the price will increase but we will need to talk to the president before we move on. “The next thing is every body must come with his own hand sanitizer, government won’t buy for you and it has to have minimum of 90 percent alcohol. Next thing is that you must come with your face mask without which you won’t enter, if you enter and bring it down, we will stop and you will come down even if it is in the bush. We will increase the presence of police for the enforcement of law and order in all the coaches and the implications is that when you enter the coach with your face mask and remove it, we will stop, you will come down or put back the mask and if you don’t, we will not move. Either other passengers force you to wear it or the police will force you, no matter how big you are. ” Because, the fact that you want to die, does not mean that I want to die, believe me, I want to live. People have to comply as there is no big man about death, if you want to die, you can go to your house and die peacefully whether you are a big man or a poor man. Everybody must obey the rules. We are going to comply with the COVID committee and the committee says three metre distance that’s why we are reducing the number of passenger from 88 per coach to 40, not even 44 because you must give that 3 metre distance so that you don’t spread COVID-19.”