In the wake of COVID-19 in Nigeria, there has been a surge in maternal, new born, child and pregnancy related deaths owing to the diverted attention to containing the spread of the pandemic. According to the 2020 World Population Data Sheet by the Population Reference Bureau (PRB), immunisation programs and other maternal prevention activities have been side lined as health care workers and resources are diverted to combat the pandemic. This has led to Nigeria recording about 67 infants’ deaths per 1,000 live births, as revealed by the 2020 PRB report. Having analysed the 2020 World Population Data Sheet by PRB, experts have raised alarm over the increase in maternal, new born, child and pregnancy related deaths in Nigeria. They said, while there are other socio-economic challenges facing the country, which also need attention, lack of prioritisation of family planning and issues concerning population growth by government and its agencies have triggered more maternal and child mortality in the country. Prof. Oluwarotimi Akinola, President, Society Of Gynaecology and Obstetrics Of Nigeria (SOGON), while giving an analysis on maternal mortality ratio in Nigeria over the past three decades, said, Nigeria recorded 1500 per 100,000 live births in 1988, 800 per 100,000 in 2003, 545 per 100,000 in 2008, 576 per 100,000 in 2013 and 512 per 100,000 in 2018. These deaths can be averted with family planning, says Akinola adding that, “There would have been 1.2 million (15%) additional maternal deaths during the period 1990 to 2005 if there had been no increase in family planning use in 1990.” If Nigeria can achieve the 27 per cent modern Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (mCPR), it would help to avert 578,250 unsafe abortions and 1.5 million unintended pregnancies, save about 90,000 women lives, decrease maternal mortality by 33 per cent and infant mortality by 44 per cent, decrease complications of pregnancy and delivery and prevent or reduce maternal age related incidence of genetic disease. Other benefits of family planning as highlighted by Akinola are, it helps to enhance planning; it increases educational and intellectual development of women, it increases financial potential for families and improves quality of life for the community, society and country at large. In the same vein, Dr. Salma Anas-Kolo, the director, Department of Family Health, Federal Ministry of Health, said COVID-19 is an indirect cause of maternal, new born and child morbidity and mortality in Nigeria, which has negatively affected the implementation of Reproductive, Maternal, New born, Child, Adolescent Health and Nutrition (RMNCAH+N) in Nigeria. Anas-Kolo, pointed that, while there was an increase in the proportion of facilities that provided family planning and Long-Acting Reversible Contraception (LARC) services during the start of year 2020, the coronavirus pandemic has caused a drop of 14 per cent. She attributed the decrease to several factors including; patients’ reluctance to visit health facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic, the challenges with shortage of commodity supply experienced across multiple states due to the pandemic and delays in commodity replenishment at the state stores. Proffering solution, Anas-Kolo said, all health facility workers should return to work with personal protective equipment, adding that the attitude of health workers to patients in public health facilities should be improved. “There is need to put in place mitigations to avoid prolong interruption of family planning services to prevent poor health indices especially in RMNCAH+N activities,” she added. Odoh Diego Okenyodo, Data Analyst, at an ‘Online Data Driven Reporting Workshop’ organised by Pathfinder International, lamented the socioeconomic implications of Nigeria’s escalating population along its birth rate, while noting the fact that not all women of reproductive age who needs modern family planning have access to it. According to the analyst, Nigeria’s fertility rate is worse than that of Ethiopia with current population of 114.9 million and fertility rate of 4.3, while Nigeria is 5.3. Also, Ethiopia is estimated to have 46 million people in 15 years’ time, while Nigeria would be adding 90 million persons. It means that Ethiopia would be adding three million yearly, as against Nigeria’s six million additions within the same period,” he explained. Dr. Sakina Amin-Bello, senior programme advisor, Reproductive Health, Pathfinder International, said the PRB showed that only 17 percent of married women between the ages of 15 and 49 are using all methods of family planning in the country. Amin-Bello said only 12 percent women in the same age bracket of reproduction are using modern methods of family planning, noting that only 34 percent demands for modern contraception are satisfied in the country. To tackle the alarming surge in maternal, new born and child mortality in Nigeria, experts have reiterated that the upscale of family planning services is the way to go. They have however urged governments, civil societies, parliaments, health workers and journalists to commit to addressing the root causes of maternal death and improve the status of women by prioritizing family planning services/activities.