With the lifting of the lockdown on domestic flights in Nigeria, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has released new procedural guidelines to protect air travellers and other airport users from contacting COVID-19 while travelling. This was made known by the FAAN spokesperson, Henrietta Yakubu. She said the new standard operating procedure (SOP) also tagged the “New normal”, was aimed at protecting all stakeholders and preventing further spread of the COVID-19 virus. Yakubu explained that in line with the new normal departing passengers must comply with the following guidelines: All passengers must arrive the airport properly kitted with their facemasks and they must also ensure a minimum of 1.5m physical distancing; aviation medical/port health personnel would screen each passenger and ensure the use of facemasks. “Those travelling with pets must get necessary clearance from Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Service; all passengers’ luggage would be disinfected before entry into the departure halls; passengers are required to wash their hands as often as possible, hand sanitizer would be provided for passengers before entrance, at the waiting halls/ lounges and pre-boarding gates; all footwear would be disinfected/sanitized by foot mats placed at all entrances to the terminal building, amongst others. “For arriving passengers, the following guidelines must be adhered to; on disembarking from the aircraft, passengers would observe physical distancing as they board the cobuses (hand sanitizer would be provided in the buses); physical distancing protocols must be observed at the baggage claim area, where hand sanitizer would also provided. Disinfected trolleys would be made available for passengers and all COVID-19 protocols must be observed while undergoing customs check. “Passengers would exit the halls and head straight to the car park for pick up, If you must speak to anyone around, please speak to a properly tagged Aviation Security (AVSEC) officer, physical distancing would be maintained while waiting to be screened by personnel of port health services, amongst others. “In addition to the above guidelines, passengers are required to observe social distancing and make use of the floor markings at the security screening area. They must also comply with all other security guidelines as laid down by officials of the Aviation Security (AVSEC) department,” she added. 