Youths in the north, under the aegis of Northern Youths for Good Governance, have thrown their right behind the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami over the investigation of the former acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu. Addressing newsmen in Kano on Saturday, the National Coordinator of the group, Bello Hadi called on Malami not to leave any stone unturned in investigating the suspended EFCC Chairman. Hadi described the arrest and detention of Magu as a democratic progress that depicts the government in good light. According to him, the effort of the Attorney General to probe Magu was done in good light to cleanse the image of the government in its fight against corrupt practices by highly placed officials. Hadi, therefore advised the investigation panel not to relent in the probe until it reach logical conclusion, adding that the action was in line with the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari in fighting corruption, which according to him, “had become a deadly cancer in the country.” He said “We wish to throw our weight in support of the Attorney General of the Federation in trying to cleanse the image of the government in its fight against corrupt practices by highly placed officials. “The current investigation going on against the former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC should reach a logical conclusion and leave no stone unturned. “This action is in line with the agenda of the Muhammadu Buhari regime of fighting against corruption which has become a deadly cancer in the country” Hadi declared. He further called on Nigerians to understand that no citizen should be considered above the law. “We are aware that according to the Nigerian Constitution every accused person is presumed innocent until he is proven guilty by a court of law. Against this background, we are not pronouncing the former EFCC boss as guilty, but we believe he must be investigated to erase all forms of doubt in the minds of Nigerians. “It is pertinent for Nigerians to understand that no individual should be presumed to be above the law by virtue of his position. Hence, Magu should be investigated and if found guilty should be prosecuted as provided by the laws of the land.