A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Kingsley Wenenda Wali, has faulted the decision of the National Assembly on the proposed 774,000 jobs by the Federal Government, describing their action as embarrassing. He wondered why a senator from Anambra State, Senator Ifeanyi Uba, would demand that a percentage of the job opportunities should be shared among Senators. Wali, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt, said members of the Green Chambers of the National Assembly should have known that policy implementation is not part of their brief. The APC chieftain said: “It’s rather unfortunate that our National Assembly has decided to add to their reputation as an uncaring institution, unprecedented pettiness. We would have thought that as law makers, they should have been able to appreciate that policy implementation is not part of their brief. It is therefore, a huge embarrassment that a senator of the federal republic, will utter such inanity as the comment by Senator Ifeanyi Ubah that “If those jobs are given to us, it will be shared equally or percentage of it should be given to senators, we will take it back to the people we are representing.” “Reckless comments such as this, can only mean that their are indeed wanderers in our legislative chambers, who do not have any business being around the precincts of the National Assembly complex. This is because it doesn’t seem like our National Assembly members even understand their brief.” Wali described as irritating, the demand by members of the Senate Committee on Labour, for an apology from the Minister of State for Labour, Festus Keyamo, for insisting that a public hearing should be what it is. He said: “What we find most irritating, is the demand by members of the committee, that the minister of labour, should apologize to the demigods, for insisting that a public hearing should be what it is -A PUBLIC HEARING. How difficult is it to understand the phrase “Public Hearing”? “Nigerians should rise up and speak up against the actions of these serial blackmailers and now, the biggest threat to our democracy. We can’t get out of military dictatorship and jump straight into legislative dictatorship, brigandage and terrorism. Nigerians must say no to this parliamentary junta. “We are also, not unaware of the fact that those who feel they lost out in the dissolution of the National Working Committee of the ruling party, have shifted their battle to the National Assembly. A rather unfair and ridiculous thing to do in this period of national emergency. “They want their pound of flesh, at the expense of the wellbeing of the thousands of Nigerians, who are the direct beneficiaries of the Post Covid-19 empowerment program. Blackmailing the executive arm of government and in the process punishing the Nigerian people, over internal party politics is not only despicable, mindless and malicious, but a gross exhibition of sadism. “We hope that the leadership of the National Assembly will have the presence of mind, to quickly stop this act of legislative rascality and buccaneering before Nigerians resort to self-help.”