The federal government warned yesterday that though COVID-19 presents symptoms similar to malaria such as fever, both diseases are caused by different organisms and differ in mode of transmission. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) stated this on its official twitter handle, warning that Nigerians should resist the temptation of taking COVID-19 and malaria as the same infection. This is just as the NCDC announced 653 new cases in the country, as total number of infections from the virus rose to 36,107. The health agency identified 12 symptoms that could point to the existence of COVID-19 in the human body. According to NCDC, the listed symptoms will help Nigerians “take responsibility” by quickly calling the available hotlines, should they experience a combination of the symptoms. “If you have Cough or Fever, difficulty in breathing or shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, and loss of speech or movement, seek immediate medical attention,” NCDC advised. The World Health Organisation (WHO) had advised that people with mild symptoms who were otherwise healthy should manage their symptoms at home. “On average it takes 5-6 days from when someone is infected with the virus for symptoms to show, however it can take up to 14 days,” it
said. Meanwhile, NCDC in its updated data yesterday indicated that the 653 new cases were reported from 27 states and the FCT.  “Till date, 36,107 cases have been confirmed, 14,938 cases have been discharged and 778 deaths have been recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory,” it said. Foreign Affairs Minister, Benue Speaker, House Member Test Positive In a related development, the minister of foreign affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, has tested positive for COVID-19 Onyeama is the second member of the Federal Executive Council to be tested positive of the virus, after the late chief of staff to President Buhari, Mallam Abba Kyari.  The minister who personally broke the news on his Twitter handle, yesterday, noted that he tested positive after his fourth COVID-19 test on Saturday, following symptoms of a throat irritation. He further disclosed that he was heading for isolation in a health facility. “Did my fourth COVID-19 test yesterday at the first sign of a throat irritation and unfortunately this time it came back positive. That is life! Win some, lose some. Heading for isolation in a health facility and praying for the best,” the minister said. Sequel to the announcement, President Muhammadu Buhari in a statement wished the minister quick recovery as he goes into isolation. According to the statement signed by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, the president described Onyeama as a strong pillar of his administration, commending him for tirelessly working to stem the spread of coronavirus in the country as a member of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, and also ensuring the safety of Nigerians abroad. “The country is eternally grateful to Geoffrey Onyeama for his diligence in attracting international support for Nigeria to defeat the coronavirus pandemic and boost the economy. I wish him speedy recovery,” the president said.  In the same vein, Speaker of the Benue State House of Assembly, Titus Uba, and the chairman, House Committee on Information and Orientation, Tertsea Gbiseh, have tested positive for the virus.  Unconfirmed reports also suggest that some members and staff might have tested positive.  Consequently, the Speaker has ordered the immediate closure of the state House of Assembly Complex and ordered the fumigation of the premises. NCDC in its report confirmed that Uba, who represents Kyan constituency and Gbiseh, who represents Kwande East constituency tested positive for the virus. A statement personally signed by Gbiseh disclosed that results for other members and staff of the Benue State legislature were being awaited. “The Assembly by virtue of its official functions and constituency responsibilities stand the natural risk of exposure to carriers of the virus despite the adherence to personal hygiene and COVID-19 safety
protocols, and just like every other public worker, it is an occupational hazard that comes with service,” he said. The statement further disclosed that the affected members have immediately gone into self-isolation and full treatment has commenced on them in line with COVID-19 protocols. However Uba and Gbiseh who were asymptomatic are assisting the NCDC in contact tracing.  Edo Discharges 58 More Patients Also, the Edo State government announced yesterday that it has discharged 58 more COVID-19 patients who have tested negative for the virus and cleared from the state’s isolation centres to return to their families. The state commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, who spoke to journalists in Benin City, commended the sacrifice, resilience and
commitment of health workers and other essential workers on the frontlines of government’s efforts in containing the pandemic. The commissioner further reiterated the need to protect the state’s aged population, urging residents to comply with all guidelines and safety measures to curtail the spread of the virus in the state. Okundia further noted that the state had recorded 11 new confirmed cases, tested at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital (ISTH) laboratory. He added that Edo has so far recorded a total of 8, 350 suspected cases, 1,885 confirmed cases, 62 deaths and 1,208 discharged. According to the commissioner, the state tested over 8,759 residents and its contact tracing 4,756 others across the state’s 18 local government areas.