The dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the setting up of the Governor Mai Mala Buni National Caretaker Committee is seen by political observers as a timely action that helped in saving the party from an early atrophy. As at the time the decision was taken, the APC under the leadership of Oshiomhole was already heading towards possible disintegration as several groups struggled for the soul of the party. President Muhammadu Buhari has received commendations for stepping in at the right time and preventing the party crisis from boiling over. It is the belief of so many party stakeholders and watchers of events in the polity, that the setting up of the Buni Committee, comprising respected leaders of the party, is a right step in the right direction which would help to heal the heavy wounds inflicted on the party by the reckless and unilateral manner the party was run by the dissolved Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee. Since coming on board, the Buni Committee has initiated the process of reconciliation across the party with a view to calming frayed nerves and healing all wounds. The Committee had undertaken trips to party leaders across the country like Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Chief Akande, the former Interim National Chairman of the party and others to preach peace and reconciliation. The Committee has also met with the APC Governors and other leaders. All these efforts are helping to win back peace to the party. The ongoing shuttle diplomacy by the Buni Committee is also helping the party to go into the coming governorship elections in Edo and Ondo States as one united body. However, behind the scene, there appears to be thickening plots over which geo-political zone in the party should have the chairmanship ticket. The plots are geared toward the politics of presidential succession in 2023. Some influential party leaders with interest in 2023 are keen on the rezoning of the chairmanship of the APC ticket to zones other than their own to help brighten their prospects in the race. It is against this background that some underground moves had been initiated to move the chairmanship away from the South South to other zones.
Well-meaning party stakeholders are advising caution, noting that taking such precipitate action now would spark off further crisis which is not in the best interest of the party. Such ill-advised move runs against the grain of equity and justice in the party. Political pundits believe that the best interest of the party would be better served if the chairmanship ticket is retained in the South South, as it will enable the zone to serve out its four-year tenure which was truncated with the ouster of Oshiomhole. Until the dissolution of the National Working Committee of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomoleheld the position on behalf of the South South geo-political zone. By convention and existing traditions, another candidate from the South South was expected to take over and complete the tenure. Investigations have, however, revealed that based on the political permutations for Buhari’s successor in 2023, some interest groups are pushing vigorously for the rezoning of the chairmanship slot to suit their political interests. Such moves run against the grain of existing wisdom and is perceived as being capable of creating more crises in the party. It is believed that a prominent leader of the party from the South West who is interested in the 2023 presidential race, is scheming seriously to have the chairmanship slot zoned to the South East to preclude the zone from the presidential race. Some big names are being played up in the South East to step forward for the position. One of the persons being tipped is former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani, who incidentally is a member of the Buni-led National Caretaker Committee. A party stakeholder in Abuja, Chief George Ohikere, stated: “The race for 2023 has started with the current permutations on the chairmanship. The plot to zone the chairmanship to the South East is to thwart the presidential aspiration of the zone and make it dead on arrival”. On the other hand, a particular party strong man from the South South who is also believed to habourpresidential ambition, is also pushing for the chairmanship to go to North Central to pave way for his aspiration. Based on all these cold calculations, pressure is being mounted on the Governor Buni-led Caretaker Committee to move the chairmanship slot outside the South South. These moves, however, are being resisted by well-meaning party leaders who believe that retaining the slot in the South South would ensure unity, equity and stability in the party. Influential party leaders like Governors El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State and Chairman, Nigerian Governors Forum, Governor Kayode Fayemi are said to be in support of the retention of the chairmanship in the South South. Watchers of unfolding developments in the APC believe that the evolving unity in the party under the Buni Committee should not be allowed to be torpedoed by the machinations of self-centred politicians who are only interested in their personal ambitions. Governor Buni and his Committee have done fairly well in smothering the fire that almost burned down the party. The best thing to do now is to encourage him and his members to complete the reconciliation and healing process in the party by bringing all aggrieved groups on board. The party does not need to go into fresh crises. It will serve its best interest by ensuring that the South South retains the chairmanship and completesthe truncated tenure under Oshiomhole. This is the only way to maintain unity and stability in the party. – Apkoti, a political analyst wrote from Lagos