Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, on Tuesday, described the call for the investigation of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, ex-Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, ex-Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, Senator Dino Melaye and himself as a huge joke. A suspected Nigerian internet fraudster, Ramon Abbas, popularly known as Hushpuppi was recently arrested in Dubai and extradited to the United States of America (USA) where he is currently facing trial. Following his arrest, the All Progressives Congress (APC) had called for the probe of some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains, including Atiku, Saraki, Dogara, Melaye and Frank for appearing in certain photographs with the suspect. However, the PDP in a statement described the call for the arrest and probe qof some of its prominent members over alleged links to Hushpuppi as “reckless and irresponsible,” saying it further exposed a victimisation agenda of the APC. Atiku, Saraki and Dogara have also in separate statements denied any business connection with the suspect. Frank in a statement in Abuja, said the photographs under reference were taken at a public function and therefore cannot be proof that any of them had business dealings with the suspect. The Bayelsa-born Political Activist said: “That Hushpuppi was privileged to be in a function where he took pictures with His Excellency Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki, former Speaker Yakubu Dogara, Senator Dino Melaye and my humble self, does not prove that any of us had business dealings of any kind with him. “Hushpuppi is a Nigerian that was in a function with Nigerians and like any other Nigerian, asked for photo sections with these leaders of Nigeria which they obliged. “I understand that this is beyond the comprehension of the APC because Nigerians loathe them and run away from them whenever they come across them in foreign countries, hence they are trying to rope us into imaginary business dealings with Hushpuppi. “Does the APC think that the USA and its security agencies, like the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) make arrests before investigation? “Does the APC not realise that investigation was carried out before Hushpuppi was arrested? “America is not Nigeria where the APC’s militant wing, alias the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other security agencies, go about harassing innocent citizens even before any investigation is carried out. “We know that the APC and its sycophantic town criers are very good at weaving lies, propaganda, stealing and embezzling of public funds, supporting Boko Haram insurgents, bandits and protecting APC political Hushpuppis who before 2015 were in debt and extreme poverty, but have within the last five years become multibillionaires. “They even acquired Etisalat, now known as 9Mobile, Keystone Bank, etc. Some of these APC political hushpuppies even had bullion vans in their houses during the 2019 presidential election campaigns. “We have seen billions of dollars fritted away at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and other government agencies under the APC. “Even the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, last week, called for the sack of the head of the EFCC over corruption allegations. The EFCC boss, Ibrahim Magu, is presently being quizzed by a Presidential Panel. “What can be more embarrassing to a country than for the head of its anti-graft crusade to be indicted for corruption? “APC should bury their head in shame as this is the most corrupt democratic administration in the history of our beloved country. “The FBI does not need anybody to urge them to act or investigate any individual, if they have evidence against anybody they will do the needful as they are professionals in their job. “Finally, the APC should stop wasting time sponsoring unnecessary protests, rather they should focus on delivering the fake promises they made to Nigerians during their electioneering campaigns