President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), comrade Ayuba Wabba has said the COVID-19 pandemic has posed a series of challenges for workers The NLC president who stated this in his Goodwill message to  the National Delegates Conference of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria on Wednesday in Abuja, said the industrial rights of workers and the human rights privileges of citizens have never been as challenged and assaulted as during the prevailing corona virus pandemic. He said, “Thousands of workers in the private sector have already lost their jobs. There are threats of retrenchment through downsizing and right sizing in the public sector. The Stephen Oronsaye Report is being dusted from the archives. These are truly challenging times for workers.” Wabba explained that organized labour in Nigeria recently negotiated a N30,000 national minimum wage for Nigerian workers, but there are still challenges in the implementation of the consequential salary adjustment consequent on the new national minimum wage. He said, “I expect the incoming leadership to tackle this headlong. The challenge of emolument dichotomy between workers in the core civil service and those in the public service persists. In the spirit of the universal principles of equal pay for work of same value, I urge you not to relent on this matter until justice is achieved.” The NLC president lamented what he described as “deteriorating living conditions of civil servants in Nigeria.” According to him, there was a time when a career in the civil service was the envy of all, adding that right now, the story is completely different. He said, “there is no better time than now to fight for the recovery and repositioning of the civil service as the fulcrum and pride of governance. We must bring back our civil servants from the back waters of satellite towns and shanty settlements where the ultra-high cost of accommodation and living has driven them to. “We must task government to bring back the good old days when civil servants, both junior and senior, enjoyed decent and affordable accommodation in city centres. We must bring back the good old days of car loans, mortgage facilities, predictable promotion and so on to our civil servants. We must also prioritize the resuscitation of an effective social services delivery system. It is an open scandal that our children hardly attend public schools these days, no thanks to the massive decay of infrastructure and the de-motivation of the staff in our public schools. The gaps in quality social service delivery in Nigeria are the incentives for indiscipline and corruption. “A genuine fight against corruption starts with paying workers their legitimate entitlements as when due, ensuring effective social services that are affordable and emplacing a reward and punishment mechanism that brings the best out of workers.” Wabba also said the COVID-19 has severely tested the resilience and resoluteness of our public service and the men and women that run it, stressing that our healthcare system, our education system, our public transportation system and even our core civil service have all come under the heavy fire of the Covid-19 insurgency. He said, “It is gratifying and heartwarming that our workers in the civil service especially those at the senior cadre, health workers and those on essential service stood out well during this trying pandemic. While others were at home during the lockdown, you were behind your desks pursuing public policies for our collective wellbeing even at great risks to your health and life.” 