Commandant-general of Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu has reintegrated his agency commitment to the Agro Rangers initiative.  The C.G made the statement to LEADERSHIP’s Ruth Choji . Excerpts The Agro Rangers scheme seems to have become a successful venture. What is happening now? The Agro Rangers is a success. It was established as an initiative of the ministry of Agriculture which was then headed by Audu Ogbe. They came and met our then ministry and asked for a five thousand man squad that will be trained and provide security for  agro allied equipment, farmers and farmland. They proposed two and fifty cattle ranches who are yet to be established. The movement of cattle would have been stopped if we had ranches in place. The cattle would be healthy and it would boost the economy. We are to provide security for the cattle ranches that will attract investors. We train this men in Katsina and they have been deployed. For these Agro Rangers, I have received over 29 governors in my office, each requesting for them. Of particular interest is the Northeast, Borno State in particular. The Agro Rangers accompany the farmers as early as 6am to their farms, stay with them till 6pm before they are escorted home. There was a time our personnel warned the farmers not to go to their farms because of  security reports they received. A farmer defied the warning and without their knowledge went to his farm. He was attacked in his farm and they cut off his head. Among the Agro Rangers, we have intelligence officers, its a unit in the Corps. This sent a signal to all the farmers that we know what we are doing. I want to specially thank the Borno State Governor, Prof Zullum for his cooperation  with the Agro Rangers. He has given them cars and other things to make their work a bit easier.  Now farmers go to her farms. Recent Edo State Governor, Obaseki  was here and he requested for more Rangers that will protect their forests and farmlands.  So we will deploy more Agro Rangers across the nation. Now that most Governors are demanding for more rangers, who is sponsoring the rangers and their training? For now the Federal Government is funding us. They have trained and kitted  the first five thousand. With time we will have to liaise with the governor because it is like state police, working with the civil populace on ground. In Borno we go out with the civilian JTF, because we know them and have their data. Very soon we will have to register lots of people in these states who will need training. So the governors must come in and help out. Has the Corps experienced any loss since personnel were deployed to these dangerous terrain? We don’t like talking about casualties because it happens everyday. We sign for this and so it can happen. Some of them  are so gory that we don’t show people. But we just handle it here. What has happened to the recruitment exercise that took place last year? We have not employed anyone. We are going into certificate verification and medicals, then we go for the exams. It is because of COVID-19 that we have not gone far. Will the Corps integrate volunteers into its service? Everybody is a volunteer. Those that meet The criteria set by the Federal Government will be considered. Is the Corps involved in the fight against COVID-19? Yes the COVID-19 pandemic is serious, so we were given the role of enforcement of rules and regulations put in place by government. I felt that since we are dealing with civilians, there was no need to carry arms against our people. We withdrew all the amendment and made sure that we do more of enlightenment on the dangers of COVID-19. We still had casualties on our part. We lost one staff in Rivers, one in Gwagawalada by a hit and run driver. One staff was hit in Gwarinpa. Those staff in isolation centers had problems of trying to enforce isolation because patients always try to run away from the centers. They always take them back and some were infected. A DCG became our hero because he contacted the diseases in the course of carrying out his duty. What is the main challenge of Civil Defence in Nigeria? I will say funding even though the government is trying. From protection of national assets and now we are going into protection of mines, Agro Rangers, taskforce with other security agencies. Our mandate keeps expanding, but we have put our request to our minister, Rauf Aregbesola and I believe he is on it. Ondo and Edo elections is coming up soon. How prepared is the corps? We are always prepared. We have preelection preparations and post election preparations. Our mandate  includes protection of national critical assets, disaster management… Can you say that the Civil Defence is equipped to meet the present day challenges of internal security in Nigeria ? Yes we are prepared. We have well trained officers, who either work in synergy with other security outfits or man critical infrastructure like pipelines. More needs to be done but our officers are well trained with the right weapons. 