Apparently apprehensive of the devastating effect the natural disaster brings each year, some state governments that are at serious risk of flooding are making frantic efforts to contain flood as the rainy season becomes more intense. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that most of the states which were placed on red alert by the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) last year have initiated plans and processes that would mitigate possible flooding this year. The states include Lagos, Edo, Imo, Abia, Federal Capital Territory, Niger Jigawa, Adamawa, Delta, Rivers, Cross River, Oyo, Enugu, Kebbi, Nasarawa, Bauchi. It was learnt that since they were identified as being threatened by flooding across the country last year, they are proactive measures in place to tackle the disaster outside the funds meant for disaster management, especially ecological funds. In Niger State, the state government has approved the dredging of the waterways to prevent flooding in the state while tracking flood at the settlement along the plains of the River Niger. The director-general of Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmed, said the agency has started early warning signs and sensitisation of people in flood-prone areas. He noted that people living along the flood prone areas in Niger and Kaduna States are often advised to settle up land till the rainy season is over, while government is making more permanent arrangement for their resettlement. In Delta State, the state government has issued a red alert on the impending flooding in parts of the state, even as it advised residents in the flood-prone areas to relocate to higher and safer grounds to avoid being caught up in the looming flood predicted by the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). In a chat with LEADERSHIP Weekend, the Delta State commissioner for Environment, Mr Chris Onogba, said the state was already taking proactive measures to tackle the menace of perennial flooding across the state. Onogba hinted that government has commenced the evacuation of drainages and natural waterways for free flow of water to guard against flooding. He said government has also taken appropriate steps to sensitise citizens on the need to properly evacuate their waste, stressing that every household must patronise Private Sector Participants (PSP) for waste collection to dispose their waste in government approved dumpsites, even as he warned residents against illegal dumping of refuse in drainages to mitigate the effects of impending flooding in the state. In Jigawa State, the executive secretary of Jigawa State Emergency Management Agency, Alhaji Sani Yusuf Babura, noted that 17 local government areas in the state have been identified as flood-prone areas after the government received the National Metrological Agency (NIMET) and National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) reports which predicted that the state may likely experience moderate flood this year. Babura said the state government has started erecting embankment around Hadejia River to prevent the river from over flooding since last year. The secretary noted that the state has also embarked on dredging and clearance of waterways to control flooding, adding that public enlightenment was currently going on across the state for measures to be taken by individuals and communities to forestall or minimise the effects of the predicted flood. Similarly, the Cross River State commissioner for Environment, Mr Mfon Bassey, said the state government, through the Ministry of Environment, has already begun the process of opening up water channels, particularly at the state capital, which is flood-prone whenever there was heavy rainfall. He said, “As a government, we have already begun the process of desilting the gutters. We have removed so much debris and waste materials which were entering the gutters due to activities of people living around the area. “If you walk round the metropolis, you will agree with me that a lot has been done to ensure that we do not face the challenge of having our major city submerged in water due to blockage of the drains”. He maintained that the state government has spent a lot in the maintenance of the drainages to forestall flooding which has already hit some states in the country. According to him, government through its state-owned radio and television stations, Cross River Radio and Television Broadcasting Corporation (CRBC), and the ministry of Information has done a lot in the past in sensitising the people on dangers of emptying their waste bins into the drainages. He stated that it was now seen as a taboo for anyone to empty their waste bin into the gutter in the state. He said the state government has mounted waste bins at strategic places within the state capital to ensure that people wishing to discard their dust bins do so where men and women from the ministry of Environment can pick them up with trucks and subsequently evacuate them to the appropriate dumpsite. In the case of Abia, the state government is leaving no stone unturned in preparing for the rains. A visit by LEADERSHIP Weekend to the state ministry of Environment revealed that the state government has put both the Abia State Emergency Management Agency (ASEMA) and the Abia State Environmental Protection Agency (ASEPA) on red alert with regards to possible flooding in the state. A source at the ministry who pleaded anonymity said the state government was determined to avert flooding by all means possible. “We are on top of the situation, even though the rain has been intermittent. We are aware that in a matter of days, it will become regular and heavier and I can assure that we will do our best to guard against flooding,” he said. He, however, expressed worry over the indiscriminate dumping of waste in the drainages by the people, blaming it for most of the flooding experienced across the state with its attendant effects. “The ministry’s main headache is not Umuahia, which is less prone to flooding, but Aba where most of the structures were built without recourse to guidelines and approval as they are also substandard,” he added. He explained that almost every drainage is channeled to the Blue River (Waterside), adding that unfortunately, most of the channels are blocked and may soon overflow. The source added that just last week the ASEPA cautioned industrialists and butchers in the commercial city against dumping refuse into the Blue River to avoid over flooding. “If we fail to do the needful about the prediction now and open up the channels, the consequences will be high both in human and material losses. We will certainly not allow this to happen,” he stated. He added that the ministry has concluded arrangements to embark on a state-wide awareness campaign on the prediction, how to avoid it and the consequences in general. On the Plateau, the state commissioner for Environment, Hon Idi Bamaiyi, who was in an isolation centre told LEADERSHIP Weekend that he was not disposed to talk to our correspondent on the state’s preparedness for the season because all members of the state executive council were currently undergoing testing for COVID-19 in compliance with the directive of the state governor, Simon Lalong. But findings by our correspondent from the state ministry of Environment revealed that there was no budgetary allocation by the state government to curtail flooding this year. A source who did not want his name in print because he was not authorised to speak pointed out that apart from the radio jingles and public enlightenment campaigns carried out on television for people to clear their drainages and not to build structures close to riverine areas, there is no other monetary allocation for flood management in the state. Penultimate week, flood washed away the only bridge that links Wase and Langtang North local government council of the state as a result of heavy downpour. Similarly, Duamkwan -Haamniak Bridge in Shendam local government council collapsed as a result of flood. The bridge is between Nshar (Yelwa) and Garkawa. Governor Simon Lalong had visited the site and ordered the immediate repairs of the bridge. In Port Harcourt, communities on the bank of Orashi River and its tributaries covering Abua/ Odual, Ahoada-East, Ahoada-West, Akuku-Toru, Asari- Toru, Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni and Degema local government areas of Rivers State face flooding annually due to water rise in River Niger. However, the Rivers State government seems not to be prepared for the 2020 flood as predicted by NIMET. LEADERSHIP Weekend gathered that while there is no budgetary allocation in the 2020 budget to tackle flooding, the state government is yet to commence the desilting of creeks and rivulets in most riverine communities in preparation for the flood. Speaking to journalists recently, the sole administrator of Rivers State Waste Management Agency (RIWAMA), Felix Obuah, appealed to residents of the state not to dispose their wastes into drainages and other water channels to avoid blocking them, even as he identified such act as the major cause of flooding in the state.  Lagos Communities Submerged Meanwhile in Lagos State, the sudden recourse to canoe for transportation by some residents in recent times due to flooding during the rainy season is a lesson Lagos resident will not forget in a hurry. This is because in the last 10 days, Lagos State has been witnessing flooding in some parts of Mainland, Victoria Island, Lekki and its environs. Although other states of Nigeria are not exempted in this problem, the fact that Lagos State is surrounded by water seems to have worsened the situation. Some residents who spoke with LEADERSHIP Weekend in separate interviews about the recent floods that hit some communities in the state lamented the deluge was so massive that they are unable to leave their homes. Lagos residents urged the state governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to give priority attention to the clearing of canals in the metropolis to convert government’s effort made so far to permanent gains. Speaking on behalf of residents in Orile Agege, Alhaji Kola Abiodun, said, “We are suffering from flooding in this community. Any time it rains, our roads become flooded, we will be cut off and our property will be destroyed. “The shops would be locked and in some cases goods in the shops are destroyed. Year in year out we continue to record huge economic loss.’’ Commenting on the problem of flooding in Lagos, the managing director of Buildwell International Company Limited, Engr Afolabi Adedeji, said some structures were built on drainage channels thereby aggravating flooding. The environment expert noted: “Lagos is below the sea level but the challenge is because it is below the line water normally flows from the high gravity to lower gravity so achieving sufficient gradient is the problem. Then you have this issue of people building indiscriminately. If the buildings on the drainage channels belong to the higher and mighty, what will you do about it? “Even where drainages are properly constructed, to get adequate gradient of flop for the water to flow by gravity from the primary grains right up through the lagoon, it might not be so easy and that is why in countries that have similar challenges like Netherlands, Holland they go to the extent of having pumping stations to reduce the flow of the excess water “I know Nigeria is going to get there in tackling the problem of flooding but there are solutions and approaches.” Also, the Lagos State commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr Tunji Bello, and the special adviser to the governor on Drainages and Water Resources, Mr Joe Igbokwe, warned residents to prepare for likelihood of high level of flooding in the state due to planned release of 15 million cubic meters of water from Oyan River Dam coupled with predicted high intensity of rainfalls between July and August, 2020. They directed all residents living within low lying areas to vacate their houses because of potential dangers that may accompany torrential rainfall such as injury and loss of lives. According to Bello, the dam is opened yearly as a mitigating effect to create space in the dam for the storm water to have its maximum deployment. He added that the amount of water released yearly is determined by the combination of index of Suggested Rainfall Pattern, SRP and AFO, and hydrological data base of Ogun-Oshun River Basin Development Authority (OORBDAL). “In July, 5 million cubic meters (mcm) will be released and 8 to 10 million cubic meters in August. In September, it will be increased to 18 million cubic meters, while in October 23 million cubic meters which is the peak; then, by November gradual reduction of water released to the tube of 11million cubic meters. “Bello explained that the designed capacity of the dam is 270 million cubic metre with an annual runoff of 1770mc3, “however, this capacity has proved inadequate for today’s runoff of excess 2,372 million cubic metre, a clear 602 million cubic metre above the designed capacity”. FG Donates Fertilizer To Kogi Flood Victims Meanwhile, Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the disbursement of about 114, 315 fertilizers and other agricultural inputs, including specialised seedlings of Cashew, Soya beans, Sesame and agrochemicals to farmers and flood victims in the state. The donations were delivered to the state by the minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouq, alongside the minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Sabo Nanono and the directorgeneral of National Emergency Management Agency, AVM Ahmed (rtd). The ministers subsequently spot checked the disbursement of two months’ conditional cash transfer (CCT) to 62,129 indigenes of the state who are beneficiaries of the scheme. Governor Bello who received the delegation in his office lauded the president’s effort towards economic diversification through his administration’s investment in agriculture. He noted that it was the peasant farmers that require government assistance in the area of agricultural inputs and that the state would ensure the proper disbursement of the donation. The governor commended President Buhari for his agricultural revolution, noting that Kogi is taking after his giant strides in agriculture. The governor stated that such intervention by Mr President was meant for the peasants farmers and not the bourgeoise farm owners, noting that the donation will boost food production in the rural communities. Governor Bello said the donation by the Federal Government will spur his administration to do more in the annual distribution of farm inputs and agro-allied subsidy to farmers. He assured the federal government of strict distribution of items to the farmers in the state. The delegation commended the governor for his efforts in the state and urged him to ensure smooth distribution of the items.