Temporary reprieve came the way of a music promoter, Lateef Alagbada, who is awaiting extradition to the United States for trial on alleged drugs related offences as a Federal High Court in Lagos granted him post-judgment bail.
.
The trial judge, Justice Muslim Hassan granted Alagbada bail from the custody of International Police (INTERPOL), pending the hearing and determination of his appeal challenging his extradition order. Alagbada had been detained since September 2019 after he failed to stop his extradition request by the federal government. The judge gave the order for his temporary release while ruling on an application for bail filed by his counsel Dr. Babatunde Oni. The Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) did not oppose the application. The judge held, “There is evidence that defendants were served but did not respond. It is trite law that an undefended suit is deemed as an admission in law. “Since this court granted an extradition order the respondents have not taking any step. I am also aware of the fact of the travel ban as a result of COVID-19. “Consequently, bail is granted in the sum of N5 million with one surety, who must be a public servant not below Grade Level 15 or a landed property owner,” Hassan held. Justice Hassan had in June ordered Alagbada’s extradition while delivering judgment on an extradition application brought by the AGF. He gave the AGF 15 days to send the music promoter to America for prosecution, but the government was unable to execute the order due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Alagbada promoted the late Fuji maestro Sikiru Ayinde Barrister and many other Yoruba artistes. According to the government, the defendant, popularly called Lati Alagbada, is wanted abroad to face two counts of conspiracy to distribute, possess and import one kilogramme of heroine. The federal government action is based on a Certified True Copy (CTC) of a warrant for Alagbada’s arrest, in case No. 17-CR-227-JMV, issued on June 15, 2017, by a United States District Court of New Jersey.