President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday that improved gold mining operations in the country will generate no fewer than 250,000 jobs and over $500million annually in royalties and taxes for the federal government. Buhari who spoke at the official presentation of locally mined gold bars by the Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMDI) also reaffirmed his administration’s commitment to establishing gold refineries in Nigeria. He said this laudable initiative would support efforts at creation of jobs for Nigerians, diversifying the revenue base, and improving foreign exchange reserves. Reiterating the determination of the federal government to combat illegal mining activities, the president expressed concern that Nigeria lost close to $3billion from 2012 to 2018 due to illegal smuggling of gold. A statement by his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, quoted the president as saying: ‘‘With the implementation of the PAGDMI scheme which will result in the set-up of accredited gold buying centres across key mining areas, artisanal miners and SMEs engaged in mining will be able to capture the value of their work. ‘‘These operations will help in diversifying our revenue base. The sale of gold by artisanal miners and SMEs at accredited centers will help the government in realizing royalties and taxes from the sale of these assets. ‘‘These developments will also help in improving our foreign reserves by enabling the Central Bank of Nigeria to increase the amount of gold in its reserves. ‘‘These gold assets which will be purchased in Naira, will not only help to bolster our international reserves, it will also provide a hedge against inflation and other economic volatilities associated with foreign currencies that are held in our reserves”. President Buhari noted that in addition to the potential revenue gains that will occur from mining operations, efforts are being made to enable the setting up of gold refineries in Nigeria. He expressed optimism that these measures would lead to the creation of additional job opportunities across the gold value chain and also help the nation capture the additional value created from the gold refining process. On environmental degradation, President Buhari pledged that Government would pay close attention to safety and environmental measures to protect workers and the environment. The Nigerian leader also commended all stakeholders involved in the PAGMI for their painstaking efforts in developing a programme aimed at improved sourcing and refining of high-quality gold bars, derived from minefields in Nigeria. The president recalled that the PAGMI, which was launched in 2019, was well timed, considering the impact of COVID-19 on the global economy and indeed on the Nigerian economy.  He said the impact of COVID-19 and the containment measures designed to slow the spread of the virus, had led to a slowdown in global growth, which is projected to decline into negative territory for the first time since the Great Depression. Buhari stated: ‘‘It has also led to a 40 percent drop in crude oil prices. In Nigeria, the drop in crude oil prices has had a significant impact on government revenue, as well as on our foreign exchange earnings. ‘‘In responding to this challenge, it is therefore paramount that we strengthen our efforts at implementing policies and programs that will enable greater diversification of the Nigerian economy. Enabling investment in the Solid Mineral sector is a key part of the government’s economic diversification program. ‘‘Given our current estimated gold reserves of over 200m ounces, most of which have not been exploited, developing sustainable programmes that will catalyse increased investment in the extraction and refining of gold sourced from mines in Nigeria, is indeed vital”. Stressing the benefits of the PAGMDI, the president explained that it will support job creation efforts particularly for artisanal miners, by providing them with a guaranteed offtake by the Central Bank of Nigeria. He further said efforts are being made to support artisanal miners in improving the standard of the gold that will be sold to the apex bank, in order to ensure that they meet international benchmarks. According to him, the initiative will enable the deployment of financing schemes that will help miners improve on the quality of their mining operations. ‘‘The gold buying program by the Central Bank will ensure that artisanal miners are no longer subjected to the volatility in gold prices that occurs in the absence of credible off-takers, which has often led to a significant loss in the value of gold sold by miners, as well as in encouraging illegal smuggling,’’ he said.  Formal Operations Will Eliminate Insecurity, Illegality –  Gov Bagudu

In the same vein, the chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum and Kebbi State governor, Atiku Bagudu, said the gold purchase programme will eliminate illegality and criminality in the sector. Banditry and kidnapping in the Northwest states of Zamfara, Kebbi and Sokoto have been attributed to illegal mining. Speaking to State House correspondents after the official presentation of locally mined gold bars by PAGMDI to President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Bagudu said even though many states, including Kebbi, have people in the artisanal gold mining sector for decades, this was the first time they were being energized by a National Programme . He said the miners will now be supported by a steering committee to include those artisanal miners that are eager to do their activities, but have been doing so illegally, with health hazards to themselves and damage to the environment, adding that because of illegality, it brings insecurity. He said, “This Programme now eliminates all that. They are supported by the programme to do so formally. They are now registered; they have modern tools, protective gear with minimal damage to the environment, and above all, they are buying centres which you will buy from at prices that they would never have gotten before and with the creativity and support of the Central Bank governor who is also a member of the steering committee, this gold will go into reserve providing ready market. “So this energizes state governors, gold producing communities across Nigeria and I believe this is an initiative that will see us through more individually and collectively in this gold production and ensure that people benefit from it”. On the Impact of the programme on insecurity in the Northwest, he said, “Will this contribute to security? Yes certainly. It attracts criminals and criminality but the PAGMDI process is now formalising them, recognizing them, and providing them protection so that whosoever wants to participate will register and get trained and participate and do it legitimately. “This will have a significant effect on insecurity in some places of the country, particularly where mineral production, including gold is taking place because it will provide them with safety and formalisation. “They are no longer criminals, they are no longer doing it illegally and the PAGMDI scheme is spending money in providing  security for their operations”. On his part, CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, said the launch of the programme will increase the revenue base of the country. He noted: “Like you all know for several years and decades we have been talking about the need to diversify the revenue base of the Nigerian economy and we will say that today this has been actualised in the sense that other than receiving dollar revenue from proceeds of sale of crude oil, we have today received into our reserves through the purchase of this 12.5kg purified gold bar into our reserves; we have today received gold into our reserves,” he added. Earlier, minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc Olamilekan Adegbite in his welcome remarks during the virtual presentation of the first Gold Bar to President Buhari  said the event was a milestone on the way to positioning the country in gold trade. He said President Buhari is the first president to walk the talk in respect of the diversification of the country’s economy by approving extra budgetary allocation of N30billion in 2017 to the sector as an intervention fund. The minister explained that the PAGMI initiative is a pilot programme to develop a gold ecosystem that would serve as a pilot for gold trading in Nigeria. “The essence is to formalise artisanal gold miners in Nigeria and through registered and recognize buying centers, takes off their mined gold, aggregate and refine it to London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) standard and the CBN will be the off taker for this,” he explained. He said while PAGMI was to start with five (5) states as pilot, including that is Zamfara, Kebbi, Niger, Kaduna and Osun States, the government is currently giving priority to Kebbi and Osun States. He disclosed that the gold that was presented to the President today was from Kebbi State.