President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Mohammed Umar as acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). This is just as the president has approved the suspension of Ibrahim Magu as acting chairman of the anti-graft agency. This was contained in a statement by Dr Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, the special assistant on media and public relations to the attorney-general of the Federation (AGF) and minister of Justice. “President Muhammadu Buhari has also approved that the EFCC director of operations, Mohammed Umar, should take charge and oversee the activities of the commission pending the conclusion of the ongoing investigation and further directives in that regards,” the statement noted. In the statement made available to LEADERSHIP Weekend, the AGF, Abubakar Malami, said Magu was placed on suspension in order to allow for unhindered inquiry by the presidential investigation panel under the Tribunals of Inquiry Act and other relevant laws. Meanwhile, the embattled former chairman of EFCC, Magu, has written to the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, asking to be released on bail. His counsel, Mr Oluwatosin Ojaomo, asked the police authorities to grant his client bail, having been detained beyond the constitutionally stipulated period. In the letter, Magu’s lawyer asked the police boss to grant his client bail on ”self-recognisance”. Magu who is being probed by the Justice Ayo Salami – led presidential panel sitting inside the old banquet hall of the presidential villa has remained in police detention at the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), Abuja right from the first day of the interrogation. He is facing 21 corruption allegations from the attorney general of
the federation (AGF) and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. The panel had on Thursday summoned the directors from the commission to give insight on some of the allegations against the embattled chairman. Over three weeks, the panel has been sitting and scrutinising the
corruption allegations against the suspended acting chairman.