Three notorious bandits surrendered to troops following aggressive onslaught against them in Katsina and Zamfara States. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche in a statement said the Armed Forces of Nigeria troops have continued to conduct intensive clearance operations to identified bandits enclaves in the North- West, with attendant successes against the criminal elements. “Owing to intensified operations, projected by aggressive presence and posture of troops in the theatre, 3 notable bandits have surrendered to troops along with their weapons,” he said. He said the repentant bandits submitted one Light Machine Gun and two AK 47 rifles. He explained that troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI on  3 June 2020 following credible intelligence stormed a bandits’ camp at Sanu village in Zurmi LGA of Zamfara State and engaged the bandits who fled in disarray and  scores escaped with gunshot wounds. The coordinator noted that the troops following exploitation of the general area recovered one AK47 rifle and one SMG rifle. In a related development, the troops engaged bandits at Bawan Daji village and neutralised one bandit while many others escaped with gunshot wounds. He said the troops  further raided bandits’ enclave at Gidan Zamfarawa about 10km from Mashanyin Zaki. Meanwhile, the Air Task Force of Operation LAFIYA DOLE has destroyed the dwellings of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) leaders and neutralized some of their fighters in separate air strikes conducted at Parisu and Bula Bello in the Sambisa Forest Area of Borno State. The coordinator Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche said the  air interdiction missions were executed on 3 July 2020 as part of the ongoing subsidiary Operation LONG REACH II after intelligence reports indicated a resurgence of terrorists’ activities in the two settlements. He said Parisu, with its booby-trapped access routes, fortified checkpoints and structures camouflaged under the forest vegetation, served as a stronghold for the BHT Commanders, while recent aerial surveillance missions showed increased activities of the terrorists in a cluster of structures in the middle of Bula Bello. He said the Air Task Force therefore, dispatched its fighter jets to attack the two locations. “The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) jets, while taking turns to engage the targets, scored accurate bomb and rocket strikes, resulting in the destruction of some of the structures as well as the killing of several terrorists”, he said.