Chief Idahosa Wells Okunbo a.k.a. Capt. Hosa is a well-known businessman and community leader whose act of philanthropy transcends his native Edo State. I don’t know him personally except seeing his good humanitarian works all over Edo State and the feats he has achieved in the maritime sector by ensuring security and tranquility for the blue economy to thrive in the nation’s interest. I know for sure that he is not a politician save for being a friend of politicians irrespective of their political leanings. Like President Buhari, he can be described as man for all and nobody in particular. Therefore, one gets confused or even amused that some desperate politicians are hell-bent of dragging him into the murky waters of Edo politics in order tarnish image just because they are afraid of the outcome of the forthcoming governorship election in the state. Without mincing words, Capt. Hosa few days ago in an Open Letter to President Buhari, said he had experienced an unprecedented dose of orchestrated bashings and campaign of calumny calculated to malign his person and cast aspersions on his hard-earned reputation. He added that the spate of coordinated attacks, with their attendant mode of vicious execution, can best be described as the unconscionable actions by attack dogs and hirelings of desperate Edo State Government on the watch of Governor Godwin Obaseki. “After a deep evaluation of these seamless attacks and poisonous bitterness against my person, I have come to the conclusion that, as a good-hearted Edo son, I do not deserve the embarrassing treatment. My pedigree will never, ever allow me to deliberately concoct any wrong against my State and its Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki who, today, by the grace of God, enjoys the mandate of the good people of Edo State to preside over their affairs. “I am, however, shocked, bewildered and pained to observe that despite my very sincere, robust and stated commitment to support the anticipated pace of infrastructure development, progress and other social investment initiatives through the deployment of my modest goodwill and network of capital, for which I am eternally grateful to God, Alas, the response has been to paint my person with a tar brush of public odium that verges on mischief,” Chief Okunbo said. He consequently, probably as a last resort, called on President Buhari in the said Open Letter to call Governor Obaseki to order. The right question, therefore, is why is Obaseki after Chief Okunbo (Capt. Hosa), who apparently has nothing against the governor given his visible commitment to the development of Edo state? The answers are not far-fetched. The false belief that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s unrelenting battle against Obaseki is being funded by the popular Benin businessman, Capt. Hosa Okunbo, is one reason, while the rumour mill concocted another lie that Okunbo’s grouse against Obaseki has to do with the loss of his $133m Secure Anchorage Area (SAA) contract operated by his company, Ocean Marine Solutions (OMS), for which he blames the governor. Looking at the issues, it is even an insult on former governor Oshiomhole for anybody or group of persons to suggest that he cannot on his own fight his political cause without enlisting Okunbo’s support. From his accounts, he heard about Obaseki having issues with his benefactor Oshiomhole and he was disturbed about the development to the extent of calling for a truce in the interest and development of Edo state. What has Okunbo done wrong in that regard? Secondly, on the issue of Secure Anchorage Area involving Okunbo-owned OMS and the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), it was an issue Obaseki orchestrated and there is no need to revisit it again because the Edo-born businessman has since moved on as posterity will judge everyone. “As God would have it, while in the company of some friends in the governor’s house in Benin, on one occasion, I confronted him that he was the one behind the attack on my company.  In a bid to defend himself, he put a call through to someone in Lagos and, perhaps, mistakenly, left the phone speaker on.  He asked the person at the other end: ‘Why is the MD of NPA worrying Captain?’ and the man replied: ‘Godwin, I thought you said this man was fighting you.  The MD of NPA is fighting your battle for you’.  I quickly told him that I had caught him. On this occasion, I had witnesses and, if further probed, names could be mentioned,” Okunbo averred. True to Okunbo’s character, he has, regardless of this very unpleasant experience, remained a lover and promoter of peace and will continue to be at peace with himself and most members of the society, but which by the Obaseki’s actions and inactions, it has become impossible. Okunbo’s contributions to peace, progress and visible development of the economy of Edo state pursuant to a collective aspirations and shared commitments remain a fait accompli. He maintained that these contributions are self-sacrificing without necessarily expecting any iota of reciprocal gesture or patronage from the Government of Edo State. According to him, to be sure, he stated the facts of matters as they are to the best of his ability, good conscience and the fear of God. It is therefore in this context that he set out to address contending issues in the Open Letter to Mr. President. He explained that pursuant to his personal convictions and without any fear of contradictions, he has solidly supported the administration of Governor Godwin Obaseki without employing rhetoric but verifiable evidence of actuality in the last three years of the administration. Okunbo listed what he called modest contributions of solidarity to include but not limited to:  In 2016, on assumption of office, he met with Obaseki to discuss several ways of driving foreign investment and ultimately making Edo State an investment hub and consequently he sponsored the Governor and his team of officials on an investment pathfinder’s trip to China. Secondly, as a show of reinforcement of solidarity for the Governor’s mandate when he (Okunbo) was invited to the Edo Convention in Toronto, Canada, he again demonstrated his support for the Governor by his speech where he encouraged everyone to support Obaseki administration and also, on that occasion, donated five houses worth N50m to support his housing project located in Benin city towards helping fellow Edo brothers and sisters in the Diaspora. Also, Okunbo’s advocacy to the political class and other critical Edo stakeholders  on the need to embrace the virtue of patience with Governor Obaseki as he settled down for governance and infrastructure development remains legendary. And recently, he joined some well-meaning sons and daughters of  Edo state to donate generously to the Governor’s COVID-19 relief fund. How more supportive could he have been? From the foregoing, it is crystal clear that Obaseki has picked on a wrong person as his enemy because Okunbo is not an enemy of Obaseki and he will not be one. The governor is simply envious of Okunbo’s goodwill among the business and political class of Edo. Obaseki rejected the businessman’s words of wisdom on issues of governance and politics only to now resort to fighting him without a just cause. According to Okunbo, Obaseki rejected his proposal on his faceoff with the then national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Oshiomhole and he (Obaseki) insisted politicians were rogues and would not patronise them or see them in Government House. “He emphasized he would not be moved an inch about their responses or feelings on this particular issue, reiterating he did not need their support either. He told me clearly that he was not interested in pursuing any SECOND TERM agenda,” Okunbo said. But what manner of politician is Obaseki, who after eating his political goodwill cake will want to have it all cost because the judgement day of election is near? It is also interesting to know that the Deputy Governor Philip Shuaibu, who Okunbo said he has always known as Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s political son, did not, on his part, help matters. He revealed that while efforts were on by various personalities for reconciliation, he announced that Comrade Oshiomhole should be arrested by the Police. What a way of adding fuel to fire? Following a series of what Okunbo called “very disturbing, ugly and unacceptable developments”, he decided to hands off the matter. Indeed, he had done all he could possibly do to engender a peaceful atmosphere for governance and development of our dear Edo state. One thing struck me – the fact that Dr. Okunbo had to swear on this matter: “To God, my Father in Heaven, I am speaking the truth and will have no reason whatsoever to do otherwise. I am blessed beyond measure and expectations to His Glory. My pedigrees remain an integral influence on my conduct and character.” I have the reasons in this world to believe him accordingly and I can reiterate here again that Obaseki is fighting the wrong person, who does not deserve the treatment being meted out to him. Meanwhile, Okunbo also gave his own reasons as to why he is being targeted by the agents of Edo state government. One is his presumed aspiration to contest the 2020 Edo governorship election even though he was never disposed to the idea; and the exposed orchestrated face-off between NPA and his OMS as highlighted earlier above. “I believe, on getting this hint, the Governor decided to bare his full fangs, seeking to tear me apart. He did not want me to run for the position; yet he never sat with me at any point in time to solicit for my support and vote for his second term bid,” Okunbo said. Also, besides the fact that Obaseki was divinely exposed as the mastermind of the NPA-OMS faceoff, the governor as the Chair of the National Economic Council’s Ad-Hoc Committee on Oil Theft and Pipeline Vandalism was going to turn in a damaging report about Okunbo’s company through the Committee and he got the feeler. “I was then given an opportunity to address the Committee on the matter to defend my company and its job.  My defence was excellently delivered, but at the end of the day, when the report came out, it was still damaging even when I had complied with my threshold and responsibilities. “It is sad that Governor Obaseki has been paranoid about me even before he became governor, for reasons best known to him,” Okunbo lamented. He continued that he has since got to know that the disagreements between Comrade Oshiomhole and him during his eight-year administration of the former in Edo State were orchestrated from the background by Obaseki who was at the time chairman of Oshimhole’s Economic and Strategy Team. “But with patience, maturity and forgiveness from Oshiomhole and myself, we were able to, once again, rekindle the spirit of brotherhood and trust in our relationship,” he added. It is now left for Obaseki to change his tune by embracing peace with concerned stakeholders and eschew politics of bitterness in order to engender peace and development in Edo state. I rest my case! – Okojie, a public affairs commentator,  wrote in from Benin City. 