…says corruption in NDDC since inception has nosedived The House of Representatives Peoples Democratic Party, PDP caucus on Sunday advised the National Assembly to immediately take back its independence from the executive arm of government before the country becomes rudderless. The caucus apparently worried by recent developments in the country asked President Muhammadu Buhari to step up governance or relevant sections in the 1999 constitution as amended of the Federal Republic or risk impeachment. This was contained in a statement titled: “Deliberate and calculated blackmail of the National Assembly by the Executive Arm of Government; call for action’ signed by Rep Kingsley Chinda asking the National Assembly to take back its independence from the executive. The caucus raised issues bordering on the state of insecurity in the country, the rate of unemployment, the disrespect for the parliament by appointees of the executive, and several others. Speaking on the recent spat between an official of the NDDC and the Reps Committee, Chinda said; “A few days ago, the Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Daniel Pondei, walked out on the Committee of the House of Representatives charged with the responsibility of investigating the financial scandal that has rocked the Commission. Again, regardless of his reasons, a walkout on the Parliament is inexcusable. “The three arms of government are empowered to work in sync, within the bounds of the basic law, and deliver on the responsibilities and mandates assigned to them by the Constitution. No one arm is superior to the other. However, the Executive arm has gone about itself like the Leviathan, taking the legislature and judiciary prisoners. This should not be so in a constitutional democracy in which the Constitution is held out as inviolate and inviolable. To hijack other arms of government, supplant them into obsequious rubber stamps arms, is to subvert the Constitution. “If the totalizing and unconscionable behaviours of members of the Executive arm enhance governance in our country, our position here would have been made tenuous by the fact of the good governance that their misbehaviours enthrone; but it is not the case.”