The National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD), has threaten to resume strike on 17th of August, over what they described as government’s failure to meet their demands. The threat was contained in a communique issued at the end of the National Executive Council meeting (NEC) and scientific conference of the association, with the theme: Targeted violence against health care workers in Nigeria’s health care facilities: Effects on health care service delivery, held virtually from 20th to 25th July 2020. NARD had suspended its indefinite strike which started on June 15, after a meeting between the association and Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) in Abuja, on June 20. According to the communique signed by  NARD President, Dr Aliyu Sokomba and its National Secretary, Dr. Bilqis Muhammad, the association said it has resolved to “extend the suspension of our strike action by 3-weeks to give government time to address our demands, failure of which will leave us with no choice other than to resume the suspended strike on Monday the 17th of August 2020. “NEC noted with dismay the continued administrative rascality and victimization of her members by the Chief Medical Director of University of Port Harcourt Teaching Hospital. And frowned at the undue suspension of resident doctors, who also double as the legitimate executive council officers of ARD UPTH. “NEC demands that various hospitals should be provided with the necessary infrastructures and sustain the provision of the needed personal protective equipment and funding of various tertiary health institutions. “Though the Medical residency training funding has been captured in the revised 2020 budget and signed by the President of the FRN, the implementation of the funding is yet to commence. “NEC noted that the COVID-19 Hazard allowance payment was commenced and subsequently abandoned abruptly immediately the NARD strike was suspended “NEC noted the initial intervention of the House Committee on Insurance in addressing the non-payment /non enrolment of resident doctors for Life insurance which has now been abandoned. NEC noted with dismay nonpayment of the salary shortfall for 2014-2016 despite promises by several stakeholders to intervene which led to suspending the strike action. “On the State Tertiary Health Institution, NEC noted the non-implementation of the MRTA by some state governments and poor remuneration of state health workers. NEC observed non-payment of arrears of consequential adjustment of new minimum wage to her members.” The association therefore demanded that various hospitals should be provided with the funds they need to run the hospitals and sustain the provision of the needed personal protective equipment in the hospitals It demanded the immediate implementation and funding of the medical residency training act as agreed as well as payment of salary shortfall to her members and immediate payment of the arrears consequential adjustment of the new minimum wage owed some doctors. It also called on the federal government and national assembly to investigate and look into the non-enrollment of health care workers for the group life insurance, and non-payment of death in service benefit to the next of kin of our fallen heroes despite claims of payment to insurance companies while also calling on state government to implement the Medical Residency Training Act and to ensure adequate remuneration of state health workers. 