After the intervention of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), to restore evacuation of cargoes out of the ports, the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) has finally moved over 320 containers of export cargoes into Apapa port. Recall that the export cargoes were trapped at various garages and access roads across the seaports due to the non-clearing of cargoes by importers inside the terminals at the seaports occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Because of this, Nigerian Shippers’ Council intervened by drafting a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that will make cargo evacuation between APM Terminals and NRC efficient for movement of imports out of the Lagos seaport and export cargoes for sailing out of the country. However, since the signing of the SOP being monitored by the Council, the movement of export cargoes to the Apapa port has increased thereby increasing Customs earnings astronomically as disclosed by the Customs area controller of the Command, Compt. Abba Kura. Speaking exclusively to LEADERSHIP, the Lagos Railway district manager, Jerry Oche said the corporation has moved over 320 export laden containers to APM Terminal for shipping out of the country. “Approximately, we have done nothing less than 200 40ft’ containers for export since we relaunched the train service. That is, we have done about eight rakes. We have 150 and 160 evacuation of exports and most export comes in 20ft,” he said. “So, we have done double of 160 and we have done more export because of exigencies. The containers have been on ground for many months and they have to get to the port so they can sail it out of the country. “We prioritise exports now because we have to get a way to put them onboard vessels. From the last report I got on Friday, I have only two rakes of empty in all the terminals that I am yet to take in.” Oche also disclosed further that for the evacuation to be faster and efficient, the corporation has suggested to APMT to stack containers on the rail sidings. “We have rail siding which is where we have the track. We are in discussion with APMT that on the rail siding they should give us cargoes for the whole week. For instance, we give APMT 10 trips a week and that is 19 containers per trip. “So, we ask for 190 containers to be stacked on the rail sidings so when the train comes in to drop the empty, it also pick the import and pull out immediately. That will make it faster.” In a related development, the Apapa command of Customs said it generated N52.369 billion from export trade between January and June 2020. The exported goods include: agricultural products, mineral resources and steel bars, amongst others. Speaking in Lagos over the weekend, the area controller of the Command, Comptroller Muhammed Abba-Kura said that the total of the goods exported through Apapa port abroad stood at 1.642 million tonnes with Free On Board (FOB) value. On the revenue, he said there is a steady improvement in revenue collection all through the half of the year except for the month of May, which recorded a decline of about N3.531 billion when compared between year 2019 and 2020. According to him, the command in the first half year of 2019 collected a total sum of N203.264 billion as Customs duty and others like seven per cent surcharge, VAT, one per cent Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme (CISS), among others. Abba-Kura said the N227.3 billion the command collected between January and June 2020 represent an increase of N24.082 billion or 10.59 per cent increase from the previous year. In this regard, he reiterated that the command’s collective resolve to enforce the federal government’s Fiscal Policy measures had yielded the desired results as could be seen from the revenue Profile. He added that the command’s secondary layers of checks and balances have contributed immensely in recovering lost revenues that escaped the first layer in one way or the other. Speaking on smuggling, he said, “The command has seized a total of 142 containers of various items worth N15.904 billion. The breakdown includes two assorted vehicles, which is one Rolls Royce 2018 and one Lamborghini Hurracane Sport Car 2019. “Others includes, pharmaceuticals, bags of rice, used clothing and shoes, vegetable oil, vehicles, packaging materials, detergents, candy milk, used tyres, cigarette fitter, rug and textile materials respectively.” Abba-Kura therefore, urged stakeholders, importers, exporters and their agents to always follow observe the laid down import and export guidelines and procedures and make sincere declarations in order to avoid their consignments being forfeited to the federal government. He said, “In addition to seizing these goods, we have equally invoked the provisions of section 167 of CEMA, which deals with detention, seizure and condemnation of goods. All seized items have been condemned by a court of competent jurisdiction Federal High Court and have now become the properties of federal government of Nigeria.