Barely 24 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari ordered a speedy and coordinated probe of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the House of Representatives yesterday issued fresh summons on the minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio and the acting managing director of the commission, Prof Kemerbrandikumo Pondei. The House committee on NDDC also interrogated the commission’s former acting managing director of the NDDC, Joy Nunieh, who testified virtually that there was no forensic audit going on in the commission. She urged Nigerians to confirm for themselves, saying they should disregard every testimony and allegations she had made if the find out that there was forensic audit going on in the commission. Following the committee’s invitation, the duo of Akpabio and Pondei are to appear before the lawmakers on Monday unfailingly to respond to allegations of financial irregularities in the spending of about N81.5 billion by the commission. While Akpabio was yet to honour the invitation of the committee in the last three days, Pondei who alongside other members of the NDDC IMC had appeared before the committee on Thursday had walked out on the lawmakers after expressing lack of confidence in the leadership of the Committee. The IMC specifically noted that chairman of the House committee, Hon Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo, was an interested party in the probe, having been accused of several criminal allegations by the NDDC. To ensure that the fresh summons for Akpabio and Pondei is obeyed, the committee resolved to in addition to an invitation letter serve the notice through the media. Several allegations of alleged financial malfeasance were leveled against Akpabio and the acting managing director by the former acting MD of the NDDC, Nunieh. She was supposed to appear before the committee on Thursday but was prevented by policemen who laid a siege to her Port Harcourt residence. Nunieh told the lawmakers yesterday that she only spent N8billion during her tenure in the interventionist agency. Nunieh who testified virtually was managing director of the NDDC between October 29 2019 and February 23,2020. According to her, although the objective of the IMC was to supervise the forensic audit, there is no forensic audit going on at the interventionist agency at the moment. She noted that no reputable auditing firm in Nigeria is among the nine sub-auditing firms already engaged to carry out the job. She said, “The issue is that everyone in Nigeria has been deceived that the forensic audit is going on. I want to say here that if Nigerians find out that the forensic audit is going on every testimony and allegations that I have made should be canceled and disregarded. “There is no forensic audit going on.  Out of the nine companies on that list, none of our major auditing companies in Nigeria is on that list. Secondly, can I say that the forensic auditors have been procured? My answer is no.” The former acting managing director, who made several allegations against Akpabio, stated that one of the cases of insubordination preferred against her was refusing to follow the minister to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting to defend the issue of the forensic audit. She recommended that the NDDC be returned to the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, noting that the commission was free of scandal when it was under SGF’s supervision. Nunieh stated: “To Senator Akpabio, he felt the president had delegated all the powers to him. He felt he also had the powers of the board. There must be a reorientation for the minister. We didn’t have this problem from the records I saw when the NDDC was under the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. The NDDC, I will recommend, should be taken back to the office of the SGF. “The president had written a letter to the National Assembly appointing the forensic and suspending the appointment of the board. In that letter the president said that he was appointing the IMC to supervise the forensic audit. That was the reason he was bringing in the IMC. “What I met wasn’t exactly what was going on; the minister, Akpabio, insisted that he will supervise the forensic audit.  I reminded him and showed him a letter that the president had written. There’s no way that we can spend the money that’s in our budget. “He requested in his memo to the president that money for the funding of the forensic audit be gotten from the service-wide votes. President Buhari, in his wisdom, refused that request and in writing said that it should be put in the NDDC appropriation budget, making NDDC the procuring entity. “Can I now stand before this committee to say that the lead consultant has been procured? My answer will be no. Remember you cannot give any approval or procure any consultant without the appropriation made by the National Assembly. The 2020 budget hasn’t even been considered or discussed not to mention being passed. “They don’t have approval, which was one of the reasons I refused to go before FEC. It was one of the issues of the insubordination because the act states that if I commit any offense it is five years imprisonment without an option of fine. So in going to FEC it will mean that I intentionally went there to obtain an approval under false pretenses knowing that the 2020 budget has not been passed and also knowing that it was criminal and anticipatory.” Also, Mr Johnson Kolawole, the Head, Directorate of Research and Programmes, Act for Positive Transformation Initiative, an NGO, accused the NDDC IMC of gross abuse of budget implementation process. He stated that the IMC had expended over N80billion between January 2020 and May 2020 as against the N22billion repeatedly portrayed by the IMC.  Wike Must Hand Nunieh Over To Us – Police Meanwhile, the Rivers State commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, has advised the state governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, to hand over the immediate-past acting managing director of the NDDC, Joy Nunieh, to the Police. Wike had on Thursday rescued Nunieh and took her to Government House, Port Harcourt, following the alleged invasion of her residence by operatives of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) monitoring team. But addressing journalists in Port Harcourt yesterday, Mukan, said apart from exchange of correspondences, he has personally reached out to the governor to turn in the former NDDC boss. The Police commissioner said, “It is really unfortunate because under normal circumstances, if His Excellency is saying that he went to rescue her, under normal circumstance, he is supposed to turn her over to me. “I am the commissioner of Police on ground and I will be in a better position to protect her than for him to take her to Government House. Nobody said he should not protect his citizens, but everything should be done within the confines of the law. I am the chief law enforcement officer of the Command. “So, if you rescue your citizen, we expect you to turn her over to the Police who are in a better position to protect her. We still believe that he is going to turn her over because the exercise was legitimate, it was within the confines of the law. “We have exchanged correspondences but I have gotten in touch personally with the governor and advised him to turn her over.” Mukan stated that the operation of the IGP’s monitoring team to the state was not illegal as their visit to the former NDDC boss’ residence was duly endorsed by him. He said, “The officers were on legitimate duty to this Command. They came in with their investigation activities to which we endorsed and gave go ahead and they did what they did yesterday. It was never am illegal duty. It was a legitimate duty from the IGP Monitoring Unit of which we were aware of their presence. “What you people don’t seem to understand is that it is not in every situation that you need a warrant of arrest. There are situations that you can arrest without warrant. Then, as a follow-up, that one can be issued. “So, the fact that they did not have a warrant of arrest at that moment did not make the whole exercise illegal. It is very legitimate; it is within the confines of the Constitution. “We didn’t know if she was going to give a submission in Abuja but as far as we are concerned, there was a petition against her which the officers were investigating and they came to invite her, which has nothing to do with the issue at the National Assembly.”  Probe Can’t Yield Result With Akpabio, IMC Still In charge – PDP Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately suspend the minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, following fraud allegations against him in the corruption saga rocking the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The party also asked President Buhari to immediately disband the corruption-ridden Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the NDDC where officials have been accused of engaging in unbridled looting of funds meant for the development of the area under the Buhari administration. The PDP in a statement by its national spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, said with the unearthing of rampant corruption, treasury looting, recklessness and manifest public unruliness of the NDDC management, the minister and the IMC have become a huge embarrassment not only to the Buhari administration but also to the Niger Delta region and the nation at large. The party insisted that though President Buhari has ordered a “speedy and coordinated investigation” of the activities of the NDDC management, such an important probe cannot yield any credible result as long as Senator Akpabio and indicted IMC are still in charge in the commission. The PDP stated that the immediate suspension of the minister and members of the IMC is the only way to ensure that such individuals do not interfere with investigations or tamper with vital documents. The party held that the suspension should be a prelude to unhindered investigation and prosecution of all those indicted in the wholesale fraud in the NDDC which has hindered the commission from delivering its mandate to the people of the Niger Delta region under the current administration. “Our party invites President Buhari to note that already, there are manifest efforts to frustrate investigations into the NDDC activities as witnessed in the attempt to abduct and silence the whistle blower, former acting Managing Director of the NDDC, Joi Nunieh, to prevent her from further exposing the alleged corrupt conduct of the embattled minister and the IMC”.