In a process which brings back fond memories from season one, Nigerians, especially cement consumers are in for another jolly time, as Dangote Cement Plc rewards its consumers with various prizes, OLUSHOLA BELLO reports. Dangote Cement Plc, Nigeria’s leading cement manufacturer unveils season two of its Bag of Goodies national consumer promo to reward its consumers with various mouthwatering prizes. The people who put their hands in their pockets for your goods and services are your only source of revenue. So it pays to think of them as vital investments that you can plan, make and then nurture over the long term. As a viable business, Dangote recognises the importance of every member of its value chain, distributors, wholesalers and retailers, as such it has invested in growing their businesses through various empowerment schemes. One of such empowerment schemes, which is having a direct impact on its consumers is the popular ‘Dangote Cement Promo.’ The Dangote ‘Bag of Goodies one and two’ consumer promos are huge investments aimed at rewarding new and existing consumers to enhance their lives, livelihoods and businesses. For instance, previous winners of star prizes in the Bag of Goodies national consumer promo season one, done by Dangote Cement in 2019 , are still joyfully counting their gains and how their lives and businesses have changed within one year of their wins. The star winners, among the 40 lucky individuals across Nigeria who were each presented with a brand new saloon car for their wins in the season one promo, have also commended the cement manufacturing giant and its chairman, Aliko Dangote for transforming their lives for participating in a promo unveiled to improve the lives of 21 million citizens through various prizes won. A contractor in Ilorin, Kwara State, Mr Awojobi Olusegun, who also won a star prize in season one, said the car has added 100 per cent value to his life, business, and his family, and brought more clients to his business. He said since he won the car, he has become well respected in his societ “People who were not interested in transacting business with me are now doing so because of the branded Dangote Cement car prize. God has used Dangote to save me and my family. I want to use this opportunity to thank Alhaji Aliko Dangote and the entire management of Dangote Cement for giving me the opportunity to own a car. I will like to participate in any of their promo in the future.” Olusegun encouraged people to continue to patronise Dangote Cement, describing it as one of the best brands in Africa. “Dangote Cement is the best in the country. The product is second to none in the country. The company takes care of its consumers and ensures they benefit from its generosity all the time. Dangote products remain the best,” he added. In a related incident, an elated 64-year-old bricklayer, Mr Iyowun Ezekiel from Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, who also won a brand-new star prize of a GAC saloon car in Season 1, said that the car, which he won last year has changed his life and status in the society. Encouraged by the feedback from 2019 Bag of Goodies promo, the company has staged another promo tagged: ‘Dangote Bag of Goodies Promo 2’. The promotion, scheduled to run from July 15, to November 15, is expected to produce 1,000 millionaires within 16 weeks. Speaking on the process, the group managing director, Dangote Cement, Michel Puchercos, stated that consumers also stand a chance to win tricycles, motorcycles, television sets, refrigerators, Dangote Food Goodies packs, recharge cards and many other exciting gifts. According to him, to be a part of the promo, all the consumer needs to do is to buy any promo bag of Dangote Cement during promo period, pick out the scratch card inserted in the bag, scratch open the inserted card to see what you have won, go to the nearest redemption centre to collect your prize. “It is to reward valued consumers for their unflinching partnership in ensuring that our range of cement products remains today the first choice for construction purposes across the country,” he said. Puchercos added, “The prizes we are offering in the promo are specifically tailored towards changing the living standards of consumers who are the end users of our products. These prizes have great economic value as they can be used to kick off small scale businesses especially in the face of the COVID-19 global pandemic with many families losing their source of livelihood. “Dangote Cement ‘Bag of Goodies promo season two’ is to serve a dual purpose, allow consumers of our products to continue their projects while at the same time stand a chance of becoming a millionaire or proud winner of prizes such as tricycle, motorcycles, among other gifts.” Explaining the reason for the promo, Dangote Cement marketing director, Mrs Funmi Sanni, said consumers are an important and fundamental part of production without whom the company’s ability to remain in business becomes impossible. “To grow our business, we must constantly create value in terms of quality, product, service, competitive pricing and depositing in consumer’s emotional bank accounts in order to become their preferred choice of brand at the point of purchase. “As a business, we recognise the importance of every member of our value chain- distributors, wholesalers and retailers, as such; we have invested in growing their businesses through various empowerment schemes,” she said. Sanni added that rewarding new and existing consumers of Dangote Cement with life changing prizes remained the core values of the company. As the promo unfolds, consumers across Nigeria are in for a good time, and at what better period than when the economy is under attack from the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, which has brought the economies of both developed and developing nations to their knees. For Dangote Cement, the humane gesture behind the promo would go a long way to ensuring top-of-mind awareness among its old and new consumers, and this may just be the icing on the cake of a compassionate business.