Environmental Rights Action /Friends of the Earth in Nigeria (ERA/FoEN), has trained and educated students in Edo State on the effects of the environment degradation, and how the environment should be protected. Educating the participants, the Executive Director of ERA/Friends of the Earth Nigeria, Dr. Godwin Uyi Oko asserted that, at present in Nigeria there is a lot of environmental problems which includes, gas flaring, oil spillage, deforestation, climate change, waste bush burning, flooding, gully erosion and many others. Ojo made the statement at a one day youth event entitled: ”Youth Training workshop on Environmental Degradation and Field Monitoring and Reporting Skills Acquisition,” in Benin City, Edo State. He said almost all the environment in the Niger Delta has been destroyed and governments are adamant to sue the oil companies involved and bring them to book. “Today in Nigeria there is environmental problems. This event intend to teach the youth about how they can protect their environment.” Ojo disclosed that the role of environmental rights action is to help to deal with unwanted spillage from the petroleum in our community, due to the vandalism of oil pipelines adding  that environmental problems are interconnected and is cause by human beings, and they are harmful to the environment. Speaking on the Environmental Field Monitoring and reporting, Ojo said EFM is for people who have knowledge about the environment noting that in monitoring you must measure the magnitude of the environment you want to research. He said the key elements of the research work is authenticity, personal observation and the testimony recorded in the field. Ojo explains that most field work must be accompanied with photographs to tell the situation on ground. Emphasizing on a topic:” Environmental Protection and Challenges of Waste in Edo State, the Managing Director, Comp-Pros System Ltd, John Isa, said population is one of the greatest factors that caused environmental degradation. He explained that for human being to stay alive they must create wastes. Isa disclosed that we are supposed to separate our waste differently to enable the waste manager know which waste is good for recycle. He said recycled of waste helped to know the available resources to be used. John Isa added that, when wastes are separated, the refuses are used to fill land where people drugged in the past for building or they are used to fill gully sites. He said waste manager is not a cheap process but capital intensive. 