Vice president Yemi Osinbajo has asked the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to investigate allegations that he received N4 billion from the suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu. Reports had surfaced that Magu gave the vice president N4billion, while Osinbajo also allegedly gave instructions to Magu to release some of the recovered loots. In a petition dated July 8, 2020 and addressed to the IGP, the vice president, through his lawyer, Taiwo Osipitan, said Jackson Ude, publisher of the said report, will continue to publish the “false claims” on social media until an action for “criminal defamation” is commenced against him. Osinbajo’s lawyer noted that if the allegation is false after investigation, the IGP should initiate criminal proceedings against Ude. He said, “We act as Solicitors to Prof Yemi Osinbajo, the vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (“our Client”) and on whose instruction we write this petition against one Jackson Ude for criminal defamation. “These vicious and malicious publications are meant to achieve one objective only, to represent to his readership and others (Nigerians and foreigners) that our client is a dishonest and disloyal public officer and consequently unfit for the position of Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which he is occupying. “We are of the view that unless an action for criminal defamation is commenced against the said Mr Jackson Ude, he will continue to use his social media platform to publish materials that are false and criminally defamatory of our client’s reputation. “In view of the above, we humbly request that you cause the above allegations, made against our client, to be investigated and if the suggested investigation confirms our complaint of the falsehood of these allegations, to initiate criminal proceedings pursuant to the provisions of sections 391 – 395 of the penal code act for criminal defamation against the said Jackson Ude.” Meanwhile, the suspended acting chairman of the EFCC, Magu, yesterday, appeared before the Justice Ayo Salami – led presidential panel sitting inside the old banquet hall of the presidential villa. The appearance which is the fourth since the sitting began on Monday also saw the appearance of the secretary to the EFCC, Olanipekun Olukoyede and some directors. Right from the first day of the interrogation, Magu remained in police detention at the Force Criminal Investigation Department (FCID), Abuja. Magu appeared with his lawyer, Chief Kanu Agabi, SAN, a former attorney general of the Federation (AGF) and minister of Justice, who incidentally set up the EFCC during the administration of President Olusegun Obasanjo. He is facing 21 corruption allegations from the attorney general of the federation (AGF) and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. The panel had summoned the directors from the commission to give insight on some of the allegations against the embattled chairman. Over three weeks, the panel has been sitting and scrutinising the corruption allegations against the embattled chairman. Yesterday, secretary to the EFCC, Mr Olanipekun Olukoyede and the Directors of the commission appeared before the Presidential panel investigating corruption allegations against Magu. LEADERSHIP Friday gathered that the Justice Ayo Salami-led panel invited the top management officers of the commission to testify on some of the allegations against Magu. They were said to be grilled for hours over their knowledge of some of the allegations against the embattled EFCC boss. Magu is facing 21 corruption allegations from the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami.  Operatives Didn’t Search My House – Abdusalami Meanwhile, former head of state, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd) yesterday refuted media reports that his residence was searched by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The said report alleged the residence of the former Nigerian leader was searched in Minna, Niger State, on the orders of the embattled acting chairman of EFCC, Ibrahim Magu. But in a statement signed by his media adviser, Capt J Mfon (rtd), Abdulsalami noted that no search was conducted in Minna residence by EFCC or any security agency in the country. He recalled that in 2017 operatives of the Commission from Kano zone came to Minna to search a house in Tunga but the team ended up in his Guest House where they told the security officers on duty that they had instructions from their zonal head to search the property.’’ Abdusalami explained that the officers said since the numbering of houses in Tunga was haphazard, it must be a case of mistaken identity. He said when he contacted Magu, the EFCC boss said he was not aware of the operation.’ He noted that the EFCC team from Kano left after realising they came to the wrong address. The statement made available to LEADERSHIP Friday further noted: “His Excellency as a rule does not comment on media publications directed at or concerning him. He has taken this step in view of the reactions these reports are generating. “His Excellency felt the need to provide this important clarification due to the ongoing media frenzy insinuating His Excellency’s role in Magu’s issue,” it said.