Ekiti state has been rated high, in the 2018 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)-Conditional Grant Scheme (CGS) projects delivery. A team from the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDG’s, scored the state 93.6 per cent in terms of performance. The team from the Presidency, comprised Mr Liadi Lukman, a representative of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDG’s, and Mr Joseph Abiolu, a Federal Government appointed Consultant. Mr Abiolu, who spoke on behalf of the team, about its findings after inspecting the projects described by the state in the execution of 2018 SDGs-CGS projects, in four Local Government Areas of the State, as satisfactory. He commended the State Government, under Dr Kayode Fayemi, on the project quality and specification, which he said, earned the state high rating in the assessment. He particularly applauded the state government, for the appropriate time of delivery, effective monitoring of implementation process, display of transparency and accountability, in the utilization of the funds allocated to various SDGs-CGS projects designed for the year under reference. The projects, domiciled mostly in schools and hospitals, included supply of equipment, outright construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of dilapidated classrooms and Ward structures, toilets, boreholes, staff quarters, landscaping and interlocking among others. The projects are sited in four of the 16 Local Government areas of the state, including Ekiti South West, Ijero, Moba and Oye local government areas of the state respectively. Speaking during the inspection,, the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on SDG’s, Mrs Abimbola Solanke, attributed the success story recorded, to effective implementation strategy, deployed, in line with the policy thrust of the present administration under Gov Kayode Fayemi. According to her, it was also in fulfilment of the Governor’s electioneering promises to the people of Ekiti State, under his development objectives that made the SDG in the state to successfully deliver on its mandate. She assured other local governments that the projects would soon be extended to them, saying eight of the LGA’s, had in the past, benefitted from the programme, thereby leaving behind only four. Corroborating the SSA’s position, the Secretary of the State SDG’s , Mr Olukayode Adunmo, attributed the achievements to effective deployment of available human and material resources, in line with the Governor’s 100 per cent project delivery agenda and his zero tolerance for project abandonment. According to the Secretary, a total of 67 projects, in critical sectors of education, health , environment ,water and sanitation, in the four Local Government areas were handled, and that all the completed projects are to be officially handed over to the benefitting local councils and communities within the next couple of weeks.