Ahead of the All Progressive Congress ( APC) national convention to elect members of its National Working Committee (NWC), a non- governmental organization (NGO), Power Arc Media (PAM) has thrown their support for the retention of the position of the National Chairman in the South-south geopolitical zone. The Power Arc Media in a statement signed by his Director of operations, Mr. Tedd Avindigh, in Abuja, noted that reasoned that such a move would create disharmony, disaffection and may adversely affect the already troubled party. He added that the Power Arc Media, as an advocate of unity for development in the country is of the view that retaining the chairmanship of the APC in the South South Zone is the way to go as that would engender peace, unity and harmony in the party. He said the Immediate past National chairman of the party Adams Oshiomhole ( Edo) and his predecessor John Odigie- Oyegun (Edo) are both from the South South Zone but Insinuation is rife among some influential APC blocs to move the chairmanship position out of south south Zone. According to him, “Taking the National chairmanship position out of South South Zone at this time, they argued would create a sense of loss and would ultimately be counter productive to the party. “In the spirit of fairness, equity, justices and even development , they stressed that the position of APC national chairman remains in the South South geopolitical zone,” he said. The organization recalled that “It was the wisdom of the stakeholders of the party to Zone the office of the National Chairman of the party to entire South and to South South geopolitical zone in particular after the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to among other things create unity and national cohesion. “If the agitation by the South East geopolitical zone to have a shot at the number one position in 2023 is sustained and the South West Zone already had the Vice Presidential slot for eight years, it is only logical that the south south zone retains the position of the National chairman. “This, they said would balance the political equation and give every section of the country a sense of belonging”. He explained that South South would also be expected to do a further micro zoning which arguably Favours Cross River state . Edo state has had two consecutive chairmen , Rivers state just had the national chairman in Victor Giadom and Delta state has the incumbent Deputy President of the Senate. Akwa Ibom state has the Minister of Niger Delta Ministry as well as special Adviser on the Niger Delta affairs while Bayelsa has the minister of Petroleum. Adding that Cross River state seems to be the virgin land to produce the next national chairman of APC.