The leadership of the West Africa (ECOWAS) Youth Council (WAYC) has inducted a 24-year-old Nigerian, Ehigie Ikeakhe, as an Ambassador of the Council. The induction is a recognition of Ikeakhe’s spectacular entrepreneurial achievements as a business man, which is an inspiration to the youths of the modern Africa. According to a press statement released to the media by the chairperson of the Council, Amb. William-Ologun Oluwaseun, he said Ikeakhe was considered for the honour having met the requirements even as he urged the honouree not to rest on his oars. Speaking with LEADERSHIP thereafter, Amb. Oluwaseun said, “As enshrined in our mission statement, the WAYC is dedicated to the productive engagement of youths for the advancement of the human race. We are committed to ensuring favourable youth policies across the countries in the West Africa region.” “We considered Ehigie Ikeakhe as an Ambassador of the Council after meeting with the standard requirements of achieving same. He can now be addressed as Ambassador Ehigie. “We charge him to do more and not rest on his laurels. He should now increase the tempo and extend his youth empowerment and opportunities, philanthropical gesture and advocacy beyond Nigeria,” he said. “Ehigie Moses Ikeakhe has over the years shown tremendous commitment to youth empowerment and advocacy in Edo state and across Nigeria, not minding racial or religious background. Many youths have, through him, attained greater heights in their chosen careers. The WAYC chairman further added that the Council is recognising individuals such as Ehigie Moses who are shining figures across the region, adding that the Council’s Ambassadors represent everything it preaches and stands for. Reacting, Ambassador Ikeakhe said that the recognition came to him as a birthday present given that it concided with his 24th birthday anniversary and in his acceptance statement, he commended the entire Council for honouring him with the Treaty of Lagos, ECOWAS Leadership Award, which was created in 1975. “I am happy and intrigued with the efforts of the WAYC chairman in his outstanding leadership skills towards identifying and recognising individuals like myself and giving me more leadership responsibility to serve my people as I do to my business. “This award isn’t only for me but instead for all the Born Winners around me who have believed in me since from the inception. I specially owe this honour to my God and parents for standing behind me throughout the years. It is my personal responsibility to ensure that many talents grow through me, henceforth. I extend my humanitarian efforts as a clarion call,” Ikeakhe added.