Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal recently made a passionate call for a national arm amnesty. The governor, in his futuristic wisdom believes that could go a long way in reducing the current rave of insecurity ravaging the country. ANKELI EMMANUEL in this piece presents the analysis of the impulse of such clarion call Beyond the simulation of politics, the recent call by Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal for a national arms amnesty could at best go for a passionate national clarion call. Though, many might give diverse interpretations to such a call. This is even more so, that, insecurity in Nigeria has since inception, become a parameter for rating government as either failing on its responsibilities of protecting lives and properties rather than being viewed as a looming national disaster. The propensity to apportion blames and score cheap political mileage by leaders and stakeholders alike, coupled with the unnecessary conspiracy of silence by those that matter in the national sphere has therefore allowed the insecurity to fester for too long, thus making it a political discourse from the myopic lenses of many. This, therefore, has given insecurity a strong feather to fly on, to a point that no single part of the country is safe. Without mincing words, traversing the length and breadth of Nigeria lately is as good as purchasing a death ticket. This is so because you are exposed to the discourteous arms of either armed robbers, kidnappers or bandits. These devil incarnates (the perpetrators) now unleash their venom at will and on anybody, because they have access to dangerous weapons that are hitherto and still prohibited by law and common sense. Tambuwal in a deeper reflection on the future of Nigeria in the midst of such insecurity, recently decried that there seems to be more illegal arms in the hands of wrong people than there are in the confines of the nation’s security agencies. The second term governor of Sokoto State and Speaker, of the 7th National Assembly, Tambuwal averred that, the time is not only ripe for both the Presidency and the National Assembly to come up with stiffer measures such as death sentence or life imprisonment against possession of illegal Small and Light Weapons (SALWs) but insecurity must not be politicised for whatever reason. Speaking at an interactive session with students and youths in Sokoto State at the Sultan Maccido Institute of Quranic and General studies, Tambuwal wondered at the unimaginable proliferation of SALWs across the country. According to him, “There are more Small and Light Weapons in the hands of non-state actors across the country than there are in the hands of security operatives. Tambuwal thus observed, “There are more SALWs in the hands of nonstate actors across the country than there are in the hands of security operatives. “I am therefore appealing to the National Assembly and the Presidency to come up with a legislation that will prescribe a disarmament period in the country.” Giving examples of what the country stands to gain by this viewpoint, Tambuwal said, “Those in possession of unlicensed arms should go and register them and if the arms cannot be licensed, they should be surrendered to government and the government will pay you your money. “And after the grace period, a maximum punishment like death sentence or life imprisonment should be prescribed for unlawful possession of arms. This is the only way we will have peace in this country.” Tambuwal, while wondering how insecurity has gradually but steadily, like wild fire engulfed almost every region of the country, added that Nigeria has a grossly inadequate security personnel. While giving possible remedy, Tambuwal appealed for an urgent need to intensify recruitment of personnel, alongside improved remuneration and life insurance for security operatives in the country. Like the fair minded politician he is known for, Tambuwal commended the federal government for establishing the Police Trust Fund, which according to him if genuinely supported would go a long way in addressing a good number of the challenges faced by security personnel. Speaking on some of the measures being considered to tackle banditry in Sokoto, Tambuwal divulged that arrangements are in top gear to establish a state vigilante group which could be deployed to such troubled areas. The group, he explained would operate within the ambit of the law and in conjunction with the security agencies, so that they will not take the law into their hands. Tambuwal who also listed ignorance and climate change as some of the causes of insecurity in the state and country at large, affirmed that some of the bandits lacked even basic knowledge of Islam, hence completely ignorant of what the religion says on killing of innocent soul. A statement from the spokesperson of Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Muhammad Bello, quoted the governor as saying, “religious groups in the state should take their preaching to villages and other remote areas where it was needed the most, adding that education was vital to peace and development”. Tambuwal had also in another appeal to Nigerians said, issues of insecurity, health; development and religion must not be politicised if the country is to get it right. Reevaluating Tambuwal’s position in relation to insecurity in Nigeria, realistic observers will submit that, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal is not just the governor of Sokoto State, but one politician whose antecedents encapsulates national unity. From his stint at the National Assembly up until he became the Speaker of the 7th NASS, Tambuwal has distinguished himself in many fronts as a pan African and a confidant nationalist. These could be attested to by how he was able to cheerfully manage the once tumultuous NASS so brilliantly, that they were not only speaking with one voice in spite of political differences but ensured that the country above all other interests was sustained. Little wonder therefore, when his erstwhile political godfather and the immediate past governor of Sokoto State, now Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko announced Tambuwal as his successor, the state was thus considered very fortunate by those who know or hear about his political sagacity. This was because, the entire nation concluded that voting Tambuwal as Wamakko’s successor, will be one of the greatest things to happen to Sokoto State. Reasons for such conclusions from fans and even political opponents alike were not far-fetched. According to some, Tambuwal as Speaker was one of the strong voices against insecurity in Nigeria. The question however in the minds of many is why has the insecurity which he joined many other politicians to criticize during the days of former president Good luck Ebele Jonathan, continues to grow wings across the country and his state seriously affected lately? Responding to this near rhetorical question, the state Chapter of All progressives Congress (APC) in a press conference recently, accused governor Tambuwal of handling the issue of insecurity in Sokoto State with kid’s gloves. Speaking for the APC, its Sokoto State chapter chairman, Hon Isa Sadiq Achida averred that, Tambuwal has jettisoned the age long ward, district and local government security meetings, which hitherto helped to nip in the bud any signs of impending danger.