There was confusion in Ado Ekit on Monday, as some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members loyal to the former governor of Ekiti state, Mr Ayodele Fayose were seen engaging in alleged oath-taking. The party members, who are ward executives in the local government areas of the state, were seen in a video clip which has gone viral on the social media were seen taking oaths. This was considered to be a desperate move to prevent them from shifting allegiance and move to Senator Biodun Olujimi’s Repositioning group. The state chapter of the PDP has since been polarized, with the emergence of two factions loyal to Fayose and Olujimi, who are battling to take over the leadership of the party. In the video, which lasted for over five minutes, the PDP ward leaders pledged unflinching allegiance to Fayose and rained curses on themselves should they betray him. Each party executives, in the clip, after mentioning their names, then took turn to declare that; “If I betray Osokomole Ayo Fayose, may the ground swallow me.” Some of the party leaders who were identified in the video clip that took part in it include the former PDP Chairman in the state, Chief Bola Olu-Ojo, former member of the State House Assembly, Hon Dayo Akinleye Maxima and Mr Mike Adeosun. Others are, Mr Segun Ademile, Mr Aniyikaye Michael Ayo, Mr Olayiwola Oderinde, Princess Oriade Adefunke, Mr Ayo Komolafe, Mr Michael Ojo and Mrs Yemisi Fajuyi. The others were Mr Taye Olusile, Osalusi Niyi (Youth Leader), Oni Dada, Wale Owoeye, Dele Macauley, Mr Abiodun Olu, Kehinde Agbede, Olu Asiwaju, Adeola Adebayo, Kayode Olaleye and others. A source close to the party, who confided in journalists in Ado Ekiti said the party leaders were coerced into taking the oath. But the former PDP Chairman in the state, Chief Olu-Ojo while reacting to the video clip, denied indulging in any secret oath, describing the allegation as, “puerile and malicious”. Describing the oath-taking claim as mere conjectures and handiwork of some renegades in Ekiti PDP, Olu-ojo said “it was not oath-taking but affirmation of loyalty to our leader Fayose. “There was nothing secret about it. It was an open meeting. It was not an oath-taking because in the course of activities there was no Bible, Quran, Iron, blood and other objects to swear with. “It was an individual opinion. Nobody repeated anything after me. Everybody stated whatever they wanted to say on his or her own accord. There was no Special language while reading. It was individual words that were used. And we were making their pledges in the manner which is an affirmation”, he added.