From available data, there is no doubt that the incidence of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome(AIDS) and Human Immuno Deficiency Virus(HIV) is reducing significantly in the country due to the sustained and concerted efforts of the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) and other allied stakeholders both within and without. NACA, established in February 2000 during the Olusegun Obasanjo presidency, has a huge responsibility: to coordinate all activities concerned with the control of the epidemic of AIDs and HIV in the country. The mandate of the agency, which has now existed for two decades, include: formulate policies and guidelines on HIV and AIDS; support HIV and AIDS research in the country; plan and coordinate activities of the various sectors of the National Strategic Framework; Facilitate the engagement of all tiers of government and all sectors on issues of HIV and AIDS prevention, care and support, among others. Two decades after its establishment, it is only pertinent to ask how the agency has fared under various leaderships and management up till the time of Dr Aliyu Gambo, its current DG, who assumed leadership in 2019. The jury is out and the consensus among all critical stakeholders concerned with the management and control of AIDs and HIV in the country is that NACA has made some modest progress in spite of some minor hiccups here and there. By all accounts, the agency is a credible one going by the way it conducts its affairs. In fact, its reputation in financial prudence and management was what qualified it to be made the principal recipient of Global Fund grant to fight the scourge of COVID-19 pandemic in the country. After years of sheltering in a rented apartment, paying huge rents yearly, the agency has finally moved to its own permanent headquarters in Wuse, Abuja. It is needless to stress that this has saved a lot of money that would have been expended on paying rents. The fund saved on rents could be channelled into funding other projects that will help the agency actualize its overall objectives. The agency has also opened six zonal offices in the six geo-political zones of the country. The essence of this is to strengthen collaboration between NACA, SACAs and LACAs. The zonal offices will facilitate easier evaluation, monitoring and tracking of NACA’s activities in the states in each of the geopolitical zones unlike in the past where the central office in Abuja had to go round for such tasks. In order to enable 15, 251 Nigerian adolescents and youths access HIV preventive information, the agency under its current DG emplaced a National Call Centre via a collaboration with the Nigerian Communication Commission(NCC) through Unstructured Supplementary Service Data(USSD) and Short Message Service(SMS), gateway to enable the upgrade of the Call Centre to a multichannel platform for a broader reach and better coverage of the country with information on HIV and AIDs and other related services. The Call Centre is also being linked to various social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, e.t.c for better access to relevant information. No one can deny the vitality of seamless information flow about the management of AIDs and HIV activities in the country. Having a dedicated Call Centre in this regard can only be a quality addition to what the agency is doing in its quest to reduce the incidence of AIDs and HIV to the barest minimum in the country. Closely linked with the Call Centre in the information management scheme of the agency is the synergy it has maintained with print and electronic media in the country over the years which has continued to enhance HIV knowledge in the public space through regular personality and accountability profile on AIDs and HIV in the country. Fighting the epidemic of AIDs and HIV requires sustained and sustainable resource mobilization. In this regard, NACA has continued to strengthen HIV resource drive to states via increasing budgetary allocation for HIV. For example, the allocation increased from 7.4 per cent in 2018 to 10.7 per cent in 2019. Additionally, corporate entities in the private sector have also continued to help in resource drive through their contributions to the HIV Trust Fund for the purpose of ensuring HIV commodity security in the country. The private sector-led initiative is coordinated by the Nigerian Business Coalition Against AIDs(NiBuCAA). The overall goal is to create a sustainable financing mechanism for the National HIV Response driven by the private sector. One of the core mandates of NACA is carrying out research about HIV and AIDs in the country. To this end, in the last few years, the agency has emplaced plans to conduct researches on special studies for the sole purpose of better understanding the dynamics of the HIV epidemic with regards to the Integrated Behavioral and Biological Surveillance Survey(IBBSS) among key population of FSW, MSM, PWID and Transgerders(TGs) while the HIV Stigma Index Study seeks to measure stigma among people living with HIV. Courtesy of the quarterly meeting of the HIV and AIDS Research Retreat, the agency now reviewed and developed a new National HIV/AIDS Research Agenda(2018-2022) in line with emerging global HIV issues. Also, NACA has also undertaken a midterm review of the National Strategic Plan(NSP) 2017- 2021 and developed the National Strategic Framework raging from 2020 to 2025. The implementation of the country’s HIV Response draws inspiration from these strategic documents. NACA has an onerous undertaking to end the scourge of AIDS in the country by 2030. To actualize this, the agency is working on an HIV epidemic control by creating benchmarks for tracking based on available data which has defined a country roadmap on the roll-out of the defined monitoring strategies. In a similar vein, the agency has conducted a 6+1 USG supported states through the National Centre for Disease Control and ten states supported by the Global Fund through the Society for Family Health to obtain an accurate estimate of men who sleep with men(MSM), female sex workers(FSW), people who inject drugs(PWID). NACA under the leadership of Dr Gambo is leaving no stone unturned in the utilization of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to fight the epidemic of HIV. In doing this, there is the Electronic Medical Record(EMR) which is used to capture patient-level data real-time which is now uploaded into the National Data Repository(NDR) platform by various health care facilities. At the time of writing this, there have been about 90 per cent of the onboarded facilities reporting. Through the years, NACA has continued to strengthen its synergies and collaboration with major donors, implementing partners and civil society organizations through the Expanded Theme Group(ETG) meetings which facilitate coordination and review data for the HIV Response and discuss way forward on the resolutions of the National Council on AIDS. One major way to assess the impact of NACA in the overall management of HIV/AIDS in the country is to check the prevalence rate of the epidemic. Based on available records, it peaked at 5.8 per cent in 2001, dropped to 5percent in 2003, stabilized at 4.4 per cent in 2005, 4.6 per cent in 2008 and 4.1 per cent in 2010 and 3.0 per cent in 2014 with an estimated 3.2m people living with HIV(PLHIV). There has been a remarkable drop from the 3.0 per cent to 1.3 per cent and a burden of 1.8m PLHIV based on the Nigeria AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey(NAIIS). For those who are conversant with the management of AIDS/HIV in Nigeria, there is no iota of doubt that more of the people living with the virus(PLHIV) have had better access to antiretroviral drugs in the last few years. This is beyond debate as available data point in this direction. For example, the National HIV Programme has counselled and tested 7, 109, 423 individuals who received their results. Of these, 22, 964 HIV tested positive in 2019. As at Dec 2019, 1, 146, 643 adults and children with HIV infection on treatment in accordance with the nationally approved treatment protocol, an increase of 9.3 per cent from 1, 049, 019 in 2018. All said and done, with NACA, it is so far so good. It is one agency of government that has stood the test of time, weathering storms and conquering obstacles along the way as it continues to wage a formidable war against HIV/AIDS and other opportunistic infections in the country in order to meet its core mandate, objectives, mission and vision statements. In the advent of COVID-19 that has practically rendered the country comatose, it won’t be out of place to recommend the protocol and strategy of NACA deployed in the curtailment of HIV /AIDS to the National Centre for Disease Control(NCDC) and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 headed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). The protocol is scientific just as the strategy is result-oriented.