The pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere has called on President Muhammadu Buhari, to immediately sack the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, over his directive that schools should remain closed  in the country, until further notice. Addressing journalists in Akure, the state capital on Thursday, the Secretary General of the association, Bashorun Sehinde Arogbofa noted that Adamu is planning to ground education for a year across the country with the directive. Adamu Adamu had on Wednesday said, in Abuja, that the school should remain shut  until the coronavirus disease was brought under control. Also, the Minister of State for Education,  Emeka Nwajiuba had earlier announced that the 2020 WASSCE conducted by WAEC would hold between August and September while the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 directed all the schools to resume for only graduating pupils but the Adamu’s order had reversed all the directives Arogbofa who maintained that the Federal Government should have allowed pupils to be back in school, noted that the Federal Government should find means of protecting them against the spread of deadly coronavirus disease. Arogbofa said, the minister cannot bring our school system back to the Stone Age. According to him, “Adamu Adamu should be sacked. They had about six months to plan for these children, what did they do? The last six months all these children have been preparing for the WASCE, what did the Federal Government do? “I think the two ministers in the ministry should go, why would one say the pupil should resume to write their paper in August and the other minister would come and reverse the order and that the school would be closed down for the whole year . “It is reality that the COVID-19 is in the country but they should have envisaged what will happen and make necessary arrangements against it for the pupils. Why should education be closed down for a whole year? “It means the two of them (Adamu and the Minister of State for Education) don’t know what they are doing, so they should go.” 