Chairman of Ocean Marine Solution (OMS), Captain Idahosa Wells Okunbo (Capt, Hosa) has served notice on the Edo State government on his intention to proceed to court for alleged libelous and defamatory publications against him. In a letter by his counsel, Dr Oladapo Olanipekun (SAN),  dated July 20, 2020 and referenced EM/OAG/02/2020, which was addressed to the Edo State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof Yinka Omorogbe, Capt Hosa demanded a retraction of the said publications and a N2 billion as damages. He also demanded that the state government and/or its representatives should cease and desist from making any further libelous and defamatory publications against him. Not done, the billionaire businessman demanded the sum of N2 billion for the “embarrassment, inconvenience, losses and damages done to his person, character and interests” as a result of the “mischievous, malicious and misleading publications.” In the four-page letter, Olanipekun said that “On Monday, 20 July, 2020, publications captioned “Okunbo, Oshiomhole making plans to disrupt Edo governorship elections”, appeared on pages 26 of The Punch and 53 of THISDAY. “The said publications bear the insignia/mark of the Edo State Government and was signed by Crusoe Osagie, designated as Special Adviser, Media and Communication Strategy (to the Governor), Edo State Government. “The thrust of the captions and publications referred to above is expressed and reflected in some of the abstracts/excerpts below: “…a Benin billionaire, Captain Hosa Okunbo, held a meeting on July 19, 2020, where they perfected plans to recruit thugs to disrupt the forthcoming September 19 governorship election in the State, having discovered that they cannot win the election in a fair contest. “…they met with these thugs, gave them targets and paid them in advance to cause trouble and undermine the will of the people during the election. “…Okunbo is a key figure in the gang-up to take Edo backward.  He is actively supporting and sponsoring warlords, thugs and ill-intentioned politicians that are scheming to dislodge Governor Obaseki so they can have free access to the State’s treasury. “We are therefore calling on security agencies to quickly intervene, investigate and rein in Okunbo in his quest to set the State ablaze.” Olanipekun said that “arising from the foregoing, the captions and publications are most unfortunate, inaccurate, misleading, malicious, unfair, defamatory, libelous and incriminating. According to him, “You are aware that our client is one of the most prominent citizens of Edo State and, indeed, a foremost Nigerian.  He is an accomplished businessman, whose interests and achievements, transcend Edo State and Nigeria.