The Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), under the
leadership of its President-General, His Eminence, the Sultan of
Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, has commended the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on the guidelines for the non-interest version of all
its intervention programmes. The Sultan in a statement titled: “Nigerian Muslims and the
Interventions of the Central Bank of Nigeria”, signed by the Deputy
Secretary-general, NSCIA, Prof. Salisu Shehu viewed the integration as
a welcome development, a bold step towards engendering inclusive
growth and a proactive mechanism for averting a looming recession
threatening the global economy as a consequence of the COVID-19
pandemic. While calling for the effective implementation of the guidelines,
Sultan congratulated the CBN and by extension the federal government
for achieving the remarkable milestone. The NSCIA suggested that, given the indispensability of financial
literacy to achieving financial inclusion and economic recovery and
growth, the CBN should use all relevant agencies and avenues,
including the networks of the National Orientation Agency, radio and
television programmes, among others, to educate the public on the
importance of these interventions, and the procedures for accessing
them. “The procedures should be made as accessible as possible to enable
even the poorest of the poor to benefit from the schemes”, he said. Meanwhile, as a step towards assisting the federal government and the CBN in
achieving the success of the post-pandemic economic recovery, His
Eminence, the President General of NSCIA, directed all state councils
of Islamic Affairs, as well as all other Islamic organisations to
design and implement sensitisation and mobilisation programmes for
farmers, businessmen, and other eligible citizens. He added that Imams and the ‘Ulama’ should use their sermons,
lectures, lessons, radio and television programmes to educate the
Muslim community on the imperative of utilising the interventions. To this end, he directed all state councils to, after studying the
details of the guidelines, organise trainings for Imams, ‘Ulama’,
leaders of Islamic organisations, trade unions and farmers
associations, as well as other key stakeholders, on the value and
procedures of accessing these important interventions. The Sultan advised Nigerians to take the new initiative as a rare
opportunity, and optimally utilise it for actualisation of productive
purposes it is meant to serve, keeping in mind that this is not free
money.
The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) had released the guidelines for the
non-interest version of all its intervention programmes.
The initiative covers the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP),
Agri-Business, Small and Medium Enterprises Investment Scheme
(AGSMEIS), Creative Industry Financing Initiative, Micro, Small and
Medium Enterprise Development Fund, Real Sector Support Facility
(RSSF) and Credit Support for the Healthcare Sector.