A Non-governmental Organisation (NGO), under the platform of Save The Soul Spring Foundation, has called on the federal government to support the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Skill Aquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Training to address the issues of job creation in Nigeria. In a statement issued by the President of the foundation, Comrade, Ogunkuade Oluwatosin in Abuja. He Said, “During the entire one year compulsory service, the participants are well-exposed to the SAED. Scrapping or suspending it will take the shine off the programme and adversaries who want the Scheme dead would have succeeded, God forbids. “Corps Members who have acquired various skills on camp should be beneficiaries of COVID-19 Response Support Programs and Stimulus Plan such as support from African Development Bank (AFDB), Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), United Nations (UN) and other world donors. “This can help them to create job through Small Medium Enterprises amidst job cut and dwindling economy. we have unshaken faith in the 47 years of unblemished services by NYSC Directorate that have built Nigerian youths and overcome several obstacles. “We believe that given the necessary supports and adequate encouragement, Management and Staff in all the Offices of the Scheme will effectively and successfully operate safe and secured Camps across the nation,” he said. On the proposes plans to suspend the National Youth Service Orientation Camps, he said that the existing protocols and health advisories about the pandemic are should be extended to the Camps. “Also while provisions are made for medical personnel, paramedics PPE, hand-washing facilities, sanitisers and if possible, isolation centres and other equipment for the prevention of the spread of the dreaded virus and treatment of those who might be unavoidably but inadvertently infected. “We also implore the Federal Government to at this crucial time develop more interest in NYSC Skill Aquisition and Entrepreneurship Development (SAED) Training,” he added