Edo state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tuesday inaugurated its Campaign Council calling for peaceful and issues based campaigns even as it urged parents to ensure they do not allow they wards to used for violence. Acting state chairman of the party, Col David Imuse (rtd) while inaugurating the council called on Edo state people to ask Governor Godwin Obaseki how much he has received as allocation what he has done with the money. The council has Major General Cecil Esekhaigbe (rtd) as Director General, former Deputy Governor, Hon Lucky Imasuen as the Deputy Director General while immediate past Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon Pally Iriase is Secretary of the Council. Esekhaigbe (rtd) said God has ordained the victory of the APC and its candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. He said: “I will advise parents to hold their wards and admonish them that this time is not a joke. Insecurity is synonymous with our dear state as at today but I want to assure you that with Ize-Iyamu as governor, he already has the template for security this he will implement.  Ize-Iymau will give the government of Edo people to Edo people. “I want to thank you for making me the Isaiah of our time because God asked who will go for us and Isaiah stepped out and said send me Lord I will go it is in this spirit that I accepted to prosecute this campaign to its logical conclusion, our mission is very clear ad definitive to reclaim Osadebey Avenue and God is telling Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the governor of Edo state come November 12 2020. “There is going to be paradigm shift in this campaign, we are not going to base our issues on insults and provocative words because when the go low, we are going g to go very high. In this vein, we have a candidate who has a track record of what it takes to govern a state because he has passed through the tutelage of governance and there is nothing except for God to anoint him to do it himself this time. On his part, Ize-Iyamu said the Council is made of the first eleven of Edo state political class and “This list has sent a great signal to those who are in doubt about the strength of APC in Edo that we are not only formidable but we have all it takes to regain our state and by the grace of God, we are going to regain our state. Our campaign will be issue driven, we will not resort to their pettiness, we will not resort to their lies and blackmail and we will not even resort to their destructive tendencies and violence.” 