The federal government has vowed to penalise airlines that would default in complying with the laid down protocols, adding that such operator would not be handed permit to commence restart of flight operations by July 8. This is just as the federal government has given assurances on the provision of palliatives for the country’s aviation industry. The minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika at the last webinar coordinated by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) on the status of the industry’s restart, reiterated that the provision by the government is being worked upon. According to Sirika, “It is already yes, we are working on it”. The director-general of the NCAA, Capt. Musa Nuhu re-emphasised that though federal government has announced July 8 as resumption date that safety would not be jeopardised. Nuhu warned that without total compliance to given protocols, no stakeholder will be handed permit to be part of the restart. “All stakeholders must meet the protocols set by the NCAA. If you do not meet, you are not granted permit to start. Some airlines will be given approval to start. Not all airlines and airports will start”, Nuhu warned. Also, the managing director of Aerocontractors, Capt. Ado Sanusi commended the managing director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Capt. Rabiu Yadudu on efforts made to get airports ready for the restart. Speaking on what mechanism will be used in controlling the traffic at the terminal, Nuhu said the regulatory authority will be employing International Civil Aviation (ICAO) Air Traffic Flow Management instrument. “ICAO’s Air Traffic Flow Management will control arrivals and departures. In order to properly manage this, we are going to request for airlines’ schedules and implement the AFTM with the space available to us at the airports”, Nuhu said. Speaking on security at the airports, FAAN MD, Capt. Yadudu said the Closed-Circuit Televisions installed are effective. “We have CCTVs across our airports and have proven to be effective”, Yadudu said.