The Nigeria Army in commemorating its day and 157 years in service to the country donated palliatives to 500 households in Amanawa, leprosy community and Lugga within Dange Shuni local government areas of Sokoto state. Presenting the gesture on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff (Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai, the Chief of Staff to 8 Division Command, Brig Gen. Hamidu Musa said the Nigerian Army has meritoriously served the country for 157 years in 2020. This, according to him, therefore made the theme of 2020 Army Day celebration, “Nigeria’s Territorial Defence and Sovereignty: Imperatives for Nigerian Army’s Sustained Training and Operations” very fascinating and apt. He further divulged that what the Nigeria Army is doing in affecting people’s lives positively was part of their military/ civilian relationship which they cherish so much. While stressing that, the day was supposed to be flagged off by the COAS himself, Hamidu said, the Acting GOC 8 Div was mandated to do that on his behalf. Said the COAS, “The Nigeria Army celebration has a long history that we don’t want us to go into for now. “What the army has put in place today through this gesture like always is to extend our hands of brotherhood to enable them know that we all share in their predicaments, especially in the wake of the COVID 19”. Speaking earlier, the Acting GOC 8 Div, Bri Gen Muhammad Bande, represented by the 8 Div Garrison Commander, Brig Gen Moses Gara said the COAS has deemed it fit to key into the Initiative of the federal government by giving palliatives to the most vulnerable of the communities. He also appealed to the locals to provide information to them on all matters relating to security of our lives and property. Reacting to the gesture, Alhaji Abubakar Umar Salame, Director Admin of Infectious Disease hospital, who represented the CMD, Dr Usman Bello said thy lack words to appreciate the military for the long term cordial relationship that exist between them. The village head and Sarkin Kwutare, Amanawa, Samaila Maigari,as well as that of Lugga community, Ardo Musa thanked the Nigeria Army for the gesture. Reacting to the gesture by beneficiaries, Rabi Musa and Hauwa Mahman both people healed from leprosy expressed happiness with the Nigerian Army.