The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the United Labour Congress (ULC) have settled their lingering crisis that split the labour movement in
the country into two factions. The resolution is coming five years after the ULC led by Comrade Joe
Ajaero broke away from the NLC after the disputed Delegates Conference
that brought in Comrade Ayuba Wabba as NLC president The Labour Centre said going forward from this unity, they are ready
now more than ever before to confront and overcome the myriad of
challenges facing Nigerian workers – economic, social, and political. President of NLC, Ayuba Wabba, announced the resolution at a joint meeting of the two labour unions in Abuja on Thursday. The briefing was attended by the president of the now defunct ULC, Joe Ajaero, and other executive members of the union. Ajaero was consequently announced as the new Deputy President of the NLC. Subsequently, Wabba and Ajaero in a joint statement said the leadership of
the Nigeria Labour Congress and the United Labour Congress wish to
announce to the world that the strain within the ranks of Organised
Labour in Nigeria has been resolved.  The statement reads further, “Nigeria Labour Congress led by Comrade
Ayuba Wabba, mni has FULLY RECONCILED with the United Labour Congress (ULC) led by Comrade Joe Ajaero. “Nigerians would recall that after the conduct of leadership election
in the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) at the 10th National Delegates
Conference in 2015, some misunderstanding arose between some
affiliates of Congress. Efforts by Labour veterans such as the pioneer
President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Comrade Hassan Sunmonu and a former President of the NLC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to resolve the
issue were inconclusive. “Committed to the bond of brotherhood and solidarity which the labour
movement all over the world is known for, the leadership of the
Nigeria Labour Congress and the leadership of the ULC kept aglow the
light of peaceful relations towards resolving their misunderstanding
as the two leadership resorted to direct discussions aimed at ending
the rift,” the statement added.