Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has expressed deepest sorrow at the
sudden and tragic death of Nigeria’s first female combat helicopter
pilot, Flying Officer, Tolulope Arotile who was killed in a ghastly
motor. accident in Kaduna State. The chairman of the Forum and governor of Ekiti State, Dr John Kayode
Fayemi, said the late Tolulope was a brilliant and promising officer,
who had demonstrated a high sense of loyalty, patriotism and
commitment to duty to Nigeria particularly in maintaining peace and
security in the country. The NGF regrets that Tolulole’s life was cut in its prime and at a
time she had so much to contribute to the upliftment of her country. But the immediate elder sister of the late first female combat pilot,
Tolulope Arotile, Damilola Adegboye, has called for a thorough
investigation into the circumstances surrounding her death. Adegboye in an interview with our correspondent on yesterday said that
the family is devastated by the untimely death wondering how an
ordinary reversing could kill a person just like that. “We in the family are not convinced that Tolu can just die like that
in a freak accident. I know that the military is well trained in the
art of investigation, we want them to carry out a thorough
investigation that can convince us beyond all doubts that the
incident that led to her death was real,” she said.  Also speaking, the mother of Tolulope, went down memory lane about how
she gave birth to her, describing her daughter as a special child whose fasting
and prayer were her hobbies. In the same vain, the Kogi State House of Assembly has called on the
state government to immortalise her. The call was contained in a motion moved by the member representing
Ijumu Constituency, Kilani Olumo, at plenary on Thursday. Olumo said the deceased pilot has contributed her quota to the
ongoing fight against insecurity in the country. The speaker, Prince Matthew Kolawole, in his ruling, called on the
Kogi State government to urgently immortalise the young icon while a minute
silence was observed in honour of the late Combatant Helicopter Pilot. Meanwhile, the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural and political organization,
Afenifere, has called for a coroner inquest into death of the
first female combat helicopter pilot in Nigeria, Tolulope Arotile. According to a statement signed by Afenifere’s national publicity secretary,
Yinka Odumakin, the organisation said it was not satisfied with the
explanation given for the cause Miss Arotile’s death. Also, the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Chief Gani Adams, has urged
the Federal Government to properly investigate the killing of Nigeria’s first female combat Helicopter Pilot, Totulope Arotile, saying her death was too suspicious to believe. Adams, in a statement issued on Thursday signed on his behalf by his
Special Assistant on Media, Kehinde Aderemi, he described the death of
Arotile as a personal loss, especially to the Yorubas.