The federal government has flagged-off the distribution of subsidised fertilisers to select vulnerable farmers in Nigeria as part of efforts to mitigate the effect of COVID-19 pandemic on food security. The ceremony was performed by the minister of state for Agriculture and Rural Development, Hon Mustapha Baba Shehuri, in partnership with OCP Africa Fertiliser Limited. While  flagging off  the distribution at Karshi Market in Abuja, the minister said the federal government’s partnership with OCP Africa was part of Mr president’s determination to improve the local production of fertilisers in the country in order to enhance productivity and household incomes of the targeted farmers as well as contribute largely to the food security attainment of the nation in general. The minister stated that similar gesture will be extended to other select farmers across 11 states in the country and will cover 50,000 farmers with two bags of subsidised NPK fertilisers at N4, 500.00 per 50kg bag. He reiterated President Muhammadu Buhari’s focus on the agricultural sector stating, “You are quite aware that agricultural sector of the economy is one of the key sectors that Mr President has accorded a lot of priority attention and enormous responsibilities to pull the country out of poverty through repositioning the sector with all the required supports.” He pointed out that the Ministry has embarked on the expansion of the various sub-sector value chain activities in crops, livestock, fisheries and key priority sectors such as provision of quality agricultural inputs particularly fertilisers, seeds, tractors, equipment and implements, agro-chemicals etc. “The Ministry is also paying attention to areas of land and climatic change management, rural infrastructures such as rural roads, water supply, some upstream and downstream activities in processing and value additions. “As you may be aware, as part of Mr President’s determined effort to improve the local production of fertiliser in the country, the federal government entered into bilateral agreement with the King of Morocco for the supply of Di-ammonia Phosphate (DAP).  As a follow up to the agreement, the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI) was set up based on the Public Private sector Partnership (PPP) arrangement.” The minister acknowledged that ‘’OCP Africa Fertiliser Limited is a world leader in the production and exportation of phosphate based fertiliser and phosphoric acid and also a key global player in the fertiliser industry, producing 7.4 million metric tons in its production plant in Morocco.  The group as I learnt has established a subsidiary OCP Africa, as a new company dedicated to transforming farming in Africa through the provisions of products and services to African farmers and making our continent an ocean of prosperity.” He commended the efforts of OCP Africa Fertiliser Limited by identifying with the Ministry in achieving the national goals of providing good quality Fertilizers to Nigerian farmers across the country. In his welcome remarks, the deputy managing director/country manager OCP Africa Fertiliser Limited,  Mr  Caleb Usoh said, “Through the 31 outlets spread across several states in the country, OCP Africa would by way of palliatives provide support to 50,000 smallholder farmers by ensuring distribution and access to buy the Presidential Fertiliser Initiatives’ NPK 20:10:10 at a subsidised retail price of N4,500/bag”. Usoh stated that OCP Africa would undertake to bear the cost of transport logistics, warehousing and distribution of these inputs to targeted farmers, adding that a total of 50 million naira worth of subsidies will be given as palliatives during the COVID-19 pandemic season. He informed that “the organisation is undertaking to train 50,000 smallholder farmers on Good Agricultural Practices specific to crops and value chains localised to specific regions. To implement this, OCP Africa has engaged qualified Training facilitators as well as recruited, equipped and engaged over 90 Extension Service Agents (Agripromoters) to support training and extension. OCP Nigeria has also purchased over 60 Motorcycles to aid mobility, 25 Cargo Tricycles to aid redistribution and 100 Electronic Tablets to aid data gathering and learning for the recruited extension agents.” 