Northern Parliament, a group of concerned professionals and academics from the North have demanded answers from President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipreye Sylva why the appointment of Alhaji Mahmood Adamu Atta into the board of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is alleged to have been changed by power brokers. The group called on President Buhari to as a father of the nation, use his revered office to correct any anomaly if any, in the appointment of Alhaji Mahmoud Atta as member of the board of NNPC as announced. At a press conference held in Kaduna, they also warned that such replacement will further lead to credence that important elements of governance is eroding the five-year administration of President Buhari. Speaker of the Parliament, Comrade Awwal Abdullah Aliyu who read the text of the briefing he jointly signed with the Secretary, Engr Musa Idris, called on President Buhari to come out clear on the controversy. According to them, “A situation where the president of Nigeria, reaches out to ask for an individual to perform some national service requires that such a gesture be dignified with acceptance, this was the reason why when Alhaji Atta was approached with the President’s request, he obliged in a show of respect and support and willingness to be of service to the President and motherland. “We are here today to address you on the unfortunate development regarding the appointment of Alhaji Atta making the rounds on social circles, that his name has been removed from the list of appointees signed by the media aide to the President as published. That in his place, a certain Mrs.Lami Ahmed Onayi will now be the board member. “Incredibly baffling as this may sound, we are of the thinking that certain elements are at work to derail a genuine effort of the Buhari administration by making sinister moves to affect this change and bring in a questionable character, who by all reckoning, does not qualify to be on the board of the NNPC,” they asserted. “This unfortunate action if at all true,is coming at a time when the Northern Parliament and Nigerians were rejoicing over the vision of our President, Muhammadu Buhari on the reconstitution of a new board for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and its combination of Technocrats and Politicians to reposition the Corporation for growth and prosperity as the hub of the Nigerian economy,” they stressed. They noted that if competence, experience,selflessness is the key consideration for bringing people to
support the efforts of Government, the administration shouldn’t have allow its name and reputation to be dragged in the mud “The Northern Parliament therefore, asks what are the offences of AlhAtta? Why deprive a man with such a distinguished background, coming from the highly revered Atta Ibrahim Royal family of Ebiraland,the opportunity to contribute towards charting the path of progress for the NNPC and the oil and Gas Industry in Nigeria?” They queried. Similarly, they called on the authorities and leaders to always be wary of those who for their personal interests will truncate any genuine efforts at moving Nigeria forward particularly at a time when Nigeria needs to leverage on its best hands and brains at this period when lowoil price has the potentials to make the country attractive for oil and Gas Industry investments that looks to the future; this where people like Alhaji Atta are most needed. “Northern Parliament therefore,calls on President Muhammadu Buhari as Minister of Petroleum Resources and the Minister of State to take a closer look at what is happening with their efforts at reengineering the petroleum sector less their hardwork pales into insignificance.