The Nigerian Immigration Service NIS (Cross River State Command) has charged youths/ traditional rulers in the state to assist in the provision of   intelligent information which will assist officers/ personnel of the service check the influx of illegal immigrants to the state. Controller General of immigration Service in Cross River, Barr. Oky Ezugwu dropped the charge while interacting with youths / traditional rulers while on a   courtesy visit to palace of His Royal Majesty, Muri Munene of the Efut Nation/Paramount Ruler of Calabar South LGA, of Cross River State, Prof. Itam Hogan in Calabar. Ezeogwu who solicited for intelligence information which according to him will assist officers of the service curb the menace of illegal migration to the state. He stated that security of any nation lies solely not only in the hands of uniform men alone, but greatly lies in the hands of citizens of the nation whereby the citizens see it as a responsibility in the provision of useful/ intelligent information to agency of government that is in dire need of such useful information rather than hoard information. “The ball is in your court. My coming here is to enable me rub mind with youths and traditional rulers of the 20 clans that constitutes Calabar South”. The Controller said. Ezugwu averred that 10 LGAs out of the 18 LGAs that make up Cross River State have common borders with the Cameroon, a situation which according to the controller makes it cumbersome for any security agent to easily track down of illegal immigrants. “All we are asking for is to provide us with intelligence information to enable us do our job diligently. Information of this nature will go a long way to enhancing our job and nothing else. He solicited for exchange of ideas between youths, traditional rulers and personnel of the service for the discharge of their duties. “South West / North West of Cameroon are in crises. One of the challenges of the crises is that there will be influx of illegal immigrants in to our country. “Its the reason we are experiencing outbreaks of refugees camps in 10 LGAs of Ogoja,Boki, Ikom and others hanging around the beaches in Cross River State”. The Controller claimed. The state Controller urged traditional rulers to desist forthwith from issuing certificate of origin to foreigners who merely strayed into in their domain to seek for refuge, only for such foreigners to visit the office of the  immigration certification letter  to obtained clearance which  helps them masquerade themselves as  Nigerians when originally they are fake!. In his Response, His Royal Majesty, Muri Munene of Efut Nation/ Paramount Ruler of Calabar South LGA, Prof. Itam Hogan promised to do the needful in order to assist the service perform their constitutional responsibility. The monarch who promised to cooperate with the service to ensure that those conniving with illegal immigrants to are apprehended and made to face the wrath of the law attributed the high rate of criminality, insecurity in the area to escalating rate  of unemployment and appealed that its youths who are of good character be enlisted into the service.