The Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and social development on Wednesday received No fewer than one hundred and seventy seven stranded Nigerians who have been repatriated back to Nigeria from Niger Republic at the International Wing of Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Anuja. LEADERSHIP gathered that the returnees arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja at about 9:29 pm on Wednesday and were received by the Humanitarian Minister, Sadiya Umar Farouq, National Commission for Refugees Migrants and Internally Displaced persons (NCFRMI) and the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC). The Humanitarian minister who was ably represented by the Group Captain, Shehu Sadiq (Rtd) technical adviser to the humanitarian minister said that they would be isolated for 14 days in isolation center Abuja before they would be free to reunite with their families and that the Federal Government has made arrangement for their accommodation where they’ll stay for the normal quarantine period of fourteen days before they’ll meet their family. LEADERSHIP reports that the 158 returnees, who were received at 9. 29am, comprise of male adults, female adults, with about 40 children. Speaking with the high commissioner, National Commission for Refugees Migrants and internally displaced person,(NCRMI) Hon Basheer Garba Mohammed ably Represented by the head of migration division of the commission, Joyce Okpara said, “we are here to receive 158 migrates of Nigeria origin that have just returned from Niger Republic, the 158 are made up of male, female and children, adding they are undergoing profiling to get the exact figures. Okpara said the returnees are supposed to be 177 in number but along the line while planning to bring them back, some of them get healed so that number that fell healed are not allowed to travel that’s why only 158 came back in this batch and we are doing everything possible to reintegrate the returned stranded Nigerians into the society. He said that information reaching them is that among this people that came back, one of them have sycho- social problem and that will be taken care of by the federal ministry of health. “From here, they are going to quarantined facilities where they will be quarantine for 14day according to the federal government policies to ensure they don’t spread Covid-19. She urged them to make better use of their lives as they returned to the country, assuring them of government’s readiness to provide equal opportunities to everyone and enjoined the returnees to be careful with those that promise greener pastures outside the country. LEADERSHIP gathered that the returnees were assisted back into the country by the International Organization of Migration (IOM). One of the returnees, Ifunaya Isreal Onuwa who hail from Ebonyi state narrated the ordeal situation that he left Nigeria about six months ago with the hope of going to search for greener pastures but was trapped at the desert, tortured, starving for days without food or water, “the challenges and stressed we went through at the desert was not easy.” He said, ” In the desert, many people have died, some are nowhere to be found because they could not stand the torture, saying here am I without any injury or dislocation so I appreciate the government authority, UN for assisting us and making sure we have comfort. “This is my first travel, I have not traveled before with the aim of seeing what others have seen and I have gone there, I have seen and confirm what’s going on there and I will not advised anybody to enter that road without going through good Process or having proper documents that will ensure that you travel safely,” he stressed. Another returnees, Ellen Ojorpo said, “it is only those who have gone to the desert with the hope of searching for greener pastures will understand what we are really talking about because many have died in the desert and I am so happy to back home,” saying that a lot of things happened in the desert. She said, “that there’s something they call baby child on a lucky road so I work with them, the suffering and the pain we went through so I cannot advised anybody to go through that process not even my enemy. “It was the UN and IOM that facilitated our return to the country. We are also grateful to them for helping us come back to Nigeria safely,” she said. 