Rt Honourable Dr Wining Uchenna Solomon is incharge of Majesty Worship Embassy, a faithful and intelligent steward of God whose integrity and leadership skills to rule is enormous. He shares his thought on the political situation in the country and his intention as a president of Nigeria comes 2023. Why do you choose to run for the position of Nigeria’s president and not other positions?
It was discovered that Nigeria needs Divine Restoration of our lost glory. I decided to run for the position of the Nigerian President because of what is going on right now in our country. The stricken poor Nigerians masses are daily crying for the change they anticipated for, and whenever I reflect on the present parlous state of the nation, it is sadly unfortunate that nobody among the present crop of Nigerian political leaders is ready to wipe off the tears from the poor Nigeria masses. It was then I sought the face of God, it was in the process of seeking the face of God I heard a strong leading in my heart to come out for presidency to free Nigerians from oppressions, to free Nigerians from poor governance and insensitive leadership and help restore sanity in Nigerian polity. I took up the mantle to contest the 2023 Nigeria’s Presidential election on the platform of ‘Nigeria Restoration Party’ (NRP) with a mission to restore Nigeria lost glory. Which I strongly believe that other religious bodies will also support. Some believes genuine christians have no business holding political offices. what is your take?
That’s is not true, according to the scripture you will discover that a lot of people that rule in the bible days are believers and Christians. The Bible made it clearly that when the righteous is on throne the people righteous, whose throne the righteous man going to be upon? What is your assessment of the present administration especially in fighting corruption, looking at the assertion by some Nigerians that president Buhari is the messiah?
If we must tell ourselves the truth, corruption is on a high side in this present administration though our president, Muhammadu Buhari is trying his best to step it down yet it increases profusely. Nigeria Restoration Party(NRP) is a party that is Trusted, Transparent, Responsible, Credible and Dependable Service to all with Restoration Mandate. If I emerge as president of this great country, Nigeria, the rule of law has to be re- established, Democracy has to be re-established, Nigerians will start having their full benefits as a citizen. Talk about your political ambition. what peculiar offers are you bringing to the table?
Nigeria Restoration Party has an agenda for the country before coming out. We will be an example of pure Democratic Government. Restoration of value system, full industrialization, Agricultural and Infrastructural renewal, Technological Growth through manufacturing. We will create impact in the lives of people. I will embark on total war against corruption in Nigeria. Under Infrastructure, I will make sure there are good roads created around the nation. International standard of hospitals across the nation. I will improve in Educational standard of children with building of materials for free education. Introduction of scholarship for extra brilliant youths. Under War Against Corruption, there will be a fight against corrupt practices in Nigeria, I will take it into law to fight against corrupt people and corrupt individual in the country. I will look into electricity, there will be 24 hours electricity all over Nigeria. Those who have served this country in one way or the other will also have their benefits duly delivered to them. Nigeria has been rated the world’s poverty capital, does it bother you,? looking at the living conditions of the citizenry?
I will make sure poverty is wipe out of Nigeria completely. I will channels funds to support Nigeria citizen from year one to eighteen, they will receive a salary of allowance of 50 thousand naira. Other vulnerable & Indigent Nigeria citizens will also receive monthly stipends according to their age. We will create a system in Central Bank Of Nigeria (CBN) to support the unemployed Nigerians with monthly stipends. I will create living job opportunities particularly for youths. I will attract several foreign investors and companies to Nigeria. I will improve our industries and refineries. Nigeria will be a great nation again. How would you rate Nigeria restoration party?
Nigeria Restoration Party (NRP) is not a party of self centered individuals, it’s a party that has the interest of masses at heart and the people of NRP are not corrupt. We are not public fund looters. Nigeria as a country is tired of Bad Government, we therefore say No Injustice, no to Corruptions, no to Oppressors, no to Dictatorship. My Leadership will be a Government that will invest so much in the lives of youths, the youth should expect much from me because I know their challenges. Nigeria Restoration Party is trustworthy, transparent, Responsible and well dependable to serve all with Credibility. How do you intend to combine God’s work to your political ambition?
Every area has its specific office. God’s work is Eternal and Political work is service to humanity. What is your view about Covid-19? What has it taught you especially as a church leader?
Covid-19 has really taught a lot lesson to me as a person and as individual. It has made us to be humble, My church leaders to be humble, made the world power to be humble. In this season of Covid-19, almost everything in the world is shut down. As a church leader, I am able to understand that God remains God, God is supreme and God is ultimate. It is only God that can conquer this pandemic. As a church leader, it has made me to look up unto God. It has also made my members to look up unto God. What do you think about the remaining part of the year, life after coving?
Almost part of the year has gone and we are believing that the remaining part of the year will be better, the pandemic will soon be over, everybody will go back to their different place of work effectively and everything will be normal again.