The National Association of Seadogs (NAS) also known as the Pyrates Confraternity ‘Sahara Deck’ of Abuja city centre, has expressed concern over lack of government’s attention and support to the Internally displaced persons IDPs living in the camp as coronavirus spreads across the country. The Steerere of Sahara Deck, Mr. Obiekwe Isaac, disclosed this during a sensitisation and distribution of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), as palliatives to IDPs in New Kuchingoro camp of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to fight against coronavirus pandemic. Isaac said, “The demand on government are enormous, that is why as an association that believe in government, we are appealing to government to do they part of addressing issues of health and education for IDPs. “On our own part as an association of Seadogs we will try to reach out to the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, especially on the need of the children who are in the basic school where this IDP camp is located,” he said. He promised to take the plight of the IDPs and their needs to the appropriate authorities as Steerere of the association. In his remarks, the Chairman, Internally Displaced Persons camp in New Kuchingoro, Abuja, Mr Philemon Emmanuel, decried lack of government’s support to the plight of the IDPs, said that the problem of the IDPs became more critical and worrisome during this period of COVID-19. According to him, “The clinic here is a donation from the German government, skills acquisition centre, shool and other building here are built by the South African embassy; there is no impact or support from our own government to our people here. “We are grateful to NAS, this is not the first time of giving us their support, NGOs used to come here to support us, we are really grateful to these people. “We will ensure these palliatives of facemasks and hand sanitisers are well distributed,” he said. Similarly, the Health Coordinator in the camp,
Mrs Marietta Oguejiofor, noted that shortage of drugs was one of the major challenge confronting the camp, adding that she had been in the camp since Sept 2011 after her retirement, as voluntary work just to put smiles on the faces of the IDPs. The National Health Coordinator of NAS, Mr Odoemene Chiazor, said that the association thought it wise and necessary to visit and sensitise the people in the camp with the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the country. Chiazor said that there was need to talk to the people and educate them on the preventive measures and on how to avoid being infected and spreading the disease. “If any case is discovered in the camp, it can spread quicker because of the congested nature of the environment, hence the need to educate them,’’ he said. The medical mate, Sahara Deck, Mr Wisdom Ekanem, said that the visit of NAS medical team to the camp was in line with the cardinal point of humanitarian development of the association.