Following the unsuccessful search for parents of three kidnap victims rescued by the operatives of the Nigeria police force, parents have been urged to come for identification and reunion with the children. Force PRO, Frank Mba said “We are being compared by the exigencies and the peculiarities of this case to do what normally we don’t do. By the very nature of our rules, particularly our standard operative procedures, we don’t show faces of children but this is an exceptional case. “This is particularly when these children are victims of crime. We have three kids here, two girls and a boy who were among the six children that were earlier rescued by the detectives of the Inspector General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IGP-IRT) led by its Commander, DCP Abba Kyari . “As a matter of fact, the case started in June 2019 when we got a report about incessant child stealing taking place in some parts of Nigeria. “On the strength of that case , investigators of IRT were said to have commenced investigation and in the cause of the investigation, they discovered a syndicate that specialised in stealing children and selling them off to intended buyers, many of whom are said to be persons looking for fruits of the womb.” He further explained that the police through concerted effort were able to rescue six children, three of them, all girls have been successfully reunited with their families. However, the police have been not been able to trace, locate or identify the families of the other three. “Our suspicion is that, these children were stolen when they were pretty much younger and may not be easily recognized by their parents. “The purpose of this briefing therefore, is for the media to help us put out the information out there so that family members who might have lost any one of their own or whose children or child must have been stolen to come up and take a very close look at these children for possible identification. “The suspects implicated in the course of the investigation have all been arrested and charged to court and are cooling their heels in prisons’ “But we will not rest until we reunite these children with their families and that is exactly the purpose of this briefing,” Mba stated. He appealed to the media to help publicized this information saying, “Hopefully, we would be able to find their parents.”