The National Assembly Service Commission yesterday announced the appointment of Amos Alatunde Ojo as acting Clerk to the National Assembly. The announcement which came at the heels of controversies over the retirement age of the current service officers of the commission, was made known through a statement signed by the executive chairman of the commission, Engr Ahmed Kadi Amisi. Ojo took over from Alhaji Mohammed Sani-Omolori, who together with 150 top officials of the federal legislature were relieved of their jobs after it was established that they had attained retirement age of 60 or spent 35 years in service had been asked to go. The commission also announced the appointment new top management staff of the service. Those appointed include Bala Yabani Mohammed, national deputy clerk to the National Assembly; Daudu Ibrahim El-Ladan, acting clerk senate and Yusuf Asir Danbatta, acting secretary to the National Assembly Service Commission, while Patrick A Giwa will retain his current position as Clerk to the House of Representatives pending his retirement from service in November this year. Ahmed, in the statement, explained that the body acted in pursuant to its mandate as provided in the National Assembly Service Commission Act 2014 (as Amended), Section 6(b) which provides that appointed person should hold or act. The former Clerk, Omolori, had issued a statement recently after the announcement of his retirement by the commission insisting that he was illegally removed by leadership of the National Assembly to plant their lackeys in juicy positions. Sani-Omolori had argued that the extant regulation as contained in NASS’ revised conditions of service duly passed by both Chambers of the 8th National Assembly puts the retirement age of staff at 40 years of service and 65 years of age, whichever comes first”. But the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) on Thursday queried Sani-Omolori for issuing a press release to counter the commission’s directive on Wednesday. The query was signed by the chairman of the commission, Engr Ahmed Kadi Amshi. The query alleged that Sani-Omolori breached the public service rules by issuing the press release. The query, the outgoing clerk is given 24 hours to explain why disciplinary action would not be taken against him. It noted: “The attention of the National Assembly Service Commission was drawn to a Press Release titled: “Retirement age for staff of the National Assembly Service is 40 years of Service or 65 years of Age, whichever comes first” dated 15th July, 2020 and signed by M.A Sani-Omolori, Clerk to the National Assembly. “As you are very much aware, the Clerk to the National Assembly is an employee of the National Assembly Service Commission, vide Section 6(1) b of the National Assembly Service Act, 2014 (As amended). The Clerk to the National Assembly has no authority whatsoever to dictate anything to the Commission. Your press release is considered by the Commission as a gross insubordination to a constituted authority.