As PDP Delta State Chapter suspends Lawmaker and issues a letter of warning to another, INNEH BARTH, in this analysis, examines the consequences. What appears to be a major crack in the ranks and file of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in Delta State emerged last week as the party state working committee issued a suspension letter to the immediate past deputy speaker of the state House of Assembly, Hon Friday Osanebi and a warning letter to another serving lawmaker. Dr Ifeanyi Osuoza, State Publicity Secretary, PDP, in a statement on behalf of the chairman, Barr Kingsley Esiso and the State Working Committee of the party, announced the suspension of the member representing Ndokwa-East State Constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon Friday Osanebi. According to him, the suspension, which is for an initial period of one month, commences with immediate effect saying the action has become necessary as a result of reported acts and allegations, which are potentially inimical to the peace and harmony of the party and tantamount to causing discord and disaffection among loyal party members. The party also expressed deep displeasure and serious concern over the attitude of the member representing Sapele Constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Chief Felix Anirah, especially his alleged use of provocative language and inciting vituperations in recent times, on party matters. The party maintained that Chief Anirah was wrong in casting aspersions on the leadership of the party, in regards to the forthcoming state Congress of the party. Its threatened to suspend the member representing Sapele constituency, Chief Felix Anirah over what the party described as the lawmaker’s provocative language and inciting vituperations against party members. It will be recalled that Chief Anirah is leading a bloc of party chieftains in Sapele against the second term bid of the party’s state chairman, Kingsley Esiso for a former Sapele council chairman, Godwin Atose. The party expressed displeasure and serious concern over the attitude of the party chieftain stressing that his actions and attacks in relation to the internal affairs of the party, have not only become hostile and confrontational but are now totally unacceptable. The party threatened to drag him before a disciplinary committee, noting that the utterances of the lawmaker were in complete disregard of the established structures and laid down appropriate channels for aggrieved and respectable members of the party in seeking clarification or redress on issues. “The party notes with utter dismay that Chief Anirah has not followed the party rules but has instead, set out on a most ignoble journey of disparaging party members with whom he has personal grievances on social media and other media channels. This is indecorous and he is urged to either restrain himself forthwith from any further untoward act or inflammatory comments or face disciplinary action. “As a party man, a political figure and public officer, Chief Anirah is very much aware that the Constitution of the party is the ultimate document which defines, directs and resolves all party matters and as such, should know better by subscribing and submitting himself to tenets of our constitution and comporting himself with greater decency and decorum in his public activities. “Chief Anirah is further advised to understand that the PDP is a party of men and women who take great pride in exhibiting party discipline as a virtue otherwise the party will be compelled to refer his actions and comments to the disciplinary committee for appropriate interpretation as his diatribes amount to gross assault to the sensibilities of all well-meaning party leaders across the State Meanwhile, inaugurating the disciplinary committee to look into the issues arising from the suspension of the former deputy speaker, Barr Kingsley Esiso, the party chairman, charged them to carry out their responsibility in line with the party’s constitution stating that a lot of events in the past by some leaders of party have put the party in bad light. He said “as a state working committee we decided to at all times apply the persuasive instrument in handling issues of the party relating to the entire working committee and members of the party and some of our members have decided to take our approach for granted. “Because we believe that the instrument of persuasion is very important in our daily activities that’s why at every given time, we have decided not to use the stick on members but have applied persuasion which does not give members the privilege to abuse the opportunity.” Those inaugurated into the state disciplinary committee are : Hon Barr Lovette Idisi (Chairman), Hon Barr Evelyn Oboro, Chief, Hon Itiako Constantine Ikpokpo, Deacon Moses Iduh,  Chief Julius Takeme, Barr Andrew Orugbo all members of the committee while Barr Bridget Anyafulu will serve as secretary.  No Cause For Alarm However, shortly after the committee inaugural sitting, the immediate past deputy speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Hon Friday Osanebi assured his supporters, admirers, fans and constituents that they shouldn’t be worried. Osanebi, arrived the party’s State secretariat in Asaba by 9:44am on 22nd June, 2020, the venue of the meeting with the Barr Idisi Loveth-led State Disciplinary Committee, to clear himself of a six count charge contained in a petition levelled against him which led to his suspension for one month pending investigation. Speaking with newsmen after the over two hours meeting with the committee, Osanebi thanks his supporters for their love and prayers, adding that they should remain calm, stressing that there was no cause for alarm. “I have appeared before the committee in person today, they had invited me to hear my side of the allegations in the petition against me. I have addressed the committee and they have heard from me also. There is no cause for alarm, they are still doing their job, and I am optimistic, it will always come out for our good.” Osanebi commended the party leaders and constituents that had come to the state secretariat to show solidarity, saying its a sign of love and commitment. “I want to thank you for coming. I am overwhelmed by your support and solidarity. It is a prove that love still exists,” he added. Meanwhile, the Ogani Isu Ndokwa, a social cultural organisation of the Ndokwa, has reacted to the suspension of Hon Friday Osanebi by the state leadership of the party. Dr Ossai Sylvanus Annantram, Publicity Secretary of the Ogani Isu Ndokwa, said “The attention of the leadership of Ogani Isu Ndokwa has been drawn to the news making round on social media that our visionary lawmaker, Hon Friday Osanebi has been suspended from PDP for one month while a disciplinary committee has been put in place to investigate the allegations against him. “The leadership of Ogani Isu Ndokwa is happy that the party has prepared the ground to give our articulate lawmaker a fair hearing as expected from modern democracy, so all the allegations should be put before him to make his defence in person open which the party will come up with a verdict which we are confident that Osanebi shall come out strong because he is on the side of justice. “The committee should ensure that they are not being teleguided to cover the truth as it will not speak well of the big umbrella family in Delta State, as it is already on the street that a senior member of PDP outside Ndokwa is fighting for the fear of his 2023 political aspirations. The party belongs to all in line with the slogan of party.” However, LEADERSHIP Sunday gathered that the former deputy speaker may have been suspended, following the fallout from the last PDP LGA and wards congresses in the state. Following the outcome of the congress, the lawmaker was alleged to have been in a cold war with the Olorogun Kingsley Esiso-led State Working Committee (SWC) and some leaders of the party from his constituency over the manner he was schemed out of the congresses. He was alleged to be secretly mobilizing against the re-election of the embattled state chairman of the party, Olorogun Kingsley Esiso, ahead of the state’s congress of the  party. Several sources confirmed the cold war between Osanebi and some leaders of the party. “Former Deputy Speaker is angry over the manner the last congress of the party in the state was conducted. Despite his position, he completely lost out in the last congress from ward to LGA levels. “Those he was rooting for to emerge as exco of the party both at the ward and LGA levels of the congress did not win. Almost all the leaders particularly from his Ndokwa East onstituency worked against him. “They knew he is very popular among the people especially youths because of empowerment and philanthropic gesture. Many people can testify to his popularity on social media and how he built houses and bought cars for his aides. What played out during the congress was a grand plan for 2023 now that he is scheming for House of Representatives,” a source stated. Political analysts have equally argued that the lawmaker is plotting to dump the party over the way he was treated during the congresses for an opposition party where he is expected to build a formidable structure for 2023 ambition. “Many party leaders are not comfortable with his popularity and his closeness with Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, representing Delta North in the senate. Senator Nwaoboshi though still in PDP but his body language is that of the APC. He may be working with the deputy senate president, Ovie Omo-Agege who is eyeing the governorship seat in 2023 with Senator Nwaoboshi as his deputy. “So the PDP in the  state is jittery that is why they want to cripple Osanebi since he was a  loyalist of the  Senator Nwaoboshi. So his suspension may just be the first  move to ensure that his influence is whittled down,” a political analyst has argued. Could these actions of the  state working committee of the party be a genuine move to instill discipline or a targeted move to intimate those with opposing views? However, political pundits have argued that what is happening now is democracy in action. “The party is structured to be able to deal with issues of discipline when they arise; and then people must understand that party have rules called Constitution and that the rules are meant to be obeyed. Governor Okowa is a disciplined man and I think that is what the party leadership wants to achieve.”