As Nigerian  Muslims join the rest of the world to  celebrate Eid-el- Kabir in remembrance of Prophet Ibrahim who was set to fulfil his promise of sacrificing his Son to Allah but got rewarded with a ram in place  of his son and eternal blessings upon his descendants, let’s emulate his virtues by rendering Selfless services for National growth, says Princess Gloria Akobundu, National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer, African Union Development Agency- New Partnership for Africa’s Development/African Peer Review Mechanism ( AUDA-NEPAD/APRM),Nigeria. Akobundu made the call in her goodwill message to the nation’s Muslims in a statement signed by the Media Assistant  Abolade Ogundimu. According to her, Nigeria will become a greater nation if every citizen takes pride in rendering Selfless services for national growth and not pursue selfish interest at the detriment of  the nation’s development. “While we all make efforts to afford basic needs, let’s also remember to reach out to the less privileged within our immediate communities. “The more we think about other’s well being and not self alone, the society and by extension the nation will be better for it. “In the spirit of Celebrating the Sacrifice of Prophet Ibrahim and subsequent blessings by Allah, let us do more in sacrificing for others,  so that the nation can be blessed with rewards for patriotic and selfless efforts,” she said. The APRM Boss, also member,  AU-APRM Continental Committee on Response to COVID-19 and other pandemics reiterated the need to be conscious of the pandemic during festive period. “I  urge Muslims and entire nation Happy Eid-el-Kabir Celebration and remind all to be cautious of COVID-19 especially, during the period”. Akobundu added that conduct of Second Cycle Review of the country in APRM thematic areas would commence soon, urging general public to be patriotic in their roles during the exercise. “After robust training by APRM Continental and domestication of ideas by Nigeria’s resource persons, our Review team is ready to conduct the exercise very soon. “The Review Process is to identify challenges to governance in various parts of the country and proffer lasting solutions to them  thereby promoting good governance. ” I therefore urge respondents to give patriotic response while answering our review team.” She commended President Muhammadu Buhari for approving and being committed to the success of the Review. “We thank Mr. President for his commitment to second Review of the nation after 11 years and we are assuring him of providing valid report that will be acceptable for National Policy on governance and adaptable by APRM Continental for experience sharing among member states,” she said. APRM thematic areas for review include: Democracy and Political Governance; Socio-economic Development; Economic Governance and Management and ; Corporate Governance.