The Legal Defence and Assistance Project (LEDAP), with support from the Malala fund, have perfected plans to enroll 11,000 out of school children back to classroom in Adamawa state. Hajiya Sa’adatu Umar, the program manager, made the disclosure at one-day media parley in Yola, on the right to basic education in the state. The figure comprises of 9,000 girl child  and 2000 boys mainly from primary and Junior Secondary School 1-3 are to benefit. Umar noted that, the organization had created human right clubs, in three schools in each of the 21 LGAs, with a view to come up with data aimed at ensuring the right of every child to free compulsory education as enshrined in the Universal Basic Education Act is achieved. She lamented that, there are issues hovering around the free education declared by the state government, including collection of PTA, sports and practical in home economic fees amounting to over N,1000 per child is still on going in public schools across the state. “LEDAP/Malala fund charge government to prove free education in the state. Monitoring, evaluation and tracking budgetary allocation of education sector she observed, could help to promote free and quality education for all. “The parley is inline with education right of the girl child in Nigeria which is aimed at ensuring that state governments take appropriate action to promote free and quality education. The program manager, advocated stakeholders to key into addressing  violence against women which manifest in trafficking, abduction as well as forced marriages. Everastus Udo, Consultant and Lawyer, in his presentation,  ‘An Overview of the Universal Basic Education Act,’ identified ignorance, early marriage and girl child abuse to some of the challenges responsible for increase in school drop out in the state. Udo, reiterated the commitment of LEDAP in offering free legal services, especially to the girl child in the state The state government had introduce free education system early this year, to ensure every child accessed  basic  education need at all level in the state. The media parley drew journalists from the  print and broadcast stations in the state. 