Rotary International Clubs around the 42 districts, 152 Rotary Clubs of about 47 countries around the globe are set to hold a joint online award ceremony on the 5th of July to honour Rotarians and clubs who have done excellently in touching lives positively amidst COVID 19 pandemic. The ceremony necessitated by the show of exemplary service to humanity by some Rotarians before  and during the COVID 19  pandemic in reaching and  reconnecting various communities in providing support and also complimenting government efforts. The online awards ceremony built for 1pm on July 5th, will be hosted by Rotary club of Abuja The Ambassadors with Rotary International President Elect Shekhar Mehta and Osei David H. Andrew past district governor 6450 USA as keynote speakers. Some of the Rotary awardees and clubs from District 9125 to be honoured including Ct. Ozuem Esiri , Rtn. Elvis Chukwu (PDG), Rtn. Victor C Onukwugha (PDG), Rtn. Ayo Oyedokun (DGE), Rtn. Dr. Goddy Nnadi (DGN),Rtn. Femi Adegoke (PAG), Rtn. Joel Haruna (PP), Rtn. John Akwaji (PP), Rtn. Mohammed, Dan Hassa (PP), Rtn. Winnie Fonaka,(CP) Roy-stanley C.Nwafor (PAG), Rtn. Clementina Okolo, Rotn. Adeleke (PAG), Nkiru Nmamah (PAG) among others. Awardees around the globe are DGE Rtn. Carlos Azevedo – Brazil, Rtn. Rayan Jeffrey – USA, Rtn. Manish Chaudhary – India, Rtn. Salindar Supri – UK, Rtn. Senzena Peki – Montenegro, President Rtn. Rodolfo – Rivera Italy, Rtn. Julia Agwangwu and Clubs awardeees to be RC Hull Paragon – UK, RC Bar, RC Port Harcourt Central, RC Abuja Metro, RC Venezia Milano, RC Chicago Southeast and RC Chennai Legends – India,RC  Nairobi Kenya. The Immediate past president of Rotary club of Abuja, ‘The Ambassadors’ Amb. Ozuem Esiri Onyebolise, noted that the award is one of the cardinal events of Rotary International while also explaining that The Service Above Self Award is Rotary International’s highest honor for individual Rotarians as it awards Rotarians who have demonstrated their commitment to helping others by volunteering their time and talents with exemplary humanitarian service. He further noted that the awardees are truly deserving of the awards as they have been tested in these areas. The current president Amb. Roy C.N. Stanley Nwafor, on his part described the Rotarians as standing and representing the true example of what rotary stands for in service to humanity.