Africa’s foremost car inventor, researcher and manufacturer of Z-600,
Engr Dr Ezekiel Izuogu is dead. Izuogu who hails from Ideato North Local Government Area (LGA) of Imo
State, Nigeria died early hours of July 18th, 2020. He was a scientist, a researcher of note, foremost politician and
inventor of Nigeria’s first indigenous car, Z-600, that took the world
by surprise during its first official public unveiling. The Izuogu Z-600 prototype was the first indigenous Nigerian car, and
was the first automobile of indigenous all-African technology.
Launched in 1997, it caused a stir in the hearts of many Nigerians,
who hoped for a personal car and stimulated the Nigerian media. The car was described by the BBC as “the African dream machine” as 90%
of its parts were sourced locally. At a projected sales cost of 2000
dollars, it would have taken the world by storm and become the
cheapest and most affordable car on earth. With mass production
planned under Izogu Motors plant in Naze owerri, the prospects of an
industrial revolution in Igbo land and Nigeria, was in the making. It was also equipped with a self-made 1.8L four cylinder engine that
got 18mpg and allowed the car to achieve a top speed of 140 km/h.
Front Wheel Drive (FWD) was chosen over Rear Wheel Drive (RWD) because
a transmission tunnel, which RWD would require, would be more
expensive to fabricate. It has been reported that 90% of the car’s components were made
locally prompting late General Sani Abacha to set up a 12 man panel of
inquiry made up of professionals to ascertain the road worthiness and
authenticity of the car. The committee gave Dr. Izuogu’s car a clean
bill of health, recommending that some of the bumps on the body of the
car be smoothened. It is worthy to note that this was five years
before India built their first car known as the Indi. It was gathered that at a well-organized unveiling ceremony which had
General Abacha represented by Gen. Oladipo Diya, over 20 foreign
ambassadors and thousands of people in attendance, the federal
government promised a grant of 235 million naira to Dr. Izuogu.
However, no dime was released to him. According to sources, “In 2006, the government of South Africa invited
Dr. Izuogu to do a presentation about the car in the presence of
several world class engineers. Being impressed with his presentation,
they invited him to come and set up a plant in South Africa and begin
the production of the car. Izuogu reluctantly agreed, though he wasn’t happy that the benefits of
employment generation will be lost on the locals of Naze and the
Nigerian human resources environment. On Saturday, the 11th of March
2006, at about 2.00 a.m, a total of about 12 heavily armed men broke
into Dr. Izogu’s factory in Naze and carted away various machines and
tools including the design history notebook of Z-600, the design file
Z-MASS, containing the design history for mass production of Z-600
car, and the moulds for various parts of the car. He was quoted saying, “It seems that the target of this robbery is to
stop the efforts we are making to mass-produce the first ever locally
made car in Africa. Other items stolen included, locally produced timing wheel, locally
produced camshaft, locally produced crankshaft, locally produced
engine tappets, all 20 pieces each “Also stolen were ten pieces of locally produced Z-600 engine blocks,
ten pieces of locally produced pistons, four pieces of engine block
mounds, four pieces of top engine block moulds, ten pieces of engine
fly wheel and two pieces each of rear car and front mudguard moulds. ”The inventor regretted that not only did they lose over one N1billion
in monetary terms, but also time (about 10 years) and the energy it
took to design and produce the moulds. To worsen the matter, our
design notebook was also stolen,” he stated. He regarded the incident as a national economic disaster because the
nation had lost a technological and intellectual property. This Press
was quiet about this story. The set back and government’s attitude
frustrated Izuogu and his dream died. During his days, he strongly advocated that Nigerian born
intellectuals and researchers especially, in the private sector should
be properly supported and included in the Research Funds established
by the Federal Government since that is what drives technological
advancement and development in the industrial world.