The Court of Appeal in Abuja yesterday affirmed the powers of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to deregister political parties. The appellate court, in its judgment, upheld the decision of the Federal High Court sitting in Abuja which held that NUP and 74 other political parties remain deregistered. Justice Muhammed Baba Idris ruled that INEC did not err in law to have deregistered the political parties. Justice Taiwo  Taiwo of the Federal High Court had in May ruled that INEC acted in accordance with section 225 A of the 1999 constitution. Similarly, Justice Anwuli Chikere of a Federal High Court in Abuja, in another judgment on June 11, also nailed the fate of another 33 political parties earlier deregistered by INEC. The court ruled that the 34 political parties, having not complied with the rules, had since lost their registration. In the same vein, the Court of Appeal in its ruling on a suit filed by NUP yesterday affirmed that INEC has powers to deregister NUP and the other 73 political parties. The appellate court held that INEC was right to have deregistered NUP which was one of the 74 political earlier axed by the commission. Pending appeals by other deregistered parties may now be an academic exercise following the judgment.  Don’t Turn Edo Into War Zone, Oba Of Benin Warns Politicians The Oba of Benin, Omo N’ Oba Ewuare II, yesterday warned politicians against turning the state into a war zone. The monarch gave the warning in a statement by spokesman of the Benin Traditional Council (BTC), while reacting to the shootout by supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) outside the Oba’s Palace last Saturday. According to a statement made available to journalists yesterday, the monarch condemned the “unruly” behavior of supporters of both political parties. The Oba who reiterated that the palace remained nonpartisan said he remained committed to peace and tranquility in the state, and a peaceful upcoming governorship election in the state. He, however, enjoined all well-meaning indigenes of Edo State to join him in continuous prayers for peace and tranquility in the state as well as ensuring peaceful elections on September 19. The statement noted: “The BTC wishes to state that His Royal Majesty warmly welcomed the august visitors led by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State. “The meeting was cordial. During the meeting, the Oba recalled the warm reception accorded him by Governors Nyesom Wike and Aminu Tambuwal, when he paid a Thank You visit to both states. The courtesy of the esteemed august visitors to the monarch ended very well. “We were therefore surprised to hear later that there was an incident outside the Palace, directly in front of Oredo Local Government Secretariat. His Royal Majesty condemns this unruly behavior that occurred in front of the Palace. We wish to emphasise once more that the Benin Throne is not partisan. “The BTC uses this medium to advise all political party members not to turn Edo State into a war zone because of gubernatorial ambition. His Royal Majesty is committed to peace and tranquility in the state and peaceful upcoming gubernatorial election,” the statement read.