Former deputy president of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, and other prominent Nigerians on Thursday paid tribute to Nigerian Pharmacist and legal practitioner, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi on his 80th birthday. In their separate goodwill messages, they described the former Minister of Health and Social Services as a distinguished and accomplished pharmacist and businessman, philanthropist per excellence, legal practitioner, and a perfect and ethical gentleman. Ekweremadu noted that at 80, Adelusi-Adeluyi deserved all the accolades that have come his way, and even more. He said, “Prince Adelusi-Adeluyi’s life is a clear testimony that with determination and hard work, one can excel in all that he or she lays forth his or her hands to do. He has shown this not only in the way he returned to study Law as a full time student, but also in the way he has effortlessly and seamlessly combined his callings as a pharmaceutical mogul, legal practitioner, and politician, serving his fatherland as a Minister of Health and Social Services. “I salute his determination, intellect, humility, philanthropy, integrity, and pan Nigerian spirit. His life is worth understudying and stands as both blessing and inspiration to the younger generations and has carried himself with profound social grace. “Therefore, on behalf of my family, I heartily congratulate this great soul on his birthday. I pray God to grant him many happy returns in good health, wisdom, strength, and indeed the grace to continue to soar on the path of excellence.” In his tribute, Pharm Chief Yetunde Morohundiya, said Uncle Julius is a man of admirable integrity. He recalled how as a young Pharmacist, his late father handed him over to Adelusi-Adeluyi and more than forty years later he has remained faithful to his promise and never fails to offer sound counsel as necessary. His words: “One outstanding quality is that he never condemns rather he corrects and encourages. He has also maintained the good relationship with our family, being present at major family Functions and taking time to participate conspicuously. “Uncle Juli is an embodiment of high intellectual drive, a resource and reference for anyone who is ready to tap and learn from his wealth of experience which cuts across all facets of human life. “Above all he is God fearing. There is something to learn during every contact with him. His guidance for the Olasupo Morohundiya Foundation For Legal Education Development in the Faculty Of Law, University of Ibadan is always well appreciated. On this very auspicious occasion of your 80th birthday, we rejoice with you and praise God for making you a special gift to humanity. “We pray that God will bless you with many more years in good health, abundant wealth and unlimited joy. As your days are, so shall your strength be and may you remain relevant in your service to God and humanity,” he added. He said writing his tribute was nostalgic as it reminded him of growing up and living in Ikeja since the 1960s. He stated: “It was a close knit community and everyone knew everyone else who mattered.The Morohundiyas, Awosikas, Julies (as Uncle Juli’s family was usually referred to), Ebigwe/Ikokus, Jibowus, Jinadus, Erogbogbos, Jimohs, Akinreles, Binities, Ogunsalus, Pratts, Olaiyas, Fowowes, Olagbemis, Babajides, James, Shobolas, Gansahs, Adeshigbins, Durosaros, Lanlehins, Olaniyans, Maj General Adebayos, Soremekuns, Adesolas, Ajalas, Aboyade-Coles, Bakares, Koleoshos, Oba OkunadeSijuwade, Aderemis, Ademiluyis, Sasegbons, Chief Harolds of Ikeja Arms Hotel (now Lagos Airport Hotel), Chief Edwards of Masco Supermarket and so many others were closely associated.” On her part, High Chief (Dr) Mrs Winifred A. Awosika, congratulated the Prince and his Queen, Salewa, wishing them more of God’s Abundant Blessings. She said, “My husband, the late Dr Chief Victor Oloyede Awosika and I, were opportune to attend the wedding of “Juli and Julia” at the Holy Cross Cathedral, Marina, Lagos almost 50 years ago! “My family moved from GRA Ikeja to Kodesho Street, Ikeja and our house was directly opposite the renowned Juli Pharmacy & Stores (as it then was). Being a full-time house wife at the time, frequent opportunities came up for me to visit his Pharmacy. Together, our families have seen Ikeja grow from the countryside to a bubbling city, now the capital of Lagos State. “Prince Adelusi-Adeluyi used to call Dr Awosika, ‘brother’ and they were particularly close. Apart from our frequent interactions at Rotary events, in which he later became the first District Governor in Nigeria, we were always together at most Ikeja functions. His eloquence and outstanding command of the English language made him the toast of many formal ceremonies and especially Rotary events”. 