A 54-years old Pastor of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Oluwafemi Oyebola, has been arrested for allegedly raping and procuring illegal abortion thrice for his biological daughter. The pastor was among the 103 suspected criminals paraded on Thursday by the Ogun state police command. Oyebola, who confessed to committing the incestuous act, was paraded alongside a nurse; an Assistant Matron in one of the state government’s owned hospital, Mrs. Ogundimu Monilola who allegedly helped the 24-years old victim (name withheld) on how to use Family Planning method to guide against subsequent pregnancies. Parading the suspects at the command’s headquarters in Eleweran, Abeokuta yesterday, the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson said the incestuous father, Oyebola was arrested following a complaint lodged with the police at the Owode-Egbado divisional headquarters by his 24 – year – old daughter that her father has been forcefully sleeping with her since she was 19 years old when her mother died. Ebrimson further told journalists that the victim, in her statement, informed the police that she decided to expose the matter to the public after terminating the third pregnancy for her father, who also led her to uptaking the Family Planning method. Speaking in an interview with journalists, the C.A.C Pastor, who blamed the act on the devil, said he was hit by the “devil’s arrows”. Oyebola further claimed that he could not fathom why he engaged in sexual intercourse with his daughter, stressing that it was not intentional. Oyebola, who disclosed that he had asked for forgiveness from her daughter, however, expressed his regret and asked for forgiveness from Nigerians. “I regret my action and I have sought forgiveness from my daughter. She has also forgiven me as she came to plead with the CP on my behalf on Wednesday. I want to sincerely beg for forgiveness from Nigerians; my action was unheard of, and I seriously regret it”. The cleric stated. Speaking with journalists, Ogundimu, the nurse, who allegedly carried out the three abortions for the cleric’s daughter, denied aborting any pregnancy for the girl. Ogundimu emphasized that till date, she is an Assistant Matron and Head, Family Planning Unit at Idiroko General Hospital in Ipokia Local Government area of the state. Others paraded by the police included 50 youths arrested in connection with the “7 – 7” cultists anniversary held last Tuesday in Abeokuta, the state capital where members of the notorious “Eiye” Confraternity cult group allegedly initiated new members but were prevented from unleashing terror on the people of the state because of the heavy police presence which laid ambush for them. 