President Muhammadu Buhari has joined Yoruba socio-cultural and political organisation, Afenifere, in mourning the passing of Pa Ayorinde Fasanmi, describing his death as a big loss to the ßnation. The President in a statement by his special adviser media, Femi Adesina, condoled  with people and government of Osun and Ekiti states, family members, friends and associates of the elder statesman, who served as a legislator in both House of Representatives and Senate, and distinguished himself politically by always standing for the truth, especially on issues related to the uplifting of the downtrodden. President Buhari affirmed that Chief Fasanmi’s wise counsels borne out of humility, deep reflection, diligent studies and experience will be sorely missed by governments at different levels, as he regularly and willingly listened to leaders, and always had a good advice on going forward. President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, has also sent his condolences to the family, friends and political associates of late Pa Fasanmi. Lawan also commiserated with the government and people of Ekiti State and the Yoruba people in general over the demise of a leader who throughout his life was committed to the cause of his people and Nigeria. According to a press statement signed by the special adviser (media) to the Senate President, Ola Awoniyi, he said the late elder statesman made immense contributions to nation-building as a two-time parliamentarian, public office holder and political party leader. Also, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has expressed sadness over the demise of the leader of the Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Fasanmi. In a statement by his special adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the speaker said though the demise of the late patriot would be felt by the nation, the progressives and his family, solace would, however, be taken in the fact that his footprints have been firmly entrenched in the sand of time. Meanwhile, Osun State governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, has described the death of elder statesman and leader of the Yoruba socio-politicalgroup, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Fasanmi, as a big loss to not only the Yoruba race, but also Nigeria as a whole. He said the late Pa Fasammi would be greatly missed and remembered for his love for and service to Nigeria and its people. Oyetola in a statement signed by his chief press secretary, Ismail Omipidan, commiserated with Pa Fasanmi’s family, the Afenifere Group, the entire Yoruba race and Nigerians over the loss.. Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has also expressed sadness over the death of the elder statesman and leader of Yoruba socio-cultural group Afenifere, Senator Ayo Fasanmi whom he described as “a great nationalist, passionate leader and humility personified.” Governor Sanwo-Olu, in a condolence message signed by his chief press secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said the death of the nonagenarian came at a critical period when his wealth of experience, knowledge and wisdom was most needed in Nigeria. Meanwhile, Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has described the late Afenifere leader, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, as a steadfast Awoist andcommitted progressive who was a torchbearer for younger progressives in his lifetime. Fayemi in a statement by his chief press secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, said the death of Fasanmi has robbed Nigeria of one of her most selfless politicians and patriots who demonstrated unalloyed commitment for a better country where justice and equity occupy a pride of place. Reacting to his demise, the pioneer chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Adebisi Akande lamented the exit of Fasanmi whom he described as his political godfather. Akande in his condolence message said the demise of the elder statesman is shocking and very painful to him personally because he was his political godfather since he introduced him to Chief Obafemi Awolowo in 1977. For the Yoruba Youth Socio-cultural Association (YYSA) the death of the prominent leader, Senator Ayo Fasanmi remains a monumental loss not only for Yoruba land but Nigeria at large. The association’s secretary, Olawale Ajao in a statement in Ibadan yesterday  stated that Fasanmi was a core progressive and Awoist whose impacts and contributions could not be forgotten.  Th