Barely one week to the Eid-el-Kabir celebrations prices of essential commodities have increased by about 100 per cent across the country due to devastating effect of COVID-19 on the nation’s economy. LEADERSHIP Weekend findings revealed that high demand for food items such as ram, rice, vegetable oil, wheat, cow, frozen and live chicken and tomato, which are essential commodities for the Eid-el-Kabir celebrations, have shoot up their prices ahead of the festive period. A visit to some of the major markets across the country showed that the prices of food items have taken a toll on the spending of Nigerians despite the harrowing economic hardship caused by pandemic. A Muslim faithful, Alhaji Suleiman Usman Hashim, told LEADERSHIP Weekend he can only give glory to Allah for his preservation and blessings notwithstanding the present situation in the country, adding that he will only purchase items for the Sallah in accordance with available resources. However, dealers in textiles materials are witnessing low patronage due to the paucity of funds, while foodstuff sellers are smiling to the bank despite the hike in prices of foodstuff. A trader in textile materials at the popular Gbajumo market in Osogbo, Alhaja Sidikat Alarape, who spoke with our correspondent also lamented low patronage which she attributed to the economic effect of COVID-19. “Most of my customers are complaining of lack of money; they told me they would rather spend the little they have on the purchase of foodstuff”, she lamented. Despite the harrowing economic hardship caused by COVID-19 on residents of the FCT, Kano, Sokoto, Kebbi, Kaduna, Owerri, Benue, Osun States, Muslims across the states have commenced shopping to celebrate the forthcoming Eid-el Kabir. Mrs Fatima Ojetunde who went to the Ifon-Osun market yesterday for shopping lamented the hike in the prices of foodstuff, adding that her family has decided to buy affordable meat in place of a ram whose price, she said, is now outrageous. In Yobe state, LEADERSHIP Weekend survey shows that prices of some basic food items have increased between five to 10 per cent in some markets across the 17 local government areas of the state. A visit to markets in some local government areas of the state showed that the prices of rice, beans, tomato, vegetable oil, palm oil, and other food items had increased too much. Our correspondent reports that a 50kg bag of parboiled rice selling for N16,000 before has increased to between N24,000 and N28, 000 in some markets across the state. The survey further revealed that the price of local rice was however stable at N19,000 per bag of 25kg. A bowl of white beans which was N350 has increased to N500, while a 10kg bag of Semovita now sells at N4,100 instead of N3,500. A trader at the old market, Mallam Audu, told said the marginal increase in the prices of food items was due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. He, however, noted that prices of some food items were still stable, saying a 25-litre of vegetable oil still sells for between N16, 500 and N17, 000 depending on the brand. A goat that used to sell for N14,000 now sells for N25,000 as a result of the Sallah, while chicken which used to sell for N1,500 before the Sallah period now sells for N3,000 ahead of the Sallah celebration. A small basket of fresh tomatoes that hitherto sells for N10,000 now goes for N18,000. Big ragolis bottle of palm oil which used to sell for N300 now sells for N450 ahead of the Sallah celebration. A cup of pepper which used to sell for N400 now sells for N600. Findings at the 8miles market Calabar metropolis also revealed that only very few individuals, particularly those who are of the Islamic religion are the ones making purchases ahead of the celebration, unlike in the past when people used to buy in bulk ahead of the Sallah celebrations. Prices of essential commodities have also increased between 100 and 200 per cent in Oyo State. Before now, people have been groaning over economic hardship brought about by Coronavirus (COVID-19), and with the festival around the corner, things are now more expensive. Market survey at the popular Bodija, Ojo and Woo road markets revealed that the economic situation was getting worse on a daily basis. As a result, traders have been recording low patronage of customers and sales. While the customers are lamenting the high cost of commodities and lack of enough purchasing power, the traders are lamenting low patronage. A civil servant, Mrs Adetunji Lawal who claimed that the economic situation was becoming unbearable due to hike in the cost of essential commodities, said it was unfortunate that more money was being used to purchase few goods. She said the high cost was telling much on the economic lives of the people, adding that nobody could predict the extent of the situation before and after the celebration. A trader, Alhaja Tawakalitu Adebisi, lamented that COVID-19 has brought untold hardship to the people. She explained that as a result of the disease, most of the farmers have stopped going to their farms, while commercial drivers have arbitrarily increased transport fares. “These have no doubt increase the high cost of essential commodities, thus bringing untold hardship to the people,” she said. The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting all facets of human endeavor as Muslims faithful in the state seem to have resolved to take it calmly in this year’s Sallah festivities. A visit to the market, revealed an uneasy calm within the vicinity, as traders were cited discussing in low tunes in respect of low patronage while indicating that the COVID-10 pandemic has brought with it, attendant hardship and low sales output. Muslim faithful in the state seems not to be enthusiastic, going by the level of income and purchasing power available to them to make purchases in respect of the celebration. All items in the market have all skyrocketed even as there are few buyers patronizing the market. Food sellers, ram sellers and those dealing on clothes are also bemoaning lack of patronage from prospective clients. The reason for this is not farfetched; this is due to low purchasing power caused by the harsh economic realities in the country. In Kwara State, the government has announced the cancellation of Eid-el-Kabir congregational prayers across the state, citing the steep rise in the state’s COVID-19 cases and the danger of such a large gathering worsening the situation. The government also announced a ban on vigils in Churches and Mosques while restating the ban on concert, clubbing, beer parlour, and bar in hotels. The deputy governor and chairman of the Kwara State Technical Committee on COVID-19, Mr Kayode Alabi, during a news briefing in Ilorin, the capital city, stated that the decision to cancel the Eid prayers was a painful but necessary one to save lives. He said the government was setting up a task force to enforce all the new directives, including new guidelines on transport unions and market associations. By the decision, the Kwara State shopping mall (Shoprite), the Amusement Park, markets, and the University of Ilorin Zoological Garden are to close down on Eid Day and the day after Eid. Niger State governor, Alhaji Abubakar Bello, has also directed the cancellation of all festivities during the forthcoming Eid-el Kabir Sallah celebrations across all the eight emirates of the State. A statement issued by secretary to the state government (SSG) and chairman, Niger State Task Force on COVID-19 pandemic, Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, disclosed that while the state government granted permission for the conduct of Eid congregational prayers in  Jumma’at Mosques across the state, such would be done under strict compliance to COVID-19 safety protocols. The SSG further explained that the decision to ban the festivities was part of government’s effort to curtail the spread of coronavirus as well as consolidate one success achieved in the fight against the pandemic. He urged Muslims to use this period of Eid-el Kabir Sallah celebration to increase supplications and pray for Almighty Allah to bring an end to the coronavirus pandemic as well as security challenges bedeviling the State and the country at large. Ahmed Matane stated that this year’s Eid-el Kabir Sallah has come at a trying moment occasioned by the debilitating effect of the coronavirus pandemic on the World, adding that in order to get rid of the virus completely, Nigerlites must adhere strictly to physical distancing, wearing of face mask, regular handwashing with soap and water and application of hand sanitizers, among others. Although COVID-19 has crippled almost every activity in Benue, the prices of goods and rams in major markets in the state have increased significantly amid preparations for the Eid-el-Kabir celebrations. A visit by our correspondent to Wadata and North Bank Markets in the state indicated that there was a significant increase in the prices of rice, tomatoes, pepper, ram and other livestock. Some of the traders who spoke to our correspondent attributed the hike in prices of goods as well as low patronage to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to Adamu Isah, who sells rice and beans at Wadata Market, even though the federal and state governments have lifted the ban on inter-state travel, drivers are still suffering from Police extortion. He said it was responsible for the hike in the price of goods stating that it costs so much transporting the goods. A fresh tomato and pepper seller at the North Bank market, Ebere Chikanso, complained about how the increase in the transportation of goods has affected the price of goods in the market, saying the prices of pepper and tomatoes were yet to come down, even though it is rainy season. She also lamented low patronage due to lack of purchasing power on the part of consumers. A trader who identified herself as  Hajia Maina at the Wadata market said a 25kg bag of local rice which was sold at N8,000 is now sold at N10,500  while 4 litres of grand oil which was sold at N2,800 is now N3,200. Rams, a major livestock that is significant to the Eid-el-Fitr celebration, also flooded the market as sellers waited for buyers. Our correspondent, during a visit to North Bank Cattle and Ram Market, observed that ram and cow sellers hurdled in groups with only a few buyers bargaining with them. A cattle trader, Sani Abdullahi, who lamented low patronage, attributed it to COVID-19 lockdown, saying he hoped that there would get better patronage as the days go by. According to him, a sizeable ram cost N35 000 while the biggest ram goes for N70, 000 and above. He explained that the cost of transportation and feeding as well as Police extortion on the road had contributed to the increase in the price. The Muslim faithful in Rivers State are planning for low key Eid-el-Kabir celebrations due to the continuous spread of the Coronavirus pandemic. Chief Imam of Mile One Central Mosque, Port Harcourt, Alhaji Murtala Suleiman, disclosed this yesterday in a telephone chat with LEADERSHIP Weekend in Port Harcourt. Suleiman said, “Our celebration this year will be on a low key due to the Coronavirus pandemic affecting the world, where people are expected to practice social distancing as one of the measures of staying safe. “Even Jumat prayers on Fridays are being held in accordance with the stated rules and guidelines by the government both at the State and Federal levels. “We are law-abiding citizens and would not go against the constituted authority. The Holy Qur’an has enjoined us to Worship Allah, follow the teachings of the Prophet and obey the constituted authority. To support and honour whoever is our leader irrespective of his tribe, nor religion.”  FG Asks Civil Servants To Test For COVID-19 Meanwhile, the federal government has asked all Abuja-based civil servants to get themselves tested for COVID-19. The directive was contained in a circular by the permanent secretary, Service Welfare Office in the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation, Dr Evelyn Ngige. Ngige signed the circular titled, “Conduct of COVID-19 testing for civil servants” on behalf of the HOSF, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan. The circular dated July 17, 2020, was addressed to all federal permanent secretaries. It noted: “I am directed to inform you that the federal government has provided facilities for the conduct of COVID-19 tests for civil servants at the ThisDay Dome, Mohammed Kur Avenue, by Nanet Suites, Central Business District, Abuja (from 10 am to 4 pm daily) as part of efforts to curtail the spread of the virus. “Accordingly, you are required to notify all staff of the testing facility to enable members of staff who experience COVID-19 related symptoms and those wishing to get tested in your MDAs to take advantage of this opportunity”. She called on the attention of civil servants to the updated guidelines on the control of the disease in offices which she said could be accessed on the official website of the Office in the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation. 102 Nasarawa Health Workers Test Positive Meanwhile, a total of 102 health workers in Nasarawa State have tested positive for coronavirus. Chairman of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) in the state, Dr. Peter Umaru, who disclosed this to journalists in Lafia, the state capital, said 77 infected healthcare workers are from the public facilities while 25 are from private facilities. He disclosed that among those infected are himself and president of Association of Resident Doctors (ARD), Dr Peter Idoko. The chairman disclosed further that both himself and the chairman of the ARD have since been discharged having been cured of the virus and tested nagitve of the disease.