The Defence Headquarters  (DHQ) has said that the military is not aware of the sponsors of Boko Haram terrorists and bandits in the country because it is not its responsibility to unmask them. The coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj- Gen. John Enenche, stated this yesterday during the weekly briefing on Armed Forces of Nigeria operations across the country. He, however, said that the military had arrested several collaborators and handed them over to the appropriate authorities for further actions. He said: “For the sponsorship of terrorists’ activities in Nigeria, we don’t know their sponsors. “Once we get information on collaborators, we move in with military actions; for sponsors, that one is at the high level, we have not seen them, we have not seen that people are sponsoring them. The evidence is that people (terrorists) are getting provisions and equipment that ordinarily should not be, even if they loot and sell the rustled cattle. “A common assessment will now justify how much would they steal and sell to get gun trucks and other equipment. All these point to the fact that they are being sponsored, funded, but that is beyond the military,” Enenche pointed out. He reiterated that the job of ascertaining the claim is that of the various intelligence cells, adding that the responsibility of the military is operational and ends at that. Enenche said that the Nigerian troops deployed for Internal operations across the country have continued to record tremendous successes, disclosing that the troops deployed to the North-East theatre conducted several operations at various locations, which led to the neutralisation of terrorists, destruction of their equipment and structures, as well as recovery of various items. He said between 18 and 30 June 2020, the Air Task Force of OPLD conducted intensive airstrikes to mark the launching of its subsidiary Operation LONG REACH along the fringes of the Sambisa Forest in Borno State, following concerted Intelligence Surveillance Reconnaissance missions, adding that the air operations led to the destruction of a BHT tactical command centre housing some of their high-value leaders, and neutralised several of their fighters at Garin Maloma and Yuwe villages. He further revealed that airstrikes conducted at Buka Korege, Bula Bello, Ngoske, Tongule, Bukar Meram and Warshale Villages led to the destruction of several BHT locations and gun trucks, while scores of fighters were effectively neutralised. On the other hand, troops of the Army Super Camp 17 at Cross Kauwa in Kukawa local government area and troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE deployed at Response Area, Aulari in Bama local government area, both in Borno State, successfully repelled BHT/ISWAP’s attacks on 24 and 25 June 2020, respectively. The troops responded to the terrorists’ attacks and killed 2, recovering 2 AK-47 rifles, 2 Hand Grenades and some ammunition, as well as 2 Rocket Propelled Guns and Unexploded Ordnances fired by the terrorists. Meanwhile, in the Northwest, significant successes were recorded in air bombardments. “Furthermore, farmers are gradually returning to their farms. This is as a result of troops’ patrols in the hinterlands, to deny armed herdsmen, rustlers and other criminals, freedom of action.” 