The Federal Government through the federal Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq, has assured the Gombe state government of assistance in tackling floods, poverty and unemployment among other issues ravaging the state. She gave the assurance in Abuja when the Gombe state government, led by the state governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, paid a courtesy visit to the ministry. Farouq said: “This ministry was created by President Muhammadu Buhari on August 21, 2019, to be able to provide succour to the poor in the area of disaster management, poverty alleviation, among others. It is a ministry that connects with the poorest of the poor at the grassroots anywhere in Nigeria. Therefore, all the issues you raised about Gombe are something I believe we can work together to resolve. More palliatives will be sent to Gombe through NEMA; in form of grains as we will make sure Gombe is included as part of the frontline states with regards to floods. We have already sent out warnings to different states as we want to mitigate disaster to the barest minimum. “I urge you to tell your people to enroll more in the Batch C N-Power programme, which will close on July 26. I will make sure justice is done to all the states. I will also lay your complaint of lack of COVID-19 testing facilities to the PTF so that NCDC can intervene. We are working with the Ministry of Agriculture, so rural farmers in Gombe will be empowered. More poor people in Gombe will be targeted for the NSIP. I can assure you, the ministry will pay more attention to Gombe now, more than before.” Farouq said that Gombe was one of the states that received palliatives during the lockdown period necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic, but assured that more grains will be sent to the state as soon as possible, even as implored more residents to register for the ongoing Batch C N-Power, which closes on July 26. Speaking earlier, the Gombe state governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, appealed for the intervention of the federal government with regards to insecurity, floods, poverty and establishment of COVID-19 testing centre in the state. “We have boundaries with states in the Northeast and the issue of insurgency and insecurity is forcing many residents to flee into the state to settle, thereby overstretching our poor social facilities, adding that the government need intervention in the area of insecurity, floods and even combating COVID-19, especially as we don’t have testing centres,” he said. 