With the existing laws, calls for castration, publication of names of rape convicts in the sex offenders’ register, life imprisonment and a host of other penalties not deterring rapists, JOY YESUFU writes on women professionals’ search for better security and protection for women and girls. The increase in Sexual Gender-based Violence (SGBV) around the world, including Nigeria, has forced women groups to call for improved security and protection of women and girls. Their clamour is informed by the failure of other measures taken by individuals and government to yield the desired result. In the same way, the launch of the Sexual Offenders’ Register by NAPTIP in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development and some states of the federation passing the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act have not served as deterrents to rapists and SGBV. The national coordinator of the West Africa Network for Peacebuilding, Nigeria (WANEP-Nigeria), Ms. Bridget Osakwe recently expressed concern over the increasing sexual assault and rape of women and girls in the country, saying that there was an urgent need to end SGBV and protect the rights of women and girls. According to Osakwe, the recent surge in the cases of rape and sexual harassment of women and girls is an expression of the deeper systemic disregard for women as widely reported by the media resulting in the death of the victims. These have sparked off outrage across the country, she said. Osakwe said that to this end, WANEP has amongst other recommendations called on “state and non-state actors to implement transformative strategies that are people-oriented and focused at addressing the root causes of gender-based violence, improve security with attention on women and girls and enacting laws for strong national response that support victims and survivors of violence”. She said that the steep increase in gender-based violence became noticeable with the outbreak of COVID-19 and the “stay-at-home” directive of the federal government as part of the measures to curb the spread of the disease. She noted that most women and girls at this time were confined at home with their abusers with little or no information on what to do and how to access social services.  “WANEP–Nigeria reiterates that women and girls’ vulnerability during conflict and at peace times and the consequences of violence they suffer is unjustifiable. Acts of violence against women and girls contravene the provisions of the United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1325 and 1820, the Sustainable Development Goal 5 – which call for gender equality and empowerment of women and girls, the Protocol on the Rights of Women in Africa: an instrument for advancing reproductive and sexual rights;  the Violence Against Persons (VAPP) Act (2015) and the Child Rights Act (2003). “While we call for a federal government legislation mandating a zero-tolerance approach in penalising and prosecuting the perpetuators of gender-based violence,  we enjoin all Nigerians to take responsibility and work actively to build a society based on justice, non-violent transformation of conflict, respect for women human rights and human dignity for all,” she said. Against this backdrop, WANEP urged the security agencies including the Police and the Nigeria Society and Civil Defence Corps to coordinate activities towards providing an integrated security framework that ensures swift response to incidences of violence against women and girls and the prosecution of perpetuators. While commending the 25 state governments that have passed the Child Rights Law, WANEP called on the 11 state governments that are yet to domesticate the Child’s Rights Act including Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Sokoto, Yobe, Jigawa and Zamfara to do so immediately to protect the rights of children particularly girls. WANEP recommended that state actors should partner with women focused civil society organisations in strategising on the domestication of (VAPP 2015 within states to protect the rights of women and girls against the different forms of violence. Similarly, the secretary-general of WRAPA, Hajia Saudatu Mahdi, demanded the implementation of the Child Rights Act and VAPP Act 2015 in all states with full criminal justice for rape perpetrators. She said that violence against women and girls, especially by intimate partners and most commonly lately, rape is on the increase in the entire country, noting that all of the victims of the 717 reported cases mentioned by the inspector-general of police (IGP) are yet to get justice for their abused rights. Mahdi said the aim of the advocacy by WRAPA is to amplify Civil Society Organisations, women’s groups and vulnerable group’s voices against Sexual Gender Based Violence (GBV) in the FCT and demand zero tolerance for Violence Against Women and Girls (VAWG) Also, the International Federation of Female  Lawyers (FIDA Nigeria) deputy country Vice President  Amina Agbaje said that government needs to declare a state of emergency on gender-based violence so it can be tackled forthwith, most efficiently and effectively  across all states of the federation. She said that FIDA Nigeria wants all states to have in place the enacted laws or review their laws to deal with this menace adequately while calling for the implementation of the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act, the Child Rights Law and other related laws. Agbaje said that FIDA is also advocating that the police, which have the responsibility to arrest and investigate these cases must be well equipped to fight the menace to secure convictions that will serve as deterrents to offenders. “FIDA insist on the arrest, prosecution, conviction and punishment for offenders. We request the setting up and activation of ‘Gender Desk’ in all police posts or stations manned by trained personnel and the free opening of case files for gender based violence cases. “We advocate for the establishment of Sexual Referral Centre (one stop shop) with rapid response teams attached comprising of the police, doctors, lawyers, social welfare officers, psychologists, psychiatrists etc, to reduce the victims’ trauma and aid the preservation of evidence for the effective prosecution of perpetrators,” she said.  