As the 2020 Democracy Heroes Award draws close, voting across different categories may have become more competitive and even overheated, as Nigerians make commendable efforts to vote their best and most qualified Nominees for the prestigious Man of the Year Award Category. According to reports from the voting committee, two executive Governors from the Southwest are currently gathering tremendous votes. Amongst the contesting nominees for the ” Man of the Year” award category of the distinguished and prestigious Democracy Heroes Award are Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Executive Governor of Lagos state, who is really pulling so much votes, Governor Seyi Makinde, The Executive Governor of Oyo State, who has also gathered commendable votes, Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, the Executive Governor of Adamawa state and Muhammad Yahaya, the Executive Governor of Gombe State. The Man of the Year Award of Democracy Heroes Award is one of the most sensitive categories and will only be awarded to one of the Nominees who earns the highest vote-count from Nigerians and made extensive efforts to support and encourage developmental impacts across communities in Nigeria. With Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Gov. Seyi Makinde in a very close vote count, speculations and reactions have now been thrown at their impacts, as media arguments and dialogues highlights their development strategies and democratic dispositions in governance. According to ongoing reactions, some Voters took ample time to spotlight and commend some of the engaging development impacts of their choice-Recipient for the “Man of The Year Award”. Though the duo have done notably well, persons have yet argued why others should vote their choice-Recipient, stressing that with such strides they deserve to be recognised and decorated as the 2020 Man of the Year Democracy Heroes Award.  While reviewing spotlights on the achievements of Lagos State Governor, we noted some remarkable achievements which Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu inaugurated and completed, which cuts across education, housing and road projects. Some of his commendable projects includes, completion and renovation of schools like classroom blocks in Maya Secondary School, Ikorodu, Eva Adelaja Junior School, Bariga, and Saviour Primary School, Ifako-Ijaiye. Other projects are the completion of Concrete Jetty in Baiyeku, Ikorodu, Aradagun-Ajido- Epeme Road in Badagry, and the Maryland Signalisation project, 360-unit Lagos Homes in Ikorodu, and then visit Igbogbo Baiyeku IIB Estate, Lekki, and the Courtland Villas on Femi Okunnu Estate, amongst others. Other notable highlights where on his counterpart, the Executive Governor of Oyo State, Gov. Seyi Makinde. He has been applauded for his numerous initiatives and ongoing projects in Oyo state. They highlighted his completed 307 projects in the education sector, while listing the 236 other ongoing projects in the state. He is described as the one of the first Governor who maintained that despite the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic, his administration was focused and leveraged the setback to improve the health care system in Oyo state. In a reaction from the head of voting committee for the 2020 Democracy Heroes Award, he stated that the process and response from Nigerians was quite commendable and interestingly remarkable, especially with the huge and numerous participation ahead of the 2020 Democracy Heroes Awards, theme “The Power of Togetherness”. 