In this piece, GODWIN ENNA picks holes in the allegations of financial malfeasance levelled against the Katsina State government by one of the state’s denizens. Recently, Katsina State residents were awoken by the myriads of allegations of misappropriation of public funds raised by Mahdi Shehu against the state government. Mahdi, a Kaduna-based business mogul and chairman of Dialogue Group Limited, had petitioned the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), alleging that the Katsina State government under the leadership of Governor Aminu Bello Masari misappropriated N52.6 billion in the last five years. The funds, Mahdi alleged during a radio programme monitored in Katsina, were part of the monies domiciled in the state’s security escrow accounts. Addressing a press conference, Mahdi claimed that N24 billion state security funds was diverted under Governor Masari’s watch from 2015 to 2018, adding that over N40 billion was diverted in shoddy circumstances during the same period. According to him, N49 million was spent on phones for state executive council members, while hundreds of millions were diverted into accounts of some commissioners, special advisers and a National Assembly member. “You now have evidences that as late as April 2020 he has withdrawn N10.841 million from the escrow security account being their monthly allowances as usual. So far, from June 2015 to April 2020, N849.656 million was removed in cash from the escrow security accounts domiciled at UBA Plc/Fidelity Bank Plc as monthly allowances to 10 MOPOLs at Lambar Rimi. “The list of those MOPOLs, payment vouchers, bank details, and their signature will be a better proof than internal memo and fund release paper which any smart alec in trouble can author in minutes. “At the end of the month of May 2018, N500 million was approved to the office of the SA political to the governor to enable the office of the special adviser extend Katsina State Government (KTSG) assistance and donation to the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Convention Committee to enable them carry out the national convention at the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. Vote charged was 4601218/11. “Rather than seeing the money paid to the said SA political through an instrument or transfer, the approved N500million was transferred into the personal accounts of four active politicians and political appointees. This sommersault took place at the finance ministry,” Mahdi added. As should be expected, Mahdi’s revelation, which was widely circulated through the various social media platforms, generated serious reactions with some individuals mentioned as beneficiaries or partakers of the alleged misappropriation of funds, threatening legal action. The allegation engendered heightened debates among different strata of the society with some viewing it as not only baseless and laced with fabrications, but a mere ranting of a man seeking undue political relevance. Of course, other believed that it was the true reflection of sustained pilfering and outright mismanagement of the meagre resources accruing to the state. Government Reacts The revelation generated a lot of controversy and concerns especially within the APC administration under Masari with the point man and one of the administration’s stabilising forces, the secretary to the state government (SSG), Alhaji Mustapha Inuwa, describing it as baseless and frivolous claims devoid of facts and substantial evidence. In a swift reaction, Inuwa, who is the chairman, Committee on Security Matters, stated that there was no iota of evidence in the allegation of diversion of over N24 billion from the state’s security escrow account to some political officeholders’ accounts in the state. Inuwa said that the entire monies that accrued to the state security escrow account from 2015 till date was a little over N6 billion and not up to N24 billion as being alleged by Mahdi Shehu. He insisted that it was laughable if not outrightly mischievous, for one to alleged that N24 billion was mismanaged from an account that accrual to it was below N7 billion. The SSG said that monies expended since the inception of the Masari-led administration were duly accounted for and there were documents to prove, noting that same were available for interested persons to see. “The allegation that the state government embezzled more than N40 billion, with hundreds of millions credited into accounts of public officeholders is frivolous and unfounded. “The entire money that came into the state security escrow account since we came into office is N6.4 billion, so how can somebody say that we embezzled N24 billion from the same account? “When you deduct monies paid as salaries and pensions, along other expenditures, what usually remains is not more than N200 million or thereabouts. Where or how was N40 billion diverted in such case? “We promised to expend public monies in a transparent manner, and the details of what goes in and out of government coffers is there for all to see,” Inuwa, who served variously as general manager, commissioner and SSG under the administration of the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua as governor, enthused. He warned that the state government would seek redress over the allegations, even as he assured the people of the state of the government’s commitment to the transparent use of public funds. While appearing on a Radio Nigeria Hausa programme, “Hanu Dayawa”, aired in Kaduna, the SSG, insisted that Mahdi’s allegations, which have no shreds of evidence was politically-motivated and part of the grand ploy of some politicians eyeing the Katsina State governorship seat in the 2023 election. Inuwa said that funds were being judiciously utilised in confronting the myriads of security challenges confronting the state, noting that the obviously baseless allegations were but deliberate attempts to distract the government. “For instance, the insecurity issue in the state, let me tell you that there are some people that want it to continue just to say that the present government has failed in the fight against insecurity during the campaigns. “We intend to seek redress in court, and some of the public officeholders including Senator Bello Mandiya, have denied the allegations levelled against them,” he said.  The Misaligning Facts But determined to prove some points, Mahdi tendered some documents to the EFCC and ICPC to back his claims while the Katsina State government also presented some documents to counter the allegations. Our reporter, who had access to some of the documents said that there were contrasting postulations which tend to lend credence to the fact that the allegations were politically-motivated as part of the grand ploy for 2023. Recall that Mahdi alleged that between June 2015 and April, 2020, N849.656 million was removed in cash from the escrow security accounts domiciled at UBA Plc/Fidelity Bank Plc as “monthly allowances to 10 MOPOLs at LambarRimi” in Rimi local government area. In countering this claim, the state government the presented expenditure profile of the Lambar-Rimi Wind Mill Project from 22nd December, 2011 to August 2017 when the last payment was made with the expenditure not in any way near what Mahdi paraded. Similarly, Mahdi stated that on “13/8/2018, the sum of N780.150million was paid to para-military operation during COVID-19 lockdown.” Analyst said that this allegation and other misaligning facts had further cast doubt in the minds of most residents. For instance, there was no COVID-19 pandemic in 2018 and so there was no how any amount for that matter could have been spent under the guise of containing the disease. Also, Mahadi‘s allegations were based on the abuse of the Escro account which he claimed generated up to N52billion. But the state government provided documents which showed that the highest inflow into the account was N6billion. Another key issue was the purchase of handsets for 12 members of the executive eouncil, for which Mahdi claimed that N49million was expended in the purchase of telephone for the 12 members. But upon interrogation, it was observed that the state government spent N2,420,000 for the purchase of cell phones for 50 members of the executive council. Documents gleaned by our correspondent showed that the cell phones were purchased at the rate of N1300 for 50 members totalling N900,000 plus N250,000 special line serials and N1,270,000 spent on Nokia 3310 all of which brings the total to N2.42million. Another allegation was that of N250 million cash allegedly doled out to the chief of army staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusuf Buratai by the Katsina State government. The Army boss has not only debunked the accusation but expressed displeasure over the claim and threatened to take legal action against Mahdi and demand for N10 billion as damages to be paid to him if within 48 hours Mahdi refused to retract his allegation and apologise in three local newspapers of the state. Although the allegations seem wild and spurious, residents of the state are waiting with bated breath to see what becomes of the myriads of threats to sue Mahdi whom some believe was out to begin subtle permutations for 2023.