The Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday declared that former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in search of vice presidential slot. Chairman of PDP BoT, Senator Walid Jibrin who disclosed this yesterday in a press statement, dispelled the reason provided by Dogara for his defection, stressing that the former speaker, who is a BoT member, never complained to any of the organs of the party about his grievances over the state of affairs within the party. Recall that Dogara who defected from PDP last week,  listed in his letter of resignation from the party, acts of corruption by the Bauchi State government and maltreatment of traditional rulers amongst reasons for his return to APC. Walid said, “I have read with mixed feelings the reason given by former speaker House of Representatives Mr Yakubu Dogara for decamping to APC. I am equally sorry for Dogara for not adhering to all avenues available in the party’s constitution for settlement of disputes or complaints by a member of the party. I became more disturbed when the reasons given by Mr Dogara for his decamping considering his position as a former speaker”. “In his position as a member of BoT, Mr Dogara has never laid any complaints to me as the chairman of BoT which is the highest advisory organ of the party. Considering serious reasons given by Dogara for his decamping, one is compelled to say that Mr Dogara has other strong reasons for leaving PDP”.  “I am beginning to suspect that former speaker has an underground motives for joining APC. I begin to suspect that Mr Dogara has a plan of becoming president or vice president in 2023 which he knows he will never archive in PDP. I want to assure former speaker that PDP shall continue to be very strong and united and its doors remain open to all Nigerians therefore PDP will never accept any plan from anybody to destroy the party.” The BoT however threw its weight behind  Governor Godwin Obaseki in his quest to retain his seat in the forthcoming governorship election. “BoT is making arrangements to visit Edo in order to ensure the success of Obaseki. BoT will also visit our PDP governors and party hierarchy in the states . No shaking at all, victory is ours,” he assured.  