The West African Health Organization (WAHO) has donated medical supplies, including ventilators, to the Nigerian government, to support the COVID 19 response. Speaking during the handing over ceremony in Abuja, WAHO DG, Prof. Stanley Okolo, stated that the goods were procured by a major grant by the German government, partly through the German Development Bank. He stressed the need to adhere to the COVID 19 guidelines, saying that “We believe that the coronavirus is going to be with us for sometime and we have to start modifying our behaviour by observing scrupulously personal respiratory hygiene, practice physical distancing, always wear the face masks. “WAHO has assumed a paramount role in the coordination of response and assisting member states in mobilisation. Receiving the donation, the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, expressed federal government’s appreciation to ECOWAS and WAHO, adding that “We are gathered here to receive a donation of medical equipment to the government and people of Nigeria, courtesy of WAHO, to support our effort to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. “I am informed that this donation includes ventilators, test kits, personal protective equipment (PPE’s) and face masks, which is always good news, as these products are critical supplies in our COVID-19 response strategy.” Speaking further, Ehanire said “The public health institution of the Federal Ministry of Health, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has been focused on providing the public health guidance we need to tackle the challenge. “The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 was set up to lead the whole-of-government response strategy and determine non-pharmaceutical measures to ensure the safety of citizens. “Our health workers are toiling assiduously to treat COVID-19 patients, provide emergency care, while not losing sight of routine and essential health services. They all need our support and encouragement and I believe that the provision of these test kits and PPE will generate even more peace of mind to facilitate their work.” 