Gov Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has approved the establishment of a mobile court to handle cases involving rape across the state. State Commissioner for Women Affairs, Hajiya Halima Ahmadu Jabiru, disclosed this while delivering a speech during a parley between the state Governor and APC women drawn across the state.  Jabiru said, the state government is worried by the increasing rate of rape in the society, as such it has become necessary to establish mobile courts specifically to handle rape cases, with a view to bringing perpetrators to book. She used the opportunity of the meeting to show appreciation to Gov Sule, for giving the nod for the setting up of a mobile court to try rape suspects, with the state Justice Ministry working to produce a draft bill to be presented before the state House of Assembly. The commissioner condemned the spade of rape incidences, as well as the violation of women and girl’s rights, calling on the judiciary to ensure perpetrators of such heinous crimes, face quick and stringent penalties to serve as deterrent to others. Hajiya Jabiru also called for the establishment of a scheme to address the issue of girl child education in the state. According to the commissioner, women being keen followers of developments in the state, are impressed with the leadership style of the governor, demonstrated by humility, strict adherence to due process and inclusiveness, which is giving every citizen a sense of belonging. While commending the governor for carrying women along in his administration,  in terms of appointments and economic empowerment, Hajiya Jabiru expressed hope that with added support to women through the Ministry of Women Affairs, there would be improvement through multiplier effects on families and the entire society. The women used the opportunity of the meeting to congratulate the governor on the peaceful conduct of the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election in Nasarawa Local Government Area. Hajiya Jabiru described women as the best rallying point for peace building, sustenance and total enhancement of development, where they have always proven in leadership position to be prudent and truthful. Also speaking,  Mrs Aisha Isa Idoma,  chairperson of the National Council for Women Societies (NCWS) in the state, commended the Governor for undertaking to complete projects initiated by his predecessors. On her part, APC Woman Leader in the state, Mrs Elsie Monday, also thanked the governor for carrying women in all political activities, from the state, local government and ward levels. According to Mrs. Monday, with the development strides being recorded by the present administration, APC has come to stay in Nasarawa State. Responding, the Nasarawa State governor,  Abdullahi Sule,  thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for taking appropriate measures to ensure peace reigns in the North Central and the country at large.