The gang leader of dreaded bank robbery syndicate, Tunbosun Ojo has narrated how he lead his members
to attack and rob some commercial banks in the south east, which led to the
killing of six police men and other innocent citizens. Other members of the group include Ismaila Ojo, 25 years, Victor Oyeyemi, 36
years, Dele Ariyo, 44 years, Shola Oladimeji, 50 years, Olubodun Folayemi, 44 years and Adeniyi John, 42 years,
all males. Narrating how the operations were executed, Tunbosun, 42 years old,
said one of the members of his gang, named Dele Ariyo, brought the information about one of the banks that
was robbed. He explained that Dele Ariyo and Olubodun Folayemi, serves as
Motorcycle riders, whose job is to mount surveillance and monitor the banks to be
robbed before and during the operations.  Confessing to the crime, Tunbosun said he led the group to the banks and
operated within the banking halls where he directed operations. Speaking on how six policemen were killed, Tunbosun said he never authorised that and when he queried his member, who killed the policemen, he was shot in the leg. He also stated that when ever the finish operations, they don’t count the monies
that have stolen but he admitted to having collected N1,100,000; N500,000, and N350,000 as shares from some of the banks robberies. Force PRO, DCP Frank Mba, while speaking on the case, said it took
police investigators under
the Inspector General of Police Special Tactical Squad months of intensive
investigation to unravel and arrest the suspects. According to him, “Police operatives attached to the Special Tactical Squad
arrested the7-man criminal gang that attacked and robbed three commercial
banks in the South-West states of Ondo and Ekiti between 2019 and 2020,
killed innocent citizens including six policemen and carted away several millions of naira. “Investigation reveals that the dare-devil armed robbc carriedout the robbery of a commercial bank in Ile-oluji, Ondo State on 7th February, 2020 where four policemen were killed.  “Similarly they were also involved in the robbery of a Microfinance Bank in Idanre, Ondo State in December, 2019 and a commercial bank at Oye Ekiti, Ekiti State where two policemen lost their lives.” Mba also noted that efforts are being intensified to arrest other members of
the gang still at large and to recover other sophisticated weapons used in the operations.