In spite of President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive at the recently concluded National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party that pending cases be withdrawn among members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), LEADERSHIP reports that some leaders are already in court for sundry issue’s. In court document sited by LEADERSHIP, as at 24 June, 2020 in the Federal High Court of Nigeria in the Calabar Judicial Division, a suit with file no: FHC/CA/CS/52/2020 was filed by Mr Ushie Eneji and Mrs Euginia Takon against the erstwhile National Vice Chairman (South South) Ntufam Hilliard  Etta, the APC, INEC, and IGP seeking an order of perpetual injunction restraining Etta from parading himself either as the national vice chairman South-South Zone or as acting national chairman or as a holder of any office of the second defendant, until his suspension from the membership of the party his ward is lifted. LEADERSHIP recalls that at the height of the leadership crisis that rocked the APC, Ntufam Hilliard Eta acted as National Chairman of a faction Of the National Working Committee (NWC) that was believed to be backing the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC. However, the State Executive Committee of the APC, Cross River State has disclosed that Etta was not suspended by the party. The executives said that for purpose clarification, the said letter does not emanate from the party either is there any plan whatsoever to suspend the aforementioned party leader. The statement signed by the state publicity secretary, Bassey Ita and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday, dissociated the state executive from the said letter or publication. The statement reads in part: ‘’Cross River State has been drawn to a trending media report following a letter signed by one Chief Francis Ekpenyong alluding to the purported suspension of Ntufam Hilliard Eta by the party Exco. ‘’While we dissociate from the said letter or publication, we want to draw the attention of the public to the fact that the signatory to the said letter is known to be a dissident whose stock in trade is to cause mischief in the party for his commercial gains. ‘’The said signatory is not and has never been the Secretary of our party and can be better described as an impostor.’’ The executives said Etta’s membership of its party remains intact just as he has never committed any constitutional breach that would warrant his suspension. The statement, however, called on the party men and women to continue to put intrinsic confidence in its leaders and the leadership especially in the renewed and ongoing bid to reconcile and reunite various Interests and tendencies, ‘’Members of the public are also advised to disregard the said letter and the purported suspension as it is not a product of the Cross River State Executive Committee of our party. ‘’We salute the few Journalists and Media Personnel who have reached out to us for the true position of things. ‘’In same light we advise those who would wave the professional protocol of balance to always call us or do a thorough investigation of such stories as a way of sustaining the credibility of their publication and their outfits. ‘’We assure that we will be open to any journalist or media outfit that seeks to ascertain the veracity or otherwise of any claim or report,’’ the statement added. 