The Ajaokuta Steel Company (ASC) would require not less than 7 million tonnes (7mt) of raw iron ore from the National Iron Ore Mining Company (NIOMCO) for the first phase of its production when it becomes operational. Sole administrator of NIOMCO, Augustus Nkechika, disclosed this during an assessment visit to the mine and Ajaokuta Steel Company (ASC) at the weekend by a high powered delegation from  the senate led by the senate majority leader, Yahaya Abdullahi. He made the disclosure while reiterating the need to revamp the mine ahead of the steel plant. “The need to fully complete the rehabilitation of NIOMCO and also acquire additional mining equipment cannot be over emphasised because to meet the first phase of Ajaokuta’s production level alone, NIOMCO must be able to produce and process 7 million tonnes of raw iron ore annually. “And to sustain production for at least 15 to 20 years, sufficient stock pile of iron concentrates at both the Itakpe and Ajaokuta ends to serve as buffer in the event of temporary stoppage of haulage or production of concentrates is required. “Hence there is need for Itakpe to commence production of concentrates well ahead of the commencement of production by Ajaokuta,” he explained. Convinced by his explanation, the senators concluded that a technical audit was needed to be carried out, first on Itakpe and then Ajaokuta to ascertain the state of the infrastructure and the technological gap that needed to be filled as well as the financial implication. The senate leader said, “The most important thing now is a technical audit so as to provide the cost profile and the type of equipment required.’ The lawmakers also urged the management to make provision for the technical audit in the 2020 budget, stressing that as critical as the project, nothing whatsoever should be allowed to stand in its way. But the Minister of Mines and Steel Development,  Olamilekan Adegbite, who concurred with the senators on the indispensibility of the audit, said it was also within the build, operate, and transfer(BOT) deal sealed with Russia on the Ajaokuta project, adding that there were no plans to spend more of the country’s resources on the project. Chairman, Senate Committee, Solid Minerals, Mines and Steel, and Metallurgy and former governor of Nasarawa State, Sen. Tanko Almakura, said the audit has become so inevitable as it would also expose the gap in  technology, and look into ways of upgrading it to meet international standards.