The presidency and the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday slammed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over its call for the resignation of President Buhari. The PDP, through its national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, had asked President Buhari to throw in the towel over the state of affairs in the country. Secondus who addressed a press conference at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja further said the APC-led government was confused and had no direction. But hitting back at the opposition party, the presidency in a statement by the senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said President Buhari will not resign. Shehu noted that the opposition PDP cannot scare the government from probing the grave allegations made against MDAs and their chiefs because failure to do so will amount to a historic betrayal of public trust. Describing the PDP as suffering from undemocratic pandemic, he said the opposition party cannot subject Nigeria’s democracy to subterranean attacks and continue to pretend that they are well-meaning. The presidential spokesman said, “He (Buhari) is determined to continue the crusade against corruption, both legacy and recently unearthed cases, that are found to be shabbily handled, and in some cases unattended to by past administrations. The National Assembly, by virtue of its right to conduct its oversight function is currently carrying out own investigations. “Additionally, the security and intelligence agencies are equally doing their part and must be given the time and space to conclude their work and present their reports” Garba Shehu said in his statement. “At a time when the whole world is unifying to confront a common enemy, Nigeria’s opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has launched a whirlwind campaign promoting undemocratic values, the latest manifestation of which is the call for President Muhammadu Buhari’s resignation for allowing audits and investigation into several agencies of government, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. “Based on the statement issued by the embattled chairman of the Party, Prince Uche Secondus, it is clear that they would have liked the President to not investigate but to cover things up: to not wake the sleeping lion as voiced by another of their leaders. “In a democracy, an opposition party is as critical to the system as the ruling party but in the case of Nigeria, the leading party in opposition is afflicted by a life-threatening sickness, the undemocratic pandemic as a result of which they are trading away the nation’s democratic values. “The PDP government which exited the stage five years ago through a democratic election by voters dissatisfied with corruption on an industrial scale, policy paralysis, obsolete and decaying essential infrastructure appears to have forgotten the reason for their stunning defeat and seem hell-bent on the fooling the nation, yet again for another ride to power. Earlier, the APC described the statement by the PDP as “unintelligible rants”, adding that it is “not unconnected to the impending mass defections set to hit the failed opposition party.” In a statement by its deputy national publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena, the APC said, “The PDP calls for the resignation of the President. How silly! Nobody expects the PDP to provide ideas on good governance going by their inglorious past and antecedents. We only reiterate that the PDP stays quiet while the President Muhammadu Buhari administration clears the rot they foisted on the country. “Nigeria deserves a vibrant, purposeful and credible opposition not the laughing stock we have been subjected to in the name of the opposition PDP. It is well within the rights of PDP members to abandon a rudderless and sinking ship for the progressive fold. Going by the popular axiom: Why fly like a hen when you can soar like an Eagle? “We are particularly gladdened by the return of the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara to the APC.” Asking the president to resign, Secondus who had also lamented the series of probes and altercation by APC government officials said they were dramatic orchestrations designed to distract Nigerians from the magnitude of crisis affecting the country. The PDP chairman spoke against the backdrop of the spate of insecurity, the ongoing probes in the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). He specifically wondered why the probe of suspended EFCC boss, Ibrahim Magu is being done in the presidential Villa instead of an open court, stressing that it amounts to a secretive hearing. Secondus said, “The state of our nation today requires that all hands must be on deck especially you media practitioners who should not relent in holding public officers accountable. “Nigerians should not be distracted by the drama playing out at the various fraud case hearings whether in Aso Villa with Ibrahim Magu or at the National Assembly with two Ministers Akpabio and Chris Ngige, entertaining Nigerians, they are designs to remove public attention to the real issue. “In this country under the watch of President Buhari and his APC, we have found ourselves in the environment as the French economist, Federico Bastiat  said that “when plunder becomes a way of life for a group of men in a society, over the course of time they create for themselves a legal system that authorizes it and a moral code that glorifies it” This regime has found a code for corruption and they now glorify it and make fun of it. “What we are witnessing in our country today is a total collapse of the nation, the country is on ventilator gasping for air, under such circumstance, President Buhari should do the honourable thing required of an Elderstatesman in situations like this, THROW IN THE TOWEL because Nigeria is on a free fall and save the country from ruins”. On the spate of insecurity, Secondus said nothing establishes the fact that there is no governance in the country more than the worsening state of insecurity. “Having exhausted their propaganda of winning the war on terrorism only in their press releases, as reality endowed on all, both the military and political leaders are now helpless and confused”, he added.