As part of the preparation for the impending flood, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), set up a special committee for comprehensive response, mitigate and saving lives and also provide support to the communities at risk. Director General of NEMA, Air Vice Marshal Muhammadu Muhammed (rtd), while inaugurating the committee in Abuja said NEMA has adopted the strategy to improve on the management of flood situations in the country. In a statement signed by the press officer, NEMA, Manzo Ezekiel, the DG said “flood has been a perennial phenomenon in Nigeria that has caused widespread devastation, resulting in loss of lives and damages to personal property and the critical public infrastructure. “According to the 2020 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction, the general outlook of annual rainfall amount is predicted to be normal and above normal in Nigeria, thus some places are expected to have above normal rainfall which may result into flood. Already some communities have started to experience flash floods with associated impacts.” Represented by the Director Planning Research and Forecasting, Mr Kayode Fagbemi, the NEMA boss stated that “we are not going to wait to just respond to the forecasted flood this year. “We can proffer solutions to the perennial floods in our nation. We may not be able to determine the magnitude of the rain that may fall, but we can decide to help reduce the negative impact in our communities.” With the release of the Seasonal Rainfall Prediction (SRP) and Annual Flood Outlook (AFO) by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) and Nigerian Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA),  NEMA as commenced advocacy and awareness creation to mobilize all relevant stakeholders including the state governors and communities at risk to take necessary steps towards averting or minimizing losses from the predicted disaster. Members of the Committee are drawn from NEMA and representative from the stakeholders organizations including the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development.