...As SGF assures FG commitment to police reforms The Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has decorated ten newly promoted Senior Police Officers at the Force Headquarters, Abuja. The decoration ceremony comes on the heels of the recent promotion of 6,601 personnel of the Nigeria Police Force including one DIG, four AIGs, three CPs, three DCPs, eight CSPs, 607 SPs, 206 DSPs and 5,769 ASPs. Speaking at the ceremony, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha assured of the federal government’s commitment to the ongoing reforms of the Nigeria Police Force by the Inspector General of Police. The SGF congratulated the newly promoted officers and charged them to see the promotion as a call for improved services to the nation. Also speaking, the IGP noted that since his assumption of office in January, 2019, a total of 41,863 officers and men of the Force across different ranks have been promoted to their next ranks. He stated that the promotion exercises – a strategic management approach directed at motivating the workforce in addressing current and emerging internal security threats – have been guided by the principles of seniority and merit and reflective of records of discipline and invaluable experience. IGP Adamu, while congratulating the officers for their well-deserved elevation, charged them to deploy their intellect and demonstrate sound professional judgement in all their decisions at all times. The Officers decorated include: DIG Adeleye Olusola Oyebade, who until his promotion to the enviable rank of Deputy Inspector General of Police, was a directing staff at the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPPS). He has been deployed as the DIG in charge of the Department of Research and Planning. Also, in line with geo-political balancing considerations, he doubles as the DIG in-charge of the South-West geo-political zone of the country, a void created by the recent retirement of DIG Peter Babatunde Ogunyanwo. Others decorated are: AIG Amba Asuquo, AIG Nkereuwem Akpan, AIG Olafimihan Adeniran Adeoye, AIG Aishatu Abubakar, PhD, CP Jonathan Towuru, CP Sikiru Kayode Akande, DCP Johnson Oluwole Adenola and DCP Grema Jibir Isa.