The Chinese Embassy has donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to the wife of Nigeria’s president, Aisha Buhari on behalf of the First Lady of the Peoples Republic of China, Prof Peng Li-yuan. The items which include disposable masks and infrared thermometers were handed over to the senior special assistant to the president on Administration and Women Affairs, Dr Hajo Sani by the Counselor of the Chinese Embassy in Nigeria, Zhao Yong. In his opening remarks, he indicated that, “The sudden onslaught of COVID-19 has posed an enor-mous challenge to humanity. For countries to defeat the virus, solidarity, cooperation and mutual assistance are crucial. At the height of China’s battle against the virus, Nigeria gave solid support to China. This expression of profound friendship will always be remembered”. “Now, as Nigeria goes through this trying time, the First Lady of China, Professor Peng extends her heartfelt sympathy to Nigerian people. Today’s donation is the token of friendship towards the Nigerian people, particularly the Nigerian mother’s, children and young people”. “China and Nigeria are strategic partners. China will continue to support Nigeria’s fight against COVID-19. With our hands joining together, we have full confidence to defeat this common ene-my. As Chinese President, Xi Jinping stressed at the extraordinary China-Africa summit in solidarity against COVID-19 held last month. Humanity will ultimately defeat the virus and Chinese and Afri-can people are poised to embrace better days ahead,” he concluded. While appreciating the donations, Sani assured that the President’s wife would continue to do her best in the fight against COVID-19. Mrs Buhari has already given out palliatives such as medications to hospitals, hospital equipment, beds and face masks across the states of Nigeria. As such, this donation will add more to what her excellency is doing and encourage her to do more”. Hajo noted that in 2018, Mrs Buhari was one of the leading African First Ladies that were invited to the Forum On China Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Beijing, where leaders of African countries met with the President of China, Xi Jinping. Buhari was one of the African First ladies who were invited to attend a very long meeting with the First Lady of the Peoples Republic of China to discuss how they can work together in the area of HIV/AIDS. It was at that time that Prof Peng pledged and promised to do everything possible to support African First Ladies in their fight against HIV/AIDS. “She has kept this promise and that is why we are here. She has extended her collaboration and cooperation not only on HIV/AIDS but on the emerging issue of COVID-19. She thought it very im-portant to look round to her sisters in Africa to extend her support towards their fight against COVID-19,” Dr Hajo stated.