On Thursday, June 11, 2020, the 9th National Assembly celebrated its first legislative year after its inauguration on June 11, 2019. However, in the last six months, both chambers – Senate and House of Representatives – have all lost six members to the cold hands of death. In this report, BODE GBADEBO AND KAUTHAR ANUMBA-KHALEEL present the list of federal lawmakers who died as a result of various ailments, a development that is causing disquiet in the highest legislative arm of government. Four Senators have died in the Senate since the commencement of the 9th Assembly and it all happened between December, 2019 and just 25 days ago. In the House of Representatives, two members died within the period under review.  Benjamin Uwajumogu: Senator Uwajumogu was born on June 30, 1968 in Okigwe, Imo state. He represented Imo North senatorial district in the Senate on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He died on December 18, 2019 in Abuja after a brief illness. Before his elevation to the Senate, Uwajumogu was a Speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly.  Ignatius Longjan: Senator Longjan represented Plateau South in the Senate under the platform of the APC until his death on Sunday, February 9, 2020. He was the Vice Chairman of the Senate Committee on Culture and Tourrism. Prior to his election as Senator, he was a former deputy governor of Plateau State between 2011 and 2015. He died at the ripe age of 75 after battling with an illness.  Rose Oko: The late Cross River lawmaker was a second-term member of the Senate and the serving chairman, Senate Committee on Trade and Investment. Born on September 27, 1956, Oko had before her elevation to the Senate represented Yala/Ogoja Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives in the 7th Assembly. She was elected into office as the first female representative from her constituency in June 2011 and sat as Deputy Chairman of the House Committee on Education. Until her death, Senator Oko represented Cross River North Senatorial District under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Oko died on March 23, 2020 at the age of 63 in a hospital in London, United Kingdom. The cause of her death was undisclosed.  Bayo Osinowo: Senator Adebayo Osinowo represented Lagos East senatorial district in the 9th Senate. He first made his mark at the Lagos Civil Service and also at the Lagos State House Assembly where he served four terms before his election to the Senate in 2019 on the platform of APC. Osinowo was the chairman of the Senate Committee on Industries. He died on Monday, June 15, 2020 at 64. His death came a few days after the 9th Senate marked its first anniversary on June 11 and six months after the death of Senator Uwajumogu, four months after that of Senator Longjan, and less than three months after that of Senator Oko.  Jafaru Iliyasu Auna: The Niger State lawmaker represented Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency in the Green Chamber. He was elected to the House under the platform of the APC in 2019. Hon. Auna was a member of various committees of the House. He died on Monday, December 2, 2019 after a brief illness at the Maitama General Hospital, Abuja, a day after returning from a retreat organised by the House Committee on Public Accounts in Lagos.  Mohammed Adamu Fagen-Gawo: Hon. Fagen-Gawo was born in 1950. He was first elected into the House in 2015 under the platform of APC, and won re-election for a second term in 2019 to represent Garki/Bubara Federal Constituency of Jigawa State.  Fagen-Gawo’s death came less than a month after Hon. Auna died. He died on December 31, 2019 at 64 in the United Arab Emirates, while on a medical trip for an undisclosed illness.