As the candidates for the September 19 governorship election in Edo State begin to sell their manifestos to the electorate, INNEH BARTH, examines the chances and qualities of the candidates. The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, a fortnight ago released what it called provisional list of candidates of various political parties, for the Edo State governorship election, calling on citizens who have issues with the candidates regarding their eligibility to come forward with petitions. So far, 14 political parties fielded candidates as released by INEC in a  contest that political analysts described as a two horse race. Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party and Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are the most notable names on the provisional list. Both candidates have swapped the platforms on which they contested in the 2016 election won by Obaseki who is confident of victory for a second term in office.  Obaseki Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, born 1 July, 1957 in Benin City, a politician and businessman, who is currently serving as the Executive Governor of Edo State. He was sworn in as the governor on 12 November 2016. He was the Chairman of the Edo State Economic and Strategy Team inaugurated by former Governor Adams Oshiomhole in March 2009. Though he has fallen out with Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, a man who aided him to power, he is confident of a second term victory on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party South South zone which is the strong hold of the party. Governor Obaseki is expected to muster the support of the five PDP governors in the zone who it is believed will stop at nothing to prove that the zone remains a PDP stronghold. As a serving governor, Obaseki is politically on ground and is reported to have executed reasonable projects which can earn him second term but his political battle with his former boss, Oshiomhole poses a serious threat to his reelection bid. However, whether or not the governor is able to utilise the power of incumbency, remains to be seen.  Ize-Iyamu Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, born on June 21, 1962, he is a pastor, politician, former Chief of Staff and Secretary to the Edo State government under governor Lucky Igbienedion. He was the gubernatorial candidate of the People’s Democratic Party for the 2016 Edo State gubernatorial election were he lost to the incubent. He was the National vice-chairman, South South Zone of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). Ize-Iyamu served as director general of Adams Oshiomhole’s 2nd term Campaign Organisation. He was also the Coordinator of Goodluck/Sambo Campaign Organisation in the build up to 2015 general elections. Recently, he was honoured by the Benson Idahosa University with an honorary doctorate degree in Public Administration. He is currently the All Progressives Congress (APC), candidate and a pastor in the Redeemed Church. He is reported to be a grassroots mobiliser and now he is the candidate of the ruling party. Pastor Ize-Iyamu, from Orhionmwon Local Government Area, was the candidate of the PDP in the 2016 Edo State gubernatorial election, an election he lost narrowly to the incumbent governor. Ize-Iyamu garnered 41.28 per cent (253,173) of the total votes cast against the 52.09 per cent (319,483) the incumbent who contested under the platform of the ruling APC in 2016. But whether these factors will work out well for him remains to be seen.  Agolebun As the race for the Edo Governorship elections gets hotter as the days go by, one thing is certain- there won’t be any free ride for the candidates. With the main and strongest opposition parties being APC and PDP and with men as their candidates, here is a woman who has vowed to become the next and first female governor of Edo State, Mrs Ebunoluwa Tracy Agolebun. She is the only woman set to battle Obaseki and others for the Edo governorship seat. Mrs Ebunoluwa Tracy Agolebun, who emerged the governorship candidate of her party ‘New Nigeria People’s Party’ (NNPP) is set to contest in the Edo Governorship elections slated for September 19, 2020. According to reports, she won the primaries after all aspirants came together to support her and her campaign team to make sure she emerged victorious in the forthcoming governorship elections. However, with current governor, Godwin Obaseki and Ize – Iyamu emerging victorious in the party primaries for APC and PDP respectively, it seems Comrade Agolebun has a difficult battle to fight in the forthcoming governorship elections.  Ozono Mr Stevie Nash Ozono, is the candidate of National Rescue Mission (NRM), a Digital Marketing and IT Consultant with 20 years’ success leading technology innovation and business operations. He is coming in with a professional background on the platform of a relatively unknown party, but how far can he go to occupy the Osadebe House?  Akhigbe Dr Benjamin Akhigbe is the gubernatorial candidate of the African Democratic Congress(ADC) in Edo State. Akhigbe, a foremost medical scientist and grassroots mobiliser, hails from Esan North Local Government Area of Edo State. Will Edo people entrust him with their mandates? Only time will tell.  Osalumese The APP candidate, Pastor Amos Osalumese Areloegbe, a Chartered Accountant, a pastor and now a gubernatorial candidate. According to him, “It was not my ambition to be a governor but the almighty God spoke to me to do so. I am a Chartered Accountant by training and I worked briefly. I was a pastor in the Living Faith Church, as well as in the Reverend Chris Oyakhilome’s church. I also wanted to start my own ministry when the call came that I should come and lead the people of Edo State as Governor.” Can a miracle lead him to the coveted seat? Only a matter of weeks will reveal that. Other candidates who will also battle for resident, especially eligible voters in the Edo Government House include, Ibio Lucky Emmanuel of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Lucky Osagie Idehen of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Igbineweka Osamuede of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). Also listed are Osifo Uhun-Ekpenma Isaiah of the Labour Party (LP), Felix Ikezoe Obayangbon of the SDP, Jones Osagiobare of Young Progressive Party (YPP), and Akhalamhe Amiemenoghena of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP). However, a 35-year-old Obhafuoso Paul of the Action Alliance (AA) is the youngest candidate on the list who is riding on the crest of ‘Not Too Young To Rule’. But how far can he go in a contest? That will be largely determined by power of incumbency and federal might, and remains to be seen. With the stage now set for the epic battle no doubt, all eyes are on the two major political parties – the ruling All Progressives Congress in the country and the ruling party in the state, and the Peoples Democratic Party. Political pundits have argued that one of the two political parties is likely going to produce the next governor of the state.