 The Abuja to Kaduna train service, which was, hitherto, closed due to outbreak of coronavirus, COVID-19 pandemic will resume operations from July 29, 2020. This was revealed by the minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi on Saturday when he inspected the Abuja to Kaduna stations. The minister also reveal that President Mohammedu Buhari has also approved the upward reviewed fares for the railway stations as follows: economy class, N3,000, business class N6,000. He stated that “we even proposed higher fare but the president approved that we should leave it at that price.” The minister said most people using the train can afford to pay the fare and most people are of the opinion that it is noting compared to the risk of kidnappers on the road. On the commercial activities on Itakpe to Warri, he said “the axis is more lucrative than the Abuja-Kaduna because by the time the Nweke project start, they will have to be conveying the pipes from Warri seaport to Itakpe but in terms of passenger burden, we have moved from 300 passengers per day to 4500 passengers per day, so in terms of passenger volume the Abuja-Kaduna railway is higher. Speaking on the Lagos railway, the minister said ” we need about 1000 workers to work on Ebutte Metta station and we are only working with 10. The two things we can do is to either run skeletal services and be running two services one going and one coming that means they will be using the double tracks but they won’t be using the stations and if they have to use the stations, nobody should complain that they are uncompleted stations. We will only do that if there is heavy pressure on traffic, if not, they may have to wait till the stations are ready. “We had targeted May, 2020 for completion and they were working towards that but unfortunately COVID-19 came, so we told them to complete the small stations cause that one is easy. 10 persons can complete that station but the biggest station in Ebutte Metta they will need about 1000 workers on site and we don’t want to risk that because of spread of the virus.” Also speaking on the Ibadan-Kano project, Amaechi said “we are still waiting for money, on the tweet, I never tweeted anything I don’t have any Facebook or Twitter account the only social account I have is WhatsApp. Have you ever seen me tweet before, I didn’t say you should disregard any information from my account cause I have staff who may be doing such.”