The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of plotting to use fabrications in a section of the media to arm-twist the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to manipulate the Edo State governorship election for its candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. The party said that in sponsoring fake reports that PDP leaders were putting pressure on INEC chairman, Prof. Yakubu Mahmood, on the Edo election, the APC has further exposed its hopelessness over their rejection by the Edo people and now seeks to blackmail the Commission. A statement by PDP national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “Whereas we understand APC’s despondency over the soaring popularity of our party and candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, the APC is worsening its  woes by sponsoring fabrications against the expressed will of the people of Edo State to re-elect Governor Obaseki in the September election. “The APC, by now, should know that attempting to rig, by any way whatsoever, will surely be met with stiff resistance and dire consequences from the people. Our party counsels the APC to blame nobody but themselves for having a discredited nomination process and being stuck with a blighted candidate, who has now become a symbol of a direct affront by corrupt political godfathers and cabal to the will, ability and liberty of the people of Edo State to chose their own leader. “The APC should blame themselves for presenting a candidate who was exposed by their party’s former National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, as a person of questionable character, a treasury looter, acid bather, rusticated student; a politician, who is only good for ‘night meetings’ and unfit to hold office as governor of Edo State. “The APC should also hold Oshiomhole responsible for indicting its candidate as a ‘fake pastor’ that started carrying the Holy Bible because he could not practice as a barrister. “It is indeed disgraceful that 73 days to the election, all the APC has to offer is blackmail against our leaders, after its plans to derail the election has been exposed. “It is common knowledge among Nigerians that characters, such as ‘gandollar’, the killers in the Kogi election as well as manipulators in the Imo election, being paraded by the APC as the face of their campaign in Edo State, were foisted into office through rigging, bloodletting and manipulation of election results.