The Presidential Task Force (PTF)  on Covid-19 has urged state government to ban Sallah festivities scheduled for next week to curb the spread of the pandemic. Secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha made the appeal during the PTF briefing in Abuja. According to him, Sallah festivities comes with a lot of mass gatherings and Nigerians must not forget that pandemic guidelines are still in place. He said “We also have cause to begin to advise Nigerians on the upcoming Eid-El Kabir Festival. This naturally comes with lots of mass gatherings but we must not forget that the guidelines are still in existence and the virus is very potent. “We urge all State Governments to ensure that guidelines are adhered to and citizens should not indulge in activities that would allow for the spread of the virus and lives are endangered. “We are encouraged by State Governments that have announced ban on Sallah Festivities and hope it will be upheld and replicated by other States. The National Coordinator will also amplify on these issues. Mustapha said going forward the task force may resort to virtual briefings to minimize risk of contacting the virus. “As we progress however, the PTF might consider restructuring the mode of delivering some of its activities, relying more on technology, to minimize the risks associated with avoidable physical contacts,” he added . TF Urges States To Ban Sallah Festivities Jonathan Nda- Isaiah The Presidential Task Force (PTF)  on Covid-19 has urged state government to ban Sallah festivities scheduled for next week to curb the spread of the pandemic. Secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha made the appeal during the PTF briefing in Abuja. According to him, Sallah festivities comes with a lot of mass gatherings and Nigerians must not forget that pandemic guidelines are still in place. He said “We also have cause to begin to advise Nigerians on the upcoming Eid-El Kabir Festival. This naturally comes with lots of mass gatherings but we must not forget that the guidelines are still in existence and the virus is very potent. “We urge all State Governments to ensure that guidelines are adhered to and citizens should not indulge in activities that would allow for the spread of the virus and lives are endangered. “We are encouraged by State Governments that have announced ban on Sallah Festivities and hope it will be upheld and replicated by other States. The National Coordinator will also amplify on these issues. Mustapha said going forward the task force may resort to virtual briefings to minimize risk of contacting the virus. “As we progress however, the PTF might consider restructuring the mode of delivering some of its activities, relying more on technology, to minimize the risks associated with avoidable physical contacts,” he added .