In this interview with ZAKA KHALIQ, the group managing director, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc and outgoing president of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), Mr Eddie Efekoha, discussed  his tenure in office and other sundry issues. At your investiture as the 49th president of CIIN, a number of laudable projects were outlined. To what extent were you able to accomplish them? Foremost on the agenda was ensuring that professional members of the Institute acquired cutting edge skills that match up with global standards and enable them to compete favourably with their counterparts in other sectors. During my tenure, there was growth and development in the intellectual capacity of members and also the infrastructure of the CIIN and  by extension, the College of Insurance and Financial Management which is its training arm. The relationship between the Institute and the CII UK was strengthened and among some of the fruits therefrom were revision of syllabus and the domestication of CII textbooks which were launched in June 2020. Similarly, the Institute’s mentorship programme was actualised with the organisation of an inaugural bootcamp where industry leaders shared experiences with young professionals with the aim of inspiring them to strive for greater achievements. The event also had Mr. Niyi Adesanya, a renowned life coach deliver a very impactful paper on leadership. Furthermore, the college has become the focal point for human capital development for the insurance industry in Nigeria. This is evidenced by the partnership between the college and National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) which resulted in the first ever Insurance Directors Conference and recently in the Actuarial Development Programme. This is not forgetting the tremendous infrastructural development at the college. The college campus now has a standard tennis court, well-furnished accommodation both for students, staff and visitors. We also recently commenced the construction of a world-class auditorium, a N300 million project kicked off with a ceremony in November 2019, for which an initial seed fund of N100 million was immediately provided. Also worthy of note during my tenure was the active advocacy for the adoption and implementation of compulsory insurance at various levels of government and which took institute to various states within the country.  One of the projects in your agenda was equipping accredited insurance departments of tertiary institutions across the country. How successful were you in this regard? The CIIN, under my tenure, made remarkable progress by building on the work of my predecessors. We donated two complete sets of CIIN course books to seven institutions of higher learning namely: University of Lagos, University of Uyo, Enugu State University of Technology, Ekiti State University, Niger Delta University, Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic and College of Insurance and Financial Management. In total, 462 course-books were presented to these institutions. In the same vein, the CIIN Insurance Textbook for Senior Secondary School Students was also donated to secondary schools in Delta State in line with the Institute’s initiative geared towards promoting insurance as a career choice for secondary school leavers.  Making CIIN Examinations affordable and accessible was part of your mandate, how well did you achieve that? I must say that this was successfully achieved regardless of rising inflation and costs in the country. The fees for the CIIN professional examinations have not been increased and remain the most affordable when compared to what similar professional bodies charge. The CIIN has also continuously advocated for insurance organisations support for staff writing professional examinations. This has accounted partly for the increase in enrolment rate for the examinations. Secondly, under my tenure, the CIIN instituted scholarships for best students in insurance in various tertiary institutions while we have preserved the discounts offered to students in tertiary institutions writing the Institute’s examinations.  What is the impact of COVID-19 on activities of the Institute? The Institute like other organisations in the world has been affected by the pandemic, however, this has brought about positive innovations in its service delivery. While our professional examinations have been put on a temporary hold, we are rigorously exploring digital means of conducting our examinations and training including relating with our members. The foray into virtual training began with the recent CIIN/CIFM webinar themed: ‘Insurance Value Delivery in the Pandemic and Beyond: A New Reality’ which was aimed at sensitising our members about the need to ensure value delivery in the adoption of technology. While the planning of digital examinations which is the ultimate is still in progress, we are awaiting a relaxation of restrictions and rules from government to conduct the postponed examinations due in the first diet in year 2020. The CIFM, on the other hand, now conducts all its training programmes online, including certification workshops, that is, agents and bancassurance officers together with the diploma programme. One of the exciting opportunities that the pandemic has created is the ability to collaborate with foreign experts in the college thereby bringing training programmes of global standard to our members at affordable prices. This is a reflection of the fact that the Institute is a very dynamic organisation with tremendous human and capital resources.  Going forward, how prepared is the Institute for new normal? Permit me to reiterate that the Institute is a dynamic organisation that has continuously adapted to past and ongoing global challenges. This is our success factor. Before now, we embarked on the digitisation project which sets us on the path to effectively and efficiently accomplish our statutory functions. Hence, adapting to the new normal has been made easier than it would have been. The vision of the Institute is to become a digital organisation using technology to drive value delivery to all stakeholders both internal and external.  In 35 years of your insurance practice, in what other ways have you contributed to the growth of the industry? My professional life has been dedicated to personal and industry growth. I have tirelessly pursued the development of the industry through education and enlightenment. I accepted responsibilities to serve in various capacities in the CIIN in response to my personal desire to see the industry grow. I have also served as the chairman of the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) and still retain a seat on the governing council of the association. At the time of my chairmanship, I initiated and concluded work on charting a course for industry culminating in a strategy document (Industry Roadmap – Vision 2027) that the association is working with to grow the industry. This is in addition to ensuring the commencement of the construction of an edifice for NIA, among other things. I have been privileged to set up insurance institutions and today, to the glory of God, I am the group managing director of Consolidated Hallmark Plc, an organisation that employs over 300 staff nationwide. At every opportunity to serve, I have strived to leave a legacy that will engender the growth and acceptance of insurance as a profession and as a service. Having received mentorship from various industry giants such as Mr. Amos Adeyeye of Hogg Robinson, where I started my incursion into the profession, I have in turn, served as mentor to a lot of practitioners some of which have become heads of insurance institutions. I have been able to inculcate the success factors of the insurance profession that have worked for me which are professionalism, hard work and integrity.  What were the challenges you faced as the 49th president of the CIIN? Aside the challenge of adapting to the new normal which has been forced on us, I personally was challenged by my desire to achieve the best I could during my tenure. Having had 48 presidents before me who had consistently raised the bar in ensuring the Institute remained relevant to the insurance industry, it became imperative that I must continue on the growth pedestal of the Institute because that was the only option for me. To the glory of God, we have been able to achieve so much over the past two years and the experience has made long lasting impressions on me personally. 