The Deputy governor of Kaduna State, Dr Hadiza Balarabe, has said that public institutions need to endeavour to be more transparent in their various activities in order for the trust of the citizens in them to be rebuilt. She made the statement at an online conference organised by Connected Development (CODE), a civic society organisation with theme, ‘Rebuilding Trust In Public Institutions.’ According to Dr Balarabe, “The issue of trust in public institutions is not peculiar to Nigeria alone, as many countries around the world are also under pressure to meet rising citizens’ expectations. In Kaduna, the government has rebuilt trust by providing functioning primary healthcare centres, laying-off incompetent teachers and revamping the education system in the state. “Trust has been rebuilt because young people are at the fore-front of industrialisation in Kaduna State and they have been delivering enormously for the state. Also, signing up with Open Government Partnership has fostered the state’s culture of transparency and accountability. As a result, the level of trust built has attracted over $500,000 in investment. “Kaduna also publishes her annual audit report yearly, organizes town hall meetings to get feedback from the people and is focused on reforming the public sector, retrenching merit in their recruitment processes, in an effort to dispel the misconception that citizens have towards the government.” The senior programme officer, MacArthur Foundation, Dr Amina Salihu, one of the guest speakers, said that, “Trust is earned as a result of being accountable, responsive and capable and civil society organisations are strategic pathfinders who need to enable citizens to recognise their right to access basic needs and improved public services and how they can use their voices and actions to drive change. “We need to give a lot more chances to women and expand the space to change how government is structured.” While speaking, a board member, Ministry of Finance, Dr Joe Abba, said,” “Leaders must take initiative, rise to the occasion of responsibility and show examples for people to start believing in the system. There is the need for public officials to openly declare their assets. Government constantly going against its laws and policies is a breach of trust. “You can only rebuild trust by trusting, it is important for citizens to hold the government accountable and monitor them. Even if you don’t trust the government, we need to continue to engage and also put in mechanisms to make it difficult for people to breach trust.” Mr Fisayo Soyombo, who is an investigative journalist, said, “Most of the things that we consume as news are actually PR. This shows that journalists are being manipulated especially because they are not well paid. “Government must be responsible for providing better governance, the media must ensure that public institutions are not deceiving citizens by engaging more investigative reporting. If we want a media that is more alive, people have to support good journalism.” While buttressing the points made by the speakers, the chief executive officer of Connected Development, Mallam Hamzat Lawal, said that, “In 2019, what we learnt engaging government MDAs post elections informed our overall objective at Connected Development (CODE), which was to begin a campaign that was intended to increase trust among citizens and government. “CODE’s strategy was to create platforms for informed debate between public institutions and citizens and also advocate for more government agencies to leverage digital communications to foster trust, increase transparency and ensure better accountability. This has led us to organise this conference that seeks to increase conversations and raise citizens and government’s consciousness towards rebuilding trust.” According to Kevwe Oghide, CODE’S Communications Lead, “it may not be a total cure; transparent and accountable governance offers a glimmer of hope against the flood of public mistrust. Constant communication has the possibility of opening public institutions to greater public understanding and appreciation.” 