President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the immediate and indefinite suspension from office of the managing director/chief executive of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), Mr. Adebayo Somefun. But the management of NSITF has countered reports that it had been sacked and replaced by the minister of Labour, Dr Chris Ngige. Reacting to media reports of the purported sack, the NSITF management led by Somefun, said that the minister lacked the powers to sack the leadership of any parastatal. But the earlier statement issued by the deputy director, Press and Public Relations at the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mr Charles Akpan, said that also suspended from office are several directors and management staff of the Fund. They included executive director, Finance and Investment, Mr. Jasper Ikedi Azuatala;  executive director, Operations, Mrs. Olukemi Nelson and executive director, Administration, Alhaji Tijani Darazo Sulaiman. Some management staff who were suspended were general manager, Administration/Human Resources/Maintenance, Mr. Olusegun Olumide Bashorun; general manager, Finance, Mr. Lawan Tahir; general manager, Claims and Compensation, Mr. Chris Esedebe Others were deputy general manager, Investment and Treasury Management, Mr. Olodotun A. Adegbite; deputy general manager, Administration, Ms. Dorathy Zajeme Tukura; deputy general manager/acting head, Legal, Mrs. Olutoyin O. Arokoyo, deputy general manager,  Finance and Accounts, Mr. Emmanuel Enyinnaya Sike and the assistant general manager, Internal Audit, Mrs. Victoria Ayantuga Their suspension from office, according to the statement, arose from the preliminarily established prima facie infractions on the extant Financial Regulations and Procurement Act, and other acts of gross misconduct. Meanwhile, President Buhari has charged the newly inaugurated chairman and members of the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), in the face of serious shortfall in the nation’s earnings occasioned by COVID-19 pandemic, to drive the necessary process to mobilise funds from the non-oil sector. The secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, spoke on expectations from chairmen and members of Federal Character Commission (FCC) and Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) and the Revenue Mobilization, Allocation And Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), after inauguration by President Buhari at the State House Abuja. He told State House Correspondents at the end of the ceremony which also had Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Kwara State governor, Abdulrazaq Abdulrahma, the chief of staff, Professor Ibrahim Gambari and ministers, said that President Buhari wants the three commissions to take their constitutional responsibilities seriously so that the administration will deliver on its Next Level agenda to the Nigerians. Members of RMAFC sworn-in are Ahmed Yusuf from Taraba; Bello Wamakko from Sokoto; Oladele Gboyega from Osun; Adamu Dibai from Borno; Alfred Egba from Bayelsa and Hajiya Salamatu Bala from Adamawa. The president swore in Muheeda Dankaka as the chairman of the FCC and 36 other members of the board. The members included Henry Ogbulogo (Abia), Salihu Bello (Adamawa), Dorah Daniel (Akwa Ibom), Ibeabuchi Uche, (Anambra), Mohammed Tijjani, (Bauchi), Tonye Okio (Bayelsa) and Silas Macikpah (Benue). Others were Abba Ali Monguno (Borno), Nsor Atamgba (Cross River), Alims Agoda (Delta), Tobias Chukuemeka (Ebonyi), Imuetinyan Festus (Edo), Sesan Fatoba (Ekiti), Ginika Tor (Enugu). Hamza Mohammed (Gombe), Diogu Uche, (Imo) and Lawan Ya’u Roni (Jigawa). Also sworn-in were Hadiza Muazu (Kaduna), Mohammed Na’iya (Kano), Lawal Garba (Katsina), Abubakar Atiku Bunu (Kebbi), Idris Bello (Kogi), Are Bolaji (Lagos), Nasir Isa Kwarra (Nasarawa), and Suleiman Barau (Niger). Others sworn in were Abiodun Akinlade (Ogun), Olufemi Omosanya (Ondo), Adeoye Olalekan (Osun) Adeniyi Olowofela (Oyo), Stephen Jings (Plateau), Wokocha Augustine (Rivers), Abdullahi Tafida (Sokoto), Alhaji Armaya’u Abubakar (Taraba), Jibril Maigari (Yobe), Sani Garba (Zamfara) and Adamu Sidi-Ali (Federal Capital Territory) For the Federal Civil Service Commission, two members were sworn-in. They include, Dr Jonah Madugu from Plateau State, (Representing Plateau, Benue and Nasarawa States) and Dr Fredrick Ekwem from Imo State, (Representing Imo and Abia States.) 