The clamour for the deregulation of Nigeria’s downstream sector gained currency long before the coronavirus pandemic which unfortunately, has continued to take its toll on not just the nation’s economy but the global economy, enveloped the world. Because oil remains the major driver of Nigeria’s economy, talks about resetting the economy in the midst of the ravaging effect of COVID-19 pandemic cannot, in all modesty, be complete without taking cognizance of the seeming endless debate about repositioning the oil and gas sector. Indeed, the call for deregulation of the sector has, as should be expected, placed a burden on key players in the industry even as Nigerians continue to analyse the roles performed by each of these industry players. Unarguably, one industry player whose role is instrumental in this clamour for the nation to prioritise economic recovery post COVID-19 is the Petroleum Equalisation Fund (Management) Board-PEF (M) B. The Petroleum Equalisation Fund (Management) Board-PEF(M)B, a Parastatal of the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, was established by Decree No.9 of 1975 (as amended by Decree No. 32 of 1989), mainly to administer uniform prices of petroleum products throughout Nigeria. This is achieved by reimbursing a marketer’s transportation differentials for petroleum products movement from depots to their sales outlets (filling station), in order to ensure that products are sold at uniform pump price throughout the country. By implication, in the absence of the agency, a petroleum product marketer who has transported fuel from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri would have to add the cost of transporting the products to the pump-prices and this would have resulted in selling the products at a higher price in Maiduguri than in Port Harcourt. It is an established fact that there is near absence of alternative means of transportation of petroleum products except by road network. Today, due to what some critics claim is a deliberate effort caused by negligence of the nation’s railway coupled with the frequent vandalism of petroleum pipelines, the only realistic option of transporting petroleum products is the use of trucks. From inception, the board was charged with the performance of two basic functions, namely: the administration of price equalization scheme to ensure the sustenance of government policy of uniform pump prices for petroleum products nationwide and the administration of bridging payment scheme to complement the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) pipeline distribution network of petroleum products to all the depot areas nationwide, during breakdown/maintenance of local refineries and or pipeline breaks/vandalisation. However, with the later aim becoming a permanent reality as the refineries and pipelines are now moribund, PEF (B)M, as an institution has become a market stabilizer. Increasingly, the agency is playing dominant role in ensuring price uniformity across the country. But how does PEF(M) B operates? As stated earlier, the Board was created to facilitate the sale of the products at uniform prices as approved by the Federal Government throughout the country. To implement this role, the board over the years has structured strategic means of meeting up with its key role of reimbursement of marketers through various claims verification processes which includes the Bridging Claims. The bridging scheme was originally introduced as a temporary measure during turn-around maintenance (TAM) wherein government sought to encourage and support marketers in transporting petroleum products nationwide. An industry player, Festus Adewale told our correspondent that the bridging was meant to be a temporary solution until the refineries were producing at full capacity. ‘But unfortunately, the state of the refineries has worsened over the years’ Adewale who has spent close to three decades in the oil and gas sector’, enthused. It is observed that the initial projection was to have a maximum of 10% of total petroleum products bridged while the remaining portion will be pumped through the pipelines. However, trend analysis indicate that bridging of products have consistently increased over the years to about 40%. There is also a noticeable trend whereby products are bridged from Lagos to the South East and South-South areas of the country to address products unavailability from the refineries in Port Harcourt and Warri. Aside the Bridging Claims, PEF (M) B also handles the Inter-District Claims which was introduced upon realizing that some products movement to certain parts of the country did not qualify for reimbursement under the bridge scheme despite the additional transportation costs incurred by marketers who move their products across depot districts under 450 kilometres but without full bridging support. This scheme is a crossbreed created to facilitate movement of products from one district depot to another to ensure availability of products in areas of scarcity. The level of inter-district movements has increased so rapidly as a result of shortage in available products. There is also the National Transportation Allowance (NTA) or equalisation which many believed, is the original function of the board and was restricted to eight major marketing companies at inception. Like the Bridging and inter-district schemes, it has been extended to the existing six major marketing companies, Depot and Petroleum Product Marketers Association (DAPPMA) operators and over 9,000 Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) members. For effective implementation of the equalisation function to achieve the uniform pricing of petroleum products, the country was divided into depot district, and as such district were further sub-divided into zones. A depot district is the part of the country served by particular depot. There are presently 21 depot districts. The districts are further sub divided into bands of 50 kilometres each known as zones. These zones are progressive bands of 50km radius, with the depots as the centre-point to the maximum of 9 (nine) zones, that is a total of 450km. Each outlet is allocated to a depot, and the distance between them applied in determining the transport cost of moving the product, which is the only variable factor in uniform pricing. This arrangement is affected by the use of the Transportation Differential Zone (TDZ) Map. To effect equalisation, all marketers are required to submit returns to the PEF (M) B in relation to products lifted from each depot to the respective zones within the district. The net effect of the returns culminates in either Claims from, or Contribution to the fund. For every litre of petroleum product transported within zones 1 and 2, the marketer has a Transport Allowance built into the price of the products which the marketers hold in trust on behalf of the consumer, and is required to turn it over to the Board. Also, for every litre of product transported from zone 3 through to zone 9, the additional submits claims to PEF (M) B for the additional Transportation Average (NTA). The board will thus reimburse the marketer for the losses incurred, solely and exclusively, for transporting the products for sale at a uniform price in those zones. Of what benefit is PEF (M) to Nigerians? Goddy Nnadi is the Fund’s General Manager Corporate Services. He told our correspondent that PEF(M) has been playing a stabilization role and insisted that without the agency, scores of Nigerians would have been buying petroleum products at ridiculously higher prices. The ordinary Nigerian no doubt approves and enjoys availability, stable and uniform pump prices of petroleum products due to its numerous economic value additions. For instance, economic experts propagate that PEF (M)B’s activities which leads to price stability in the market translates to reduction in inflation level, thus supporting the consumer and the economy. This is particularly important as virtually every single business engagement has energy input. Similarly, the availability of petroleum products saves a lot of man-hours as the time workers spend looking for products when they are scarce is saved. The time saved would be used in many ways that are more productive. Similarly, adulteration of petroleum products which is usually blamed on scarcity have been eliminated, thus reducing the possibility of explosions, which lead to loss of lives and property as well as physical injuries to victims. In fact, the PEF (M) B has made it possible for marketers to deliver products to the doorsteps of customers, regardless of the difficulties of terrains, such as the mountainous and riverine areas of Nigeria. According to market analyst, Tunde Amos, “The bridging system managed by the Petroleum Equalisation Fund enhances the well-being of every resident of Nigeria.” There is no contesting the fact that every economy has some form of subsidy for its citizens. In advanced economies like the US and the United Kingdom, government provides subsidy to farmers aside from social packages for the unemployed and the aged. Allowed to be determined by the market forces, without the government putting in anything, the price of petrol for instance, will be way beyond the reach of an average Nigerian. Indeed, it is in a bid to assuage this that the PEF was birthed. And without any iota of doubt, the agency has lived up to its calling. But for PEF, and its policy of bridging, residents of areas far flung from where the fuel is being refined, will have to be purchasing this inelastic commodity at an outrageous price. Musa Dankaka is retired teacher who is currently into oil and gas business. He told our correspondent that those agitating for the scrapping of PEF (M) are either ignorant of its ‘laudable role or are just being too naive’. “Without PEF, most of the filling stations currently in business with the multiplier effect of jobs for many unemployed youths will disappear. The economic activities that go around filling stations which are scattered in all corners of the country will naturally disappear once PEF is scrapped. “To deregulate fully means marketers are at liberty to import and sell the product at the prices they so wish. Of course, average Nigerians will bear the brunt because the fact that an increase in price of fuel has a multiplier effect on the prices of other essential commodities and indeed, transportation cannot be underestimated. The proponents of deregulation assert that once that is done, there will be competition and prices will naturally go down. But one is compelled to jettison such thinking because the complete deregulation of AGO has not translated into cheaper price.  When AGO was deregulated, the last price was N78 per litre and today, Nigerians are buying it at over N2oo per litre. “Those advocating for deregulation, especially the marketers, are asking government to sell dollars to them at a rebate, allow them to import fuel and then fix the price. If this doesn’t amount to asking someone to give you money so you can buy something and sell it to him at a price you so determine, then nothing is” he posited.