Torrent of tributes by eminent Nigerians yesterday resurrected the heroic exploits of the late media and business mogul, veteran journalist, philanthropist and life patron of Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN), Mallam Ismaila Isa Funtua, who was buried in Abuja. The late elder statesman and President Muhammadu Buhari’s close friend and associate died on Monday night at the age of 78 after a brief illness. He died of cardiac arrest during a medical checkup at an undisclosed medical facility. The remains of the late Isa Funtua was buried at the Gudu Cemetery, Abuja after the Janaza (funeral prayers) were held for the deceased at the Shehu Shagari Central Mosque, Area 1, Garki, Abuja after the mid-afternoon prayers which was attended by eminent personalities. Senate president, Ahmed Lawan, described the late Funtua as a man who touched many lives and impacted on the development of Nigeria. Lawan described as painful the death of the business mogul, even as he expressed his heartfelt condolences to the family of the late businessman, community leader, social and political activist and nationalist. In a statement by his media adviser, Ola Awoniyi, the Senate president said, “The news of the death of Mallam Isa Funtua left me with profound sadness. “He was a man who touched many lives and impacted the development of Nigeria with his foresight, enterprise, boundless enthusiasm, magnetism, friendliness and accommodating spirit”. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and his deputy, Ahmed Wase expressed sadness over the death of Mallam Isa Funtua. In separate statements issued yesterday in Abuja, the Speaker and his deputy described Funtua’s demise as painful. Gbajabiamila said Funtua, who was a lifetime patron of NPAN and the International Press Institute, lived a life full of service to humanity. On his part, the chairman of Northern Governors Forum (NGF) and governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, said the Isa Funtua in a condolence message said Funtua’s death was a loss to the nation. Lalong said Funtua distinguished himself in the journalism profession where he played critical roles for freedom of expression and the press. The chairman North Central Governors Forum and Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, commiserated with President Buhari over the death of his close political associate Malam Isa Funtua. Governor Sani Bello who expressed sadness over the loss of Mallam Isa Funtua said, the deceased “was an elder statesman, a successful businessman and a highly respected personality, considering his wealth of knowledge and experience who will be greatly missed”. Describing his death as a great loss to his family, Katsina State, and the nation at large, the governor prayed Allah to grant the deceased Aljannah Firdausi and give his family and close associates the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. Gombe State governor, Alhaji Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, also commiserated with President Buhari, the government and people of Katsina State as well as family and associates of  the late Isa Funtua over the demise of the business mogul and elder statesman. In a statement by his senior special assistant on media and publicity, Ismaila  Uba Misilli, Governor Yahaya described the deceased as patriot and distinguished statesman who contributed a lot to nation building as a media practitioner,  minister in the second republic and  successful business man. He said Malam Isa Funtua’a death was a great loss, not only to his immediate family, President Buhari who was his age-long friend and in-law, but to the entire country. He prayed Almighty Allah to forgive his shortcomings and reward his good deeds with Aljannat Firdaus. On his part, Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State commiserated with President Buhari and the family of late Malam Isa Funtua, who died yesterday. In a statement signed by the director-general Media, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi, the governor described his death as a loss of monumental proportion which impact will be felt beyond the shores of Nigeria. He added that the deceased was a prince who was a successful business, politics and has been a top-notch member of the International Press Institute (IPI), traversing the global promotion and advertising film to the very best of Nigeria. Also, Delta State governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, commiserated with President Buhari on the passing of his age-long friend and in-law, Mallam Isa Funtua. Okowa also condoled with the family of the deceased, who he described as a consummate leader, shrewd boardroom player, and elder statesman. In a statement by his chief press secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, yesterday in Asaba, Okowa said Funtua’s death was a huge loss to the President and the entire nation, especially at this period in our fledgling democracy. The national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu commiserated with the family of late Ismail Funtua, saying he was a rare individual of immense talents, abilities and generosity. Tinubu described the death of the renowned businessman and nationalist as national loss. The former governor of Lagos State made this known in his condolence message in Lagos on Tuesday. Tinubu said they spoke two days before his demise, as they often and he still spoke vibrantly, with his trademark logic and deep knowledge. The former governor said they ended their conversation agreeing to resume soon and there was no indication that, that would be their last interaction. Tinubu noted that he had the distinct honour of knowing Funtua for many years. “Mallam Funtua loved our nation with uncompromising passion having served Nigeria with dedication and commitment at different times in many important capacities. He wanted the best for the country and its people and worked diligently in his private capacity to advance the course of Nigeria”, he added. The minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, described the death of Mallam Isa Funtua as a rude shock and a severe blow to the media industry in the country. In a statement issued in Abuja yesterday, the minister hailed Funtua’s contribution to media development and his untiring defence of free speech and the freedom of the press, starting from his days as the founder of the Democrat Newspapers to his stint as the president of the NPAN. He said Funtua’s passion for the media industry saw him serving as the life patron of the NPAN and taking an active interest in matters concerning the industry until his death. The vice-chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta, has commiserated with the family of late Alhaji Isa Funtua. Danbatta, alongside some staff of the Commission, paid a condolence visit to the family at the residence of late Funtua on Tuesday, 21 July, 2020 in Abuja. He described the late Funtua “as an industrialist, a loyal and trusted ally of President Muhammadu Buhari, whose accomplishments have left indelible marks in critical sectors of the economy.” On her part, former chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service/Joint Tax Board Managing Partner, Compliance Professionals, Ifueko Omoigui Okauru, described Isa Funtua as a nationalist who always wanted to work. Okauru said while she was the chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), in the early days of the tax reform process, she was told that a gentleman by the name Mallam Isa Funtua was at the reception to see her. In her tribute, Okauru said, “I invited him in, not knowing who he was. He introduced himself as a life patron of the International Press Institute and Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN) (I had no clue what that meant) and said he had a matter to discuss with me. “He brought out an official letter purportedly written on my behalf regarding unilaterally imposing VAT on the newspaper industry. First, this was the first time I was seeing the letter. Second, it was not my style. I didn’t and still don’t take unilateral actions such as was suggested in the letter without consultation even if that was what I wanted to do. “I was shocked. He mentioned the reason he came. That he didn’t know me but decided to meet with me.” “That after reading the letter from the FIRS, the newspaper proprietors had met and decided to fight the FIRS and its reforms on an action that was to cripple the entire industry without even any engagement”. Speaking further, she said, “That he promised the group that though he didn’t know me, and had never met me, he had seen and listened to me on TV at different times; that he somehow wanted to be sure that the letter, as written, was truly written on my behalf as it seemed out of the character with the person he had viewed from afar. “He gave me the benefit of doubt and I will forever be grateful to him. Therein started my wonderful relationship with Mallam Funtua, Chief Ogunsola then of Punch and Uncle Sam (Amuka Pemu) of the Vanguard newspapers. “I had built the confidence of a formidable trio and only later did I realize what incredible value that brought. It was in every sense a win-win relationship for the government and the newspaper industry. This relationship extended to my husband after we got married in 2007. “On occasion, I would call after I had left office in 2012, and he would berate me for not asking after him enough. On his part, aside from his occasional calls, every time my husband ran into him, he would always ask after my wellbeing, reminding him that he had not heard from us for a while. “If I was to call him a day before his demise, he would have been right as I had not spoken to him in several months. But I would have told him, as I always did, that our relationship was beyond just a call, but one forever in my heart. It is however a wake-up call, that for those we love and share cherished memories of, we should constantly keep in touch as we never know the day God chooses to call us to his side. “I will always remember him for that singular act of walking into my office, not knowing me and giving me the benefit of doubt. In Public Service, and indeed any service, that’s immeasurable value. The news of his death was broken to me by my husband. He woke me up from sleep to let me know. It came to my husband and me as a shock. “Seeking answers, and several calls after, I understand that he had driven himself to hospital for a medical check-up as he wasn’t fee Presidency Threatens To Release Tape Of Meeting With Sowore Meanwhile, the presidency has threatened to release a recording of the meeting late Isa Funtua had with Sahara Reporters founder, Omoyele Sowore, while he was in a Department of State Security (DSS) detention facility. The senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement, accused Sowore of twisting facts to fit his narratives. Shehu accused Sowore of posturing, noting that Funtua only intervened on personal grounds, not on behalf of the government. He said, “Let’s get the facts straight on the meeting with Sowore in SSS detention. First, it is important to state that the meeting was not instructed by the government. Nobody sent anybody to go and “negotiate” Sowore’s freedom as he puts it. “The late Malam Funtua, on his own, called me to ask that I broker a meeting with him and two others with the SSS, which they agreed to. It is important that I state that it was the force of Mallam Funtua’s argument that made the meeting possible. “Vanguard Newspapers publisher, Sam Amuka and ThisDay publisher and president, Nigerian Press Organisation, Nduka Obaigbena, all agreed that Sowore was a “rascal”, who had used his newspaper “to abuse all of us,” but agreed, nonetheless to go and press for his release.” “As the late Funtua put it, although he (Sowore) got into his problems due to politics, not journalism, the fact of him being a publisher imposed a duty on the media leaders to seek ways of making him free.  