Chief Lanre Rasak, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, speaks with ADEWALE AJAYI on his desire to go to the Senate, why his party will win Edo and Ondo states governorship elections and other matters You gunned for the Senate in 2019. Are you still interested to fill the vacuum created by the passing of Senator Bayo Osinowo a member of your party? Yes, I am still interested in going to the Senate. I am keenly interested. During the build up to the 2019 general elections, I showed interest but withdrew for Osinowo because of party directive, therefore if I am given the opportunity, I will definitely go for it.  In what area do you think you can make an impact when you get to the Senate? The most important instrument you need in the Senate is the power to lobby. Having led in national politics for some time, I may claim to know 75 percent of members of the National Assembly, and that will be my advantage to talk to them to support bills and motions that I sponsor. That definitely will give me an edge.  There will be governorship election in Edo and Ondo states very soon. What do you think are your party’s chances of winning considering the prevailing intra-party crises there? I don’t know how you come about crisis in those states, I believe the best candidate should get the ticket for the governorship race and there is a process. Every member of the party in those states have the right to contest and the people in the state have the right to pick somebody of their choice to govern them. I will not insist that this person or that person must be the flagbearer, that is not democratic and I am a democrat. I want to believe that, what we should look out for or what we should do are things that will promote and enhance democracy. The party has very sufficient crisis management mechanism and good leadership. What you consider as crisis will be strength to the party at the end of the day, for it to win the elections.  Due to the crisis in Edo State the incumbent Governor Godwin Obaseki dumped the APC for the PDP with his followers thereby depopulating your party. Won’t that affect your chances? In Ondo some of the public office holders resigned their appointments to slug it out with the incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu at the primaries. Isn’t that a creating room for crisis? Like I have said, whoever will emerge the party’s candidate has to struggle for it. It is not automatic. As to Obaseki joining the PDP; that has not changed anything. The APC is the party the people of Edo identify with. So the people will always vote for party of their choice, not necessarily an individual.  The suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, Ibrahim Magu, is being probed. This development has led to some to vindicate the 8th Senate for not approving his nomination as substantive chairman of the anti-graft commission. What your take on this? That shows who we are as human beings, who are we? We are unpredictable, we are not yam that could be peeled and the content seen. Nobody ever believed that Ibrahim Magu would end up his career in this form. That is the element of human being. The president has proved to Nigerians that he is a man of integrity and does not condone corruption in any form. For the President to take on Magu when he discovered he had derailed; that is the kind of leadership we need.  Some Nigerians have also accused Justice Ayo Salami who is heading the probe panel, of lacking the moral justification since he also was alleged of corruption before he was retired. That allegation was never proved against Justice Ayo Salami. It was just a speculation. He has his name and reputation intact. Magu has not been proved guilty. He is still innocent but, because his activities have come under doubt, that is why he is being probed.  Since we came under civil rule, we had leaders like Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, late Umaru Yar’Adua, Goodluck Jonathan and now President Muhammadu Buhari. In what way would you say each of these leaders had done something to improve the lots of Nigerians? Like I said earlier, there is the Nigerian element in our democracy and it is almost the African way of life. Several African leaders have behaved in a funny way in democracy. That does not say that we don’t have a democracy that will strengthen the needs to have human right activists to continue to condemn dictatorial tendency in a democracy. In the Obasanjo regime we had dictatorial tendency and we had some good things that he did. It was his regime that gave room to the revolution in the telephone industry and he struggled so that Nigeria and other African countries’ debts were forgiven. Therefore, we can’t close our eyes to the good things he did. On Buhari’s regime as civilian president, he had tried as much as possible not to allow the military traits in him dictate or direct the affairs of the country as a civilian president. Those are the people we are going to consider and thank for being able to do that.  