The National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) has unveiled an existing exit plan for 15 top management staff of the National Assembly, indicating that the immediate past Clerk to the National Assembly (CNA), Mohammed Sani-Omolori, overstayed in office for five months before his forced exit on Wednesday. The undated plan obtained by LEADERSHIP Sunday is contained in document tagged ‘Retirement List – 2019/2020’, showing name, file number, present appointment, date of birth, date of first appointment and date of retirement of the affected staff. Omolori’s file number is NASC/PF/15; present appointment shows CNA; date of birth is 07/08/1951; first appointment reads 05/02/1985; and his date of retirement indicates 06/02/2020, a clear more than five-month extension of tenure. Apart from Omolori, there are other eight top management staff on the list who have overstayed office with some of them due for retirement since 2019. One of them is the current Clerk of the Senate, who was supposed to have retired on May 21, 2020. While four of them held position of Secretary before their forced retirement, others were two Deputy Clerks in the Senate and one Deputy Clerk of the House of Representatives. All of them in this category have been directed by the commission to proceed on retirement with immediate effect. Meanwhile, there are six management staff with more time to spend in the service of the National Assembly, according to the retirement list. The newly appointed acting Clerk to the National Assembly, Olatunde Ojo, who was holding a position of Secretary in one of the NASS Directorates, will retire from the service on February 14, 2023. Others entitled to more time are a Clerk in the House of Reps and a Director in the Senate, who will both retire in November and September, 2020 respectively. Another Secretary, Mohammed Yabani, will retire in 2020; the Deputy Clerk (Admin) in the House of Reps is due for retirement in 2023; and another Secretary has up to 2025. In a related development, Sani-Omolori has responded to the query handed him on Thursday by the National Assembly Service Commission before his disengagement, which accused him of insubordination for giving a contrary order to the affected disengaged staff on Wednesday. Omolori, in a letter dated July 16, 2020, titled ‘Re: Query’ and addressed to the chairman of NASC, Mr. Ahmed Kadi Amshi, said his press release considered as offensive “was not intended to dictate to or undermine the Commission but to clarify the issues at stake in order to ensure peace and tranquility within the Assembly workforce.” He said the press release in question was a fallout of an emergency top management meeting he summoned on Wednesday when his attention was drawn to the circular directing the retirement of NASS staff by NASC through a press release. “It is also important to state that I was compelled to issue that statement via a press release as the circular from your office was brought to our attention via a press release instead of an administrative notice to my office as the Head of Legislative Service,” Omolori said. He noted that he had earlier drawn the attention of NASC to the defects in what the Commission relies on as the National Assembly Service Commission Act 2014 and the consequences thereof. The former CNA, who in his reply insisted he remains the Clerk to the NASS, added that even though NASC had written a letter to the leadership of the National Assembly canvassing a reversal of the Resolution of the 8th Assembly on the Condition of Service, no decision had been taken so far on the matter by the joint leadership of the 9th Assembly. “While Management considers that placing the matter before the leadership of the National Assembly accords with the spirit and intent of the authentic National Assembly Service Commission Act 2014, it will be premature to communicate any contrary decision at this time”, he stated.