With less than three years to the next general elections, TUNDE OGUNTOLA writes on the ongoing electoral reform process and the need for the National Assembly to accelerate work on the Electoral Amendment Bill. Strengthening the integrity and legitimacy of electoral processes and avoiding election-related violence remains critical in a democratic government. Also, looking beyond technical requirements, electoral reforms focus on creating conditions for legitimate elections and creating a peaceful climate of trust in the country. However, given recent developments in the struggle for   institutional and administrative autonomy for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), there are emerging signs of pervasive confidence in electoral reform, especially within civil society and the opposition parties, as possibly the ultimate solution to Nigeria’s electoral dilemma. Over the years, from registration and the review of the voters’ register, through party primaries and election campaigns to the conduct of the elections and the handling of post-election issues (including protests and election tribunals), the system has leaves a lot to be desired in the country. Apparently worried by endless cases of electoral irregularities during every election in the country, the Electoral Offences Commission (Establishment) Bill 2020, sponsored in the Senate by Sen. Abubakar   Kyari and co-sponsored by Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, passed first reading on  February 27 and passed the second reading on March 4. But, coalitions of civil society groups have continued to bring to the front burner issues that tend to cast aspersions on the conduct of elections in Nigeria. This is even as the Senate and the House of Representatives could commence public hearings on the amendments of the Electoral Act barring any changes in light of the  COVID-19 pandemic which has slowed down legislative work. However the importance of electoral reforms ahead of the next general election was brought to the fore last week as eminent stakeholders at a Citizen Town Hall on Electoral Reforms, called on the National Assembly to hasten the passage of the Bill for an Act to establish the National Electoral Offences Commission (NEOC). The stakeholders, including the chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mahmood Yakubu; attorney general of the federation and minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Bishop Matthew Kukah; Mike Ozekhome (SAN)and minister of State for Niger Delta, Festus Keyamo (SAN) underscored the need for reforms in the electoral process, stressing that it will improve the quality of public leadership and governance at all levels and also increase trust in democratic institutions. Noting that speedy passage of the electoral Bill is essential to addressing the decline in the quality of elections and loss of faith in democracy, they blamed the political class for opposing reforms in the electoral process. The Citizens’ Town Hall meeting was organised by Yiaga Africa in   partnership with EU-SDGN; European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES), Albino Foundation, International Press Centre (IPC), Nigerian  Women Trust Fund (NWTF), CLEEN Foundation, Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre (PLAC), Westminster Foundation. Others are the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), BBC Media Action, Institute of Media and Society (IMS), INEC and Premium Times   Centre  for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ). The town hall provides an    opportunity for stakeholders especially citizens to reflect, engage  and build consensus on electoral reform priorities and timelines as  well pressure the NASS to pass the Bill while the President, Muhammadu Buhari sign the pass the electoral amendments into law before December this year unlike in 2019 when it was adjudged to be too close to the general elections. The stakeholders listed areas of expected electoral reforms before the next general elections and other scheduled elections. The reforms will involve the three arms of government to wit the Executive, National Assembly, INEC and other stakeholders, like the civil society groups. YIAGA Africa in a copy of the recommendations made available to LEADERSHIP urged the National Assembly to accelerate the consideration of the electoral amendment bills and ensure their quick passage before the end of 2020. They also called upon the National Assembly to consolidate and harmonise all electoral amendments into a Repeal and  Re-enactment Electoral bill. While urging the two arms of the National Assembly to expedite action on the Bill, they asked them to set December 2020 as a definite timeline for concluding all reforms to the electoral legal framework. Hence the following key electoral reform priorities were listed: ‘’Strengthen the financial autonomy of INEC by providing legal timelines for the release of funds to INEC to conduct elections; Provide legal recognition for electronic accreditation of voters,   e-voting, e-collation and electronic transmission of results; Review  timelines to allow the conduct of early primaries, campaigns and  submission of list of candidates as well as prescribe limits to fees, charges, and dues imposed by political parties on aspirants.’’ Also, they called for the ‘’provision of legal grounds for the rejection of the list of candidates submitted by parties to INEC as  well as conditions for cancellation of elections; Review the duality  of jurisdiction between Election Petition Tribunals and regular   courts, and harmonize timelines for the determination of pre-election matters so pre-election disputes can be resolved well before the date of elections; Subject declarations and returns made by Returning  Officers under duress or controversial circumstances to further review   by the Commission; Establishment of an electoral offences commission to prosecute electoral offenders; Political inclusion of women, youth and persons with disability in the electoral process. Speaking, the executive director, Yiaga Africa, Samson Itodo, said it’s exactly 965 days, 31 months or 2 years, 7 months and 21 days to  the 2023 general elections adding that it was obvious the challenges of the electoral process are enormous and it requires leadership and decisive actions from diverse stakeholders to fix. “This is why Yiaga Africa and our partners are hosting this town hall to address the declining quality of elections and loss of faith in the democratic institutions due to impunity, exclusion and unbridled corruption. If the electoral process is reformed, it will improve the quality of public leadership and governance at all levels and also increase public trust in democracy and democratic institutions,” he said. Itodo expressed fear that the country may spend double of what it spent in conducting the 2019 general elections if it fails to reform its   electoral system before the next general elections. Describing electoral reform as a democratic project that promotes the common good, social stability and national development, he warned the reform must not be limited to legal or constitutional amendment but should be extended to administration. He said there was a need to build a consensus on priority issues for electoral reform through an all-inclusive and collaborative process, while executive and legislatures should be committed to electoral reform. He also canvassed a massive mobilisation of citizens to promote the reform at the local, state and national levels. Also, speaking at the event, INEC chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, stressed that the timely establishment of the National Electoral Offences Commission will improve the quality of elections in the country, noting that the nation’s policy on persons who undermine the election needs to be clearly spelt out. He recalled that during a retreat for federal lawmakers on the review of the electoral legal framework in March this year he urged the National Assembly to hasten the passage of the Bill for the establishment of the Electoral Offences Commission. On the need to sign the Bill, Prof Yakubu noted that the nation could no longer afford to foot drag on the legislation which would provide the framework for dealing with impunity and banditry in elections. The chief electoral officer decried electoral offenders are becoming more brazen because they are not effectively prosecuted, adding that the commission would like the 9th National Assembly to make history by passing the Bill into law saying it is time to walk the talk. He charged lawmakers and election managers to renew their interest in reforming the legal framework in the best interest of electoral and  democratic processes. He said: ‘’We need to strengthen our electoral process and transform the culture and we are working with NASS to get the required changes.’’ While tasking political parties to endeavor to do the right things, he  decried the increasing number of litigations against the electoral  commission. On the cost of running elections, the INEC chairman lamented that the commission has been dragged to court over 2000 times, adding that ‘’most times we need to hire lawyers.’’ He continued, ‘’Some of the cases are not intended by people who filed them, but we have to hire lawyers. Elections are expensive because we  also conduct bye-elections including senatorial elections. We have six senatorial district elections to conduct. ‘’We continue to spend on these elections. We have approached the lawmakers to pass the Bill, while we remain resolute to conduct a free and fair election,’’ he said. On his part, Bishop Kukah, said the assumption that Nigeria has clearly transitioned from dictatorship to democracy is not true. Explaining why the level of greed among the political class manifests in the electoral process, he decried that the non-passage of the Bill is creating room for the judiciary to undermine the democratic process. The Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese who lampooned politicians for being undisciplined pointed out that there are inconsistencies in the nation’s democratic process. According to him, ‘’We are assuming that we have a clear transition process from dictatorship to democracy but this is not really true. We have greed and it is manifesting in the whole electoral process creating a room for the judiciary to undermine our democracy.’’ He added, ‘’Our system is quarrelsome; it has been all about the military over the years. The integrity of the judiciary is under question. We need to pay attention to the future, the coming generation should see politics in a noble form.’’ He called on the judiciary to function in line with its mandate, adding that politicians must obey the wishes of the people. ‘’Judiciary should function in line with its mandate and politicians must obey the wishes of the people. ‘’It will be nice if we have a generation of politicians that are not greedy. The current breed of politicians are ambitious and are not ready to serve the people. ‘’Our health, education and social services are in dire straits. We  cannot afford to raise generations without good ideals and morals,’’ he added. On his part, the AGF, Abubakar Malami, said that the nation’s electoral process is evolving and developing. ‘’As at 1999, the system was unpredictable and very chaotic which is gradually becoming a thing of the past. Pre-election matters in 1999 can be in court for seven to 10 years. At the moment there are legal frameworks on the conduct of electoral matters. ‘’We understand the need for cooperation between the judiciary, legislature, and the executive and we will continue to stress this,’’ he added. A senior lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who also spoke at the event, said politicians see elections as a do-or-die affair. He said INEC ought to be independent in line with Section 153 of the constitution just as he noted that electoral offenders should be barred for contesting an election for a period of 10 years or above to serve as a deterrent to others. Also, minister of State for Niger Delta Festus Keyamo (SAN), called  for the independence of the law enforcement agents.