A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) Dr. Benson Enikuomehin, has urged the national leadership of the party to as a matter of urgency disqualify the Deputy Governor of the State, Hon. Agboola Ajayi, from participating in the party’s primary scheduled for tomorrow. Enikuomehin who spoke at a press briefing in Akure , the state capital warned that the PDP would eventually lose power even if the party wins the governorship election. Enikuomehin stated that fielding Ajayi for the forthcoming poll, would amount to effort in futility as the other political party will definitely approach the law court to upturn any success made by the party in the election. According to the legal luminary, the incessant calls for the disqualification of Hon Ajayi was based on a suit filed at an Ondo State High Court by a member of the PDP, Comrade Eganosi Ayenuberu. In the suit, Comrade Ayenuberu claimed that the Ondo Deputy Governor obtained his academic qualifications in breach of the 1999 constitution, extant laws, manuals and regulations guiding various examination bodies. Comrade Ayenuberui is seeking an order disqualifying Hon Ajayi from participating in the PDP primary. Ayenuberu is also asking the court to restrain the PDP from presenting Ajayi to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the purpose of election. He said, “If we succeed at the governorship election and the issue that has to do with these certificates that has been described in the petition, our opponents will only raise the issue that somebody sat for an examination in two separate schools and obtained results here in Akure. “The young man sat for May/June in Aquinas College. In the same May/June he sat for the same examination in Victory College, Ikare at the same time, same date and same examination. He passed both examinations. “Other facts are here. It is necessary as concerned leaders of the party, our national leaders must do something in these respects, failure to do so, we may be cruising home to the Bayelsa experience. We may work hard and after winning a red card will be shown to us. “We urged the leadership of the party in Abuja to look critically at this matter and had this addressed, if we do not do the needful, the court will do the needful for us.” Reacting, the deputy governor, Hon Agboola Ajayi, who spoke through his Media Adviser, Sowore Allen, said previous courts’ ruling have vindicated him.