Political parties and their candidates for the Edo and Ondo governorship elections are in a quandary about how to abide by the COVID-19 guidelines released by the Nigeria Center for Disease Control (NCDC) during campaigns. It was gathered that politicians who are used to assembling large crowds as part of their campaigns are in a bind as the guidelines forbid large gatherings of any nature. Although they are left with the option of conventional media and social media for their campaigns, there are worries that they won’t be able to reach out for votes in the hinterlands and rural areas. Checks by LEADERSHIP Sunday revealed that most of the political parties have not been abiding by the social distancing rules in their recent political activities. They lamented that the coronavirus pandemic will have negative impact on their political campaigns. Some of them who spoke with LEADERSHIP Sunday lamented over the difficulty they will experience in selling their manifestos and programmes to the electorate across the state, particularly in the hinterlands. A member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon Wale Alake, noted that the larger percentage of the electorate, particularly those in the rural areas, have no access to internet. Alake argued that the system introduced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to campaign online is still strange to most people, even those that are literate. He said, “Like the normal ritual in this clime, governorship elections come with social gatherings, political rallies and visiting of political leaders at their various homes. With this COVID-19, the only reasonable thing for all the political parties participating in the election to do would be to re-adjust their activities. “They must have a review of their activities which they might have already issued because we must also learn how to take care of our health first before any elective post”. A member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Idowu Adekunle, said he would have advocated for postponement of the election if not that it would be in breach of the constitution. Adekunle lamented that normal political activity like rallies, gathering of people together for debates where aspirants articulate their manifesto have been canceled. According to Adekunle, “if not that the situation would not result in a constitutional logjam given that there is a constitutional requirement of number of days that the election must hold before the occupier leaves office, the best way to go is for the election to be postponed.” Adekunle maintained that there is no letup in political activities in the state despite the ban on social and political gatherings following the outbreak of coronavirus in the country. He said although some governorship aspirants as well as their respective parties have devised ways of engaging in politics and furthering their aspirations ahead of the governorship elections, but not like what it used to be in the state. He said, “In spite of this development, there are little political activities within the two main political parties, as aspirants within the parties intensify their efforts to emerge as the preferred candidate.” On his part, the state chairman of the African Action Congress (AAC), Alex Adeniyi, observed that the online process of campaigns and voting is a welcome development in the face of the Coronavirus pandemic. He said, “In fact, we in the AAC for a long time have started our online meetings and advocacy through platforms like Zoom, WhatsApp, Facebook, and Twitter. “So, INEC must also be ready to give adequate support even in terms of finance to the political parties because the process of going online for campaigns and every other process that leads to the election proper will attract more money.” Also speaking, director of publicity and media of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Zadok Akintoye, said, “For us in the PDP, we have already adopted our plans in line with the directives of INEC, hoping that as we approach the elections, the issues compelling this directive would have been adequately resolved.” In his own reaction, director of media and publicity of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Mr Steve Otaloro, said governorship election is a serious business that shouldn’t be taken lightly by INEC. According to him, it is important that the electorate know who want to governed them and there is need to ask those vying for the office pertinent questions. He stated: “So, we would only enjoin INEC to take a second look at this idea. How many voters can these political parties reach via the social or electronic media? It is just few persons or the influential ones. “Moreso, if you look at the logistics that is involved, how many political parties, both the small and big ones, can afford to go on social media to campaign because this takes a lot of money and resources.” Speaking in the same vein, a civil servant, Mr Anjorin Akinwande, said he envisages voters’ apathy the forthcoming governorship election in the state. Akinwande noted that most of the people will rather prefer staying at home than risking their lives to come out to vote during the election. He said, “My brother, it will be difficult for me personally to risk my life and that of my family to vote for anybody. While I acknowledge the importance of voting for my preferred candidate, the COVID-19 pandemic stands as impediment for me. “Most of the politicians are not even responsible. They only know the masses while campaigning. After the election they do what pleases them. It doesn’t worth risking my life because of anybody.” In his submission, Mr Adedotun Adebo, noted that he will definitely go out to vote for the candidate of his choice in the coming election. Adebo said, “Covid-19  is a serious health issue now in the country. But we cannot do without this election for us not to cause constitutional crisis in the state. What we just need to do is to ensure that we are properly protected and adhere strictly to NCDC directives. “Also, INEC must provide a conducive environment for all the voters. Voters also must use facemask and ensure that they come to the polling booth with their hand sanitizers and equally maintain social distancing. We will continue to live with the virus until we get the solution to it.”  Parties To Rejig Campaign Strategies In Compliance With COVID-19 Guidelines Following concerns by stakeholders about preparations for campaigns in compliance with COVID-19 regulations, political parties in the Edo State said they are poised to comply with guidelines of the Independent National Electoral Commission. The two main political parties in the state said they have reviewed their strategy to protect the health and wellbeing of voters in total compliance with INEC policy frame work and guidelines. The director of communication and media to Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu campaign organisation, Mr John Mayaki, said the campaign organisation has fully studied the guidelines and is complying with it in order not to jeopardise the lives of people and voters. He said, “INEC has provided a policy framework for all political parties with clear provisions on how to conduct campaigns without compromising the health of the electorate or jeopardizing the efforts to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease. “As a responsible political party and candidate, the All Progressives Congress, and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu and Mallam Gani Audu have carefully studied the regulations and are strictly complying with them. “Our campaigns are domesticated and carried out at the grassroots in safe cells to prevent dangerous gatherings and inter-communal movements. We have also adapted all our campaign processes for the electronic media, specifically the internet. “We disseminate information to our campaign staff via safe online platforms and we also fully utilise all available opportunities to engage and interact with Edo people through popular social media platforms. “An example is the daily streaming of a concise analysis of the POI/GANI SIMPLE agenda that we just launched across the social platforms of our candidate. He will be participating himself and taking feedbacks directly from the people. “It is the first of its kind and it demonstrates our innovative ability to safely navigate the times and readiness to comply with all health and safety regulations”. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on it part said the state government was fully ready and is adhering strictly to INEC guidelines as far as social gathering is concerned. The special adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on media and communication strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said the lives of Edo people are sacrosanct to Obaseki whom he said has taken the fight against the pandemic head on to save the lives of the people. “INEC has issued guidelines to all political parties in respect of campaigns as well as what steps and regulation to take. In PDP and Obaseki’s campaign organization all the guidelines have been carefully studied in details and every guideline will be followed in strict compliance to the regulations” Meanwhile, in response to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, Nigeria has introduced several public health and social measures (PHSM).  Avoid Utilising Campaign Venue To Full Capacity Meanwhile, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has warned political parties and their candidates against using campaign venues to full capacity. It said it developed guidelines for electoral process in the country to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19 during elections. For political parties, NCDC said the pre-campaign period should be used to prepare for safe election processes, share messages about how campaigns will run and how people can vote on that day, while adhering to the COVID-19 protective measures. NCDC said posters, videos and jingles could be used to inform the electorate of the processes put in place to ensure that they are adequately protected. The body said INEC and political parties with guide of health authorities are expected to engage with communities and share information widely on what to expect at rallies and how people can vote safely. It said, “This period should also be used to share messages that promote behaviors such as hand hygiene, respiratory etiquette, practicing physical distancing to enhance the protection of healthy individuals, families and communities.” For politicians, the NCDC said they are expected to publicise and adhere to codes of conduct developed by INEC, including public health and social measures expected at rallies and election locations. The Centre continued: “This should be done through relevant communication channels – posters, TV and radio jingles. “Avoid utilising campaign venue to full capacity; we recommend one-third of venue capacity (minimum of two metres should be observed among people at the gathering). “If essential, multiple rallies should be conducted with appropriate numbers of people to enable adequate physical distancing in each gathering per time. “Hand hygiene facilities including soap and water/ hand sanitisers should be made available for people before gaining access to campaign ground. “The use of face masks must be mandatory for everyone attending the campaign rally.” NCDC added that where applicable, virtual campaigns and rallies are encouraged, including televised or radio campaigns, and mobile vans. For INEC, NCDC called on the electoral body to develop and publicise voters’ code of conduct, including what is expected of voters to adequately protect themselves from COVID-19 at polling stations. It called on INEC to educate all election staff and volunteers on voting process and measures put in place to protect them. NCDC also called on INEC to “develop and publicise code of conduct for political parties including COVID-19 public health and social measures to be adhered to during campaigns and elections.” On general public health consideration, NCDC said mass gatherings during elections will likely occur during campaigns and election days. It said the only way to conduct elections without putting any one at risk of contracting COVID-19 is to comply with all protective measures at all times. For polling station staff, NCDC said they should be on the lookout and stay at home if they have a fever, respiratory symptoms, or feel generally unwell. “Provide a temperature control point at the entrance of the polling station to check voter’s temperature, and people with a high temperature should be asked to go home”.  COVID-19 Has Worsened Maternal Mortality Rate In Nigeria – NPC Meanwhile, the National Population Commission (NPC) has said the COVID-19 pandemic has worsened the maternal mortality rate of 556 deaths per 100,000 live births in the country. Acting chairman of the commission, Dr Eyitayo Oyetunji, spoke yesterday at a news conference in Abuja to mark the 2020 World Population Day (WPD). WPD is annually celebrated on July 11 to raise awareness about sexual and reproductive health needs of people around the world. The day is an opportunity to take stock of the state of the world’s population, especially those often left behind, particularly women and girls and thereby determine the way forward to ensure their fundamental human rights are upheld. Oyetunji, who said that this year’s theme of the WPD, putting the brakes on COVID-19: How to Safeguard the Health and Rights of Women and Girls Now”, affirmed that women and girls were worst affected by the pandemic. The NPC chairman explained that COVID-19 had impeded women’s access to reproductive health facilities, especially as logistics of getting to health facilities became negatively impacted. He said that the COVID-19 lockdown had paralysed the informal sector of the economy, which women were mainly employed in. He said, “Although the pandemic is global, some categories of persons are more affected, for example, the informal sector employs 80 per cent of Nigerians. And it is mainly made of daily paid workers who are worse hit by the lockdown. “It is pertinent to mention that because most women in Nigeria are employed in the informal sector, COVID-19 lockdown impacted more negatively on them than the male counterparts.” Oyetunji expressed concern over the state of poverty among women, which resulted in anemia occasioned by malnutrition. The NPC boss who identified anaemia as a major cause of maternal mortality said over half of women from the age of 15 to 49 suffer from anaemia. He pointed out that low usage of contraceptives, as well as unmet needs for family planning were major causes of Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) due to unprotected sex, unwanted pregnancies, unsafe abortions. He then raised an alarm over the continued shutting down of schools due to the lockdown, “which has the possibility of making more girls to drop out of school.” Oyetunji, who reiterated calls to mitigate the challenges of women and those left behind, commended the Federal Government for initiating numerous programmes to end the practices that negate the rights of women and girls. “Some of these programmes include the Better Education Service Delivery Programme for Result (BESDA) aimed at rescuing the number of out-of-school children in 17 states of the federation,” he said.