A frontline governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo state, Chief Olaide Owolabi Adelami, has said that he will be presenting something new to the people of the state if and when elected governor. The former National Assembly deputy clerk, further stated that the people of the state were yearning for something new akin to the era of “Baba Ajasin and Baba Adefarati” who he said, governed the state well. He spoke to journalists after submitting his nomination form to contest the APC governorship primary election, Wednesday in Abuja, Adelami said the party. On his choice of primary election mode, the former National Assembly deputy clerk said “the popular opinion is a direct primary. I normally refer to it as election before election, nobody will be disenchanted, everybody will be given opportunity to express themselves.” On his plans for the state,  Adelami said: “Ondo state is yearning for something new, something novel. If you look at the history of Ondo state you will find out this is not the first time. Remember Baba Ajasin who was a renowned teacher and a technocrat, Baba Adefarati, a renowned teacher and a technocrat, they all performed well. “Like I said, the first thing is to come to Ondo state to maintain party cohesion. Number two, the numerous disenchanted, near hopeless youths roaming the streets. We have so many of them in Ondo state who have been carrying their certificates for the past five, six years looking for job that is not there. I’m coming to Ondo state to engage our teeming youths. They must work, they are the asset of Ondo state and I value them so much. They are going to take priority in the projects I’m going to execute in Ondo state. “Like I have been saying, my entry into contest is for real and the mission is defined to come and rescue Ondo state from maladministration. You all know that the party is disenchanted. There are a lot of aggrieved members of APC, about of 80% of them. My mission is to come and build the party, maintain party cohesion and that is what I know to do best. I have managed over the years human resources and financial resources and coming to Ondo state is not new I am coming to do what I know how to do best.”