No fewer than 25 persons and a police inspector were killed in two separates attacks by herdsmen in Kaura and Kachia local government areas of Kaduna State. Yesterday’s attack on Kukum Daji in Kaura LGA led to a death toll of no fewer than 21 persons and a police Inspector, while another 29 sustained various degrees of injuries after the attack. The president of the community, Mr Yashen Sunday Titus, confirmed the attack to LEADERSHIP yesterday and said that the attack took place at about 11pm on Sunday. He disclosed that the victims were shot dead while celebrating at a wedding party in one of the compounds in the community. “ The attackers stormed the village at about 11pm heavily armed and start shooting sporadically at the villagers. No fewer than 19 people were killed on the spot while 30 persons were taken to the hospital, 2 later died on the way to the hospitals, a police station was  attacked and an Inspector was also shot dead,” Sunday said. LEADERSHIP gathered that no fewer than 19 persons were  taken to Barau Dikko Teaching Hospital while 9 were taken to Salem Hospital (Throneroom Trust Ministry) for medical attention. Efforts to get the reaction of the LGA sole administrator, Dr Bege Katuka, was unsuccessful, as he was not responding to calls. The community leader disclosed that there has never been any rift between the villagers with Fulanis, but was shocked seeing the kind  of carnage that they visited on their Community. “ We urge the government to rise up to her responsibility of protecting lives and properties. It is unfortunate that even children are not spared,” he lamented. In Mai-Ido village, Kachia local government where four people were confirmed killed and over 10 kidnapped, the gunmen had launched an  attack on the village at the weekend after two vehicles conveying strange herdsmen the previous week were caught. According to a resident, Chris Maiyaki, penultimate Wednesday, villagers had noticed a vehicle carrying strange herdsmen to surrounding bushes where they alighted from the vehicle and disappeared into the forest. Some of the villagers who sighted them alerted the youths to stop the driver. “ When the driver was stopped, the youths insisted on knowing the mission behind dropping these strange herdsmen. While interrogating the driver , another vehicle, a Sharon bus, arrived with yet another set of strange-looking herdsmen. The youths stopped the second vehicle and sought to know the drivers mission. Not satisfied with the answers given by the bus driver, the youths went ahead to search the vehicle and recovered bullets,  Machete, Indian hemp, among others,” he said. The youths in a bid not to take the laws into their hands, took the vehicles and their occupants to the Kachia Police Station for further interrogation after they had briefed the village head. Our correspondent further learnt that after spending three days in the police custody in Kachia, the suspects were summarily released in the  orders of the District Head of Kachia who they alleged is related to the suspects.