Thirteen years after he was assassinated, the memory Engineer Funsho Williams came to life as members of his party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Lagos State chapter gathered to remember him, describing him as a committed, dedicated and principled leader, who was out to ensure betterment of the people of the state. Williams who was a leading governorship aspirant on the platform of PDP in the state, was assassinated July 27, 2006 in his Ikoyi residence. Paying glowing tributes to his memory were chairman of PDP in the state, Engineer Deji Doherty and former Minister of State for Defence, Mrs. Dupe Adelaja Speaking on the good virtues of Williams, Engineer Doherty said, “His good work, his legacy, his ideology, that’s what we are remembering. His legacy of good governance, of what he stood for, his perseverance, determination, his belief in delivering dividends of democracy to the people, that’s it.” Also speaking, the former minister, Adelaja, said the late political icon, would be remembered for his commitment to good governance, and also to the welfare of the people of Lagos State. She recalled that the late Williams, an engineer turned politician, had actually wanted to contest the governorship seat of Lagos because he believed he had what was needed for the betterment of people of the state. According to her, “Charity begins at home, he was very passionate even as a civil servant working in Lagos State as an engineer constructing roads, and so on, he did a wonderful job. “So he believed that it was necessary for him if he wanted to impact on the people to be at the helm of affairs so that he can impact very well.’’ The former minister said that the party is proud of the legacy he left behind and urged party leaders and members to continue to persevere and work hard, noting that those who won the crown of glory never won it by being complacent. “The message I would pass to members is that they should continue to persevere and they should continue to work hard, those who win the crown of glory don’t win it by being complacent and that spirit of can do, they should continue with it,” she said. Adelaja also urged members of the party to be loyal to it, saying lack of loyalty and perseverance could be among the reasons why the PDP in the state has not been able to move forward. Adelaja emphasised that,’’ Funsho Williams was a committed person, he was principled, he knew what he wanted and he was going for it. So members should continue with his legacy and not just allow it to fizzle out”.