Since news broke that the Dubai Police Force of the United Arab Emirates has arrested Nigerian Instagram celebrity, Ramon Igbalode Abbas aka Hushpuppi and gang for defrauding 1,926,400 people and made a whooping sum of N168bn, it’s been a nightmare for him. ANTHONY ADA ABRAHAM writes on the many travails of the scam kingpin and his extradition Raymond Igbalode Abbas also known as Ray Hushpuppi Aja 4 and Aja puppy who once revealed that he used to be a crazy gambler back in the days, all of a sudden became rich when he relocated to Malaysia. Nobody knew his actual source of wealth. He started making really good money when he left Nigeria for Malaysia and gained the title of a Nigerian dark horse. It was estimated that he is worth over $20 million USD – which is quite mind blowing for a young man of his age who has nothing significant to show for as his source of wealth, as he chooses to hide the numbers from the public. He likes showing off massive wealth and how he lives a luxurious lifestyle on Instagram in particular. He has flashy cars such as Bentleys, Rolls Royce, Maybach, Ferraris and live in the best apartments in the world. He boasts of paying his driver and house helps huge sums of money which even Nigerian politicians cannot collect as salaries. He is among the people ace musician 9ice called out in his controversial hitsong “Living Things” believed to promote internet fraud. Others mentioned in the song by 9ice include Jaguar, Cash Music, Lord BT, Nicky Baller, Olu Chase, Junior White, Ugo, Wassup London, M. White, Don KC and Lati. There are lots of social media celebrities such as Investor BJ, Baddy Osha, Opa6, Bayo Otunola and others who were mentioned in the song too. While some of them have had problems with the law in the past, others have never been arrested. But as his luck would run out, just like in Nigeria’s local parlance, “everyday is for the thief, one day is for the owner,” the news of his arrest by the Dubai Police for fraudulent activities spread like wild fire. In a video released on its official Twitter handle , the Middle-East police said a special team had been tracking the suspect and his gang’s activities on social media for about four months. The police revealed that upon the arrest of Hushpuppi and 12 other members of his crew, it discovered that fraud amounting to 1.6bn Dirham (N168bn) had been committed by the gang. No fewer than 1,926,400 people from different parts of the world were also said to have fallen victims to the suspects. According to the police, 13 luxury cars, estimated at 35 million Dirham (N3.7bn) were recovered from the house where they were arrested. The Dubai police said the operation leading to the arrests was dubbed “Fox Hunt 2”. While footage of the operation played, a narrator said, “In less than just four months, the Dubai Police Force was able to solve the new operation dubbed Fox Hunt 2, where 12 other gang members were also arrested. “Six raids were carried out simultaneously while the suspects were sleeping in their Dubai residences. After months of investigating and hours of monitoring the gang’s social media accounts, a team of highly trained Dubai Police officers were able to confirm the gang’s whereabouts and fraudulent activities. Following their arrest, Hushpuppi and Olalekan Jacon Ponle a.k.a Mr Woodberry were extradited to the United States which was confirmed in a post shared on the official page of the Dubai Police. FBI’s Director, Christopher Wray, thanked the Dubai Police for their cooperation in extraditing the Nigerian suspects who were accused of committing multiple moneylaundering and cyber crimes. The Instagram post reads, “The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Christopher Wray, has praised the exceptional efforts exerted by the United Arab Emirate, represented by the Dubai Police General HQ, “In combating transnational organised cybercrime including the recent arrest of Raymod Igbalode Abbas, known as “Hushpuppi” and Olalekan Jacon Ponle aka “Woodberry” who were taken down in operation “Fox Hunt 2”. Mr Wray also extended his appreciations to Dubai Police for their cooperation in extraditing the wanted criminals, who committed moneylaundering and multiple-cybercrimes, to the United States. Though his arrest didn’t come as a surprise to many because they have been waiting for the day he would be arrested. One of such persons is Timaya who once posted that the individual talking to him does not deserve any response, because he is on exile in another man’s country. He said he should come to Nigeria if he had the mind, only for the news of his arrest to hit the world. Some celebrities have benefitted from the so-called “Big Boy” and are still hailing and calling for his release. Celebrities and long throat: Daddy Freeze, a popular on-airpersonality who’s known for his criticism of clergy men for collecting tithes was dragged and lampooned for dinning with the criminal with his wife in Dubai while insulting Nigerians as jobless after he was treated and blessed by the fraudulent gangster. Replying his critics who slammed him for once hanging out with the alleged internet fraudster, Hushpuppi, following the latter’s arrest in Dubai, Daddy Freeze while defending himself noted that he never knew Hushpuppi to be a criminal but a social media influencer and that if he knew, he wouldn’t have hung out with him. He added that as at the time they hung out together, the alleged fraudster had no case to answer. He said, “I didn’t know him to be a criminal, if I did I wouldn’t hang out with him. And unless someone is proven guilty, I do not discriminate against them because the one who taught me Christianity, the one who I follow, Christ, did not discriminate against anyone. “As of the time I did the video, which is eight months ago, he had no case. Even now, until he is proven guilty by a competent court, we have to sit down and wait and allow the court to do its work. “While we were driving, he got calls from Gucci, he got calls from Versace, and he got calls from LV all wanting to host him and he says he is an influencer. He didn’t get calls from any hackers, at least while I was there, there was nothing suspicious.” Group Wants Politicians Investigated For Supporting Hushpuppi The National Coalition of Democrats (NCD) also called on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and International Police to investigate top politicians and other stalwarts over possible links to arrested suspected fraudster, Hushpuppi. In a statement signed by its Spokesman, Garuba Nuhu, the National Coalition of Democrats reasoned that there could be more to this act, especially with Hushpuppi’s known relationship with some top politicians and businessmen who have been pictured together before at a party and privately. The group, therefore, called on the FBI and Interpol to investigate politicians who might have been first-line beneficiaries of the fraud committed by Hushpuppi. It added that Hushpuppi could have likely “assisted these individuals to launder funds through his network because the level of fraternity between Hushpuppi and these individuals points to that direction.” Did Mompha See this coming? Three years ago, Nigerian billionaire, Mompha, who was also arrested for alleged illegal dealings made a wild revelation about the true identity of Hushpuppi and his family, but was disregarded and declared bogus. Have people realised that ever since the Instagram big boy was arrested, no family member has jumped to his defence neither has anyone addressed the media on the ongoing alleged million-dollar scam allegations levelled against the “Gucci Master?”. It may be true afterall that Mompha’s revelation 3 years, as why his family could not come out to defend their son. He had a nasty altercation with Hushpuppi who was then his enemy and through that, he disclosed that Hushpuppi’s father was a taxi driver whilst his mother sells bread. Hushpuppi has gained followers Hushpuppi, has gained over 200,000 followers just in two weeks since he was arrested in Dubai for alleged fraud. Before his arrest by Dubai Police on June 10th, the self-acclaimed billionaire Gucci master had 2.2 Million followers on social networking platform, Instagram, but now, he has 2.4 Million and above 