The federal government has said that  it would introduce a strategy for the periodic evaluation of oil fields, as 600 companies  indicated interest to bid for the 57 oil fields on offer across Nigeria. The director and chief executive of the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Engr Sarki Auwalu, who disclosed this yesterday, said that the federal government would unveil the National Acreage Management Strategy (NAMSTRA) before the end of this year. NAMSTRA is expected to put in place strategies to determine the nation’s periodic bid rounds. This has become necessary according to the DPR boss given that the last bid round was about 17 years ago. Auwalu spoke at a webinar hosted by Nigeria Association of Petroleum Explorationists (NAPE) titled “Nigeria Marginal Field Bid Round: Implications, Challenges and Opportunities.” He said for the nation’s oil industry to remain competitive within the Sub-Sahara region, there is now the need to determine Nigeria’s potential oil basins and know when to call for bid rounds. Auwalu said with the nation’s available seven basins comprising the Benue (central), Sokoto (north-west border), Chad (north-east), Bida (central, along the Niger valley), Dahomey (south- west) and Anambra (south-east) Basins and the Niger delta (south coastal) including the deep water, the establishment of NAMSTRA will help to predict when the next bid round will be after assessing the commercial viability of these basins. “NAMSTRA will also help to determine how prolific such basins will be in a bid round process” Auwalu said. On the interest of investors in the current bid round he pointed out that not less than 10 companies have sought for each of the Marginal Fields put out for bid this year. In all, he explained that about 600 companies are bidding for the 57 oil fields. “First, I will say that we have really witnessed an increase in bidders after the extension of the deadline to June 21. There has been almost 30 per cent increase in the participation. “If you are making a bid or auctioning any oil field, you need to get 10 people per field really going after the field. We have 57 fields and we have over 600 companies. So, we can say that we are celebrating success so far. “After the extension, we are moving according to schedule and now we are in the phase where we do pre-qualification for the bidders to apply. Everything is going perfectly” Auwalu said. On the issue of Niger Delta people going to court if they are not given first line of refusal in the current bid round, he explained that Nigeria has a constitution on how these things are done and will indulge the Niger Delta people to follow the due process in the bid round. However, he pointed out that most of the States in the Niger Delta have applied for the bid round through their state-owned oil companies. He said that successful firms in the 2020 marginal fields bid rounds should strive to deliver first oil in two years. According to him, the federal government expects bidders to have both funding and technicalities already prepared for production and should launch into exploration immediately upon winning, adding that the bidding would be held electronically. Auwalu explained that the federal government is poised to give support to the winners in terms of providing advisory roles to them on how to go about meeting the target. “There is no magic to developing fields. Already, we have 16 marginal field operators producing in the country, and we have seen how they went about it. So, government is prepared to help winners succeed by giving them aggressive work implementation tactics.” He added that before opening up this year’s bid rounds in June, the Department had embarked on various studies to help investors become successful. “We have seen how other marginal oil and gas firms became successful, and as long as funding and other things are on ground, it is possible to achieve first oil in two years,” he said. He advised marginal field operators to engage in better community relations in order to be more successful in their businesses. “What we have seen is that indigenous marginal field operators do not take community relationships seriously, and so they end up facing apathy from the host communities,” he said. According to the DPR guidelines on the 2020 oil bid round exercise, and payment by interested bidders will attract non-refundable chargeable fees as follows, Application fee of N2 million per field, Bid Processing Fee of N3million per field, Data prying fee of $15,000 per field, Data Leasing fee of $25,000 per field, Competent Persons Report of $50,000 and $25,000 for Fields Specific Report. With the above, interested bidders are expected to pay a total of $115,000 in statutory fees and another N5 million in local currency. At the official exchange rate of $360/$1, the 57 oil fields on offer gives N2,364,800,000 including the N5 million payment. The commencement of the 2020 oil bid round is coming 18 years after the first one was conducted in 2002.