The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide had described the allegations against President Muhammadu Buhari as Igbo hater as  baseless, unfounded and handiwork of mischief makers. The president general Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro and the secretary general, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike in a statement  said that those spreading the allegation are the real enemies of Igbos. According to them, “the proponent of such stand had serially squandered the goodwill of Igbo people over a decade now through continuous offensive decisions done in error”. The Igbo group commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his love for Igbo populace, which according to the group has been demonstrated through projects sited in the Southeast geo political zone irrespective of the political decisions taken against him in 2015 and 2019. The group urged the President to relax some strict business policies affecting negatively Igbo traders and business owners. The statement reads in part,  “Igbo youths chronically state that in 2003 and 2007, President Muhammadu Buhari as ANPP Presidential candidate nominated Igbo prominent sons, Late Chuba Okadigbo and Edwin Ume-Ezeoke as running mates in a contest where there was no Igbo as PDP Presidential candidate or the running mate”.  “Unfortunately, Igbo Elders in PDP influenced the Igbo electorate that Southeast was PDP and will never be in opposition, which influenced Igbo votes against President Muhammadu Buhari in 2003 and 2007, thereafter those circles of elders gained through appointments and contracts”,  “Regretably, there was just skeletal projects sited in the Southeast and igbos suffered bad roads and other infrastructural problems.  “OYC regretted the episode of events of 2015 and 2019, where Ohanaeze Ndigbo erroneously rejected President Muhammadu Buhari’s letter thrice to have audience with Apex Igbo Organisation, rather without proper consultative dialogue and approval from igbos over the Buhari’s letter.  “The ugly incident happened even where there was no Igbo PDP presidential candidates. These few circles of elders considered only their percunairy interests ahead of Igbo welfare and collective interests.  “Whatever happens today was the direct consequences of the rogue operations of these Igbo political musketeers masquerading as Elders manipulating Ohanaeze Ndigbo platform for their individual Interests.  “President Muhammadu Buhari’s government through harmonious relationship between Southeast Governors, had attracted monumental projects sited in the Southeast, like Commencement of Work on Second Niger Bridge, Erosion Control Sites, Construction Works in most Major expressways in the Southeast.  “Others include the upgrading of Enugu International Airport, approval for a new Abakiliki International Airport, approval of Free Trade Zone for Abia Enyimba Economic City but igbos still expect railways across the Southeast”.