The outbreak of COVID-19 and its negative effect on the health and economic sectors has forced down the revenue curve of most states of the federation. Like Nigeria and its sub-nationals, some emerging and frontier market economies are facing refinancing risks, just as market access has dried up for some. LEADERSHIP findings revealed that financial conditions are yet to ease around the country amidst aggravated vulnerabilities. More states in Nigeria recorded massive drop in revenue generation in the first quarter of 2020, with some recording up to 30 per cent decline in revenue mobilisation in the first 3 to 4 months. The negative growth in income for the Q1 2020 was obviously occasioned by the restriction of movements and lockdown of businesses across the country to curb spread of the coronavirus pandemic. LEADERSHIP investigations revealed that over 60 per cent of the 36 states of the federation had a drop in total revenues during this period. From North to South, the situation is the same, with only few states recording slight increase in revenue collection under the current COVID-19-induced economic downturn. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) had projected that Nigeria was heading to a recession in 2020, its worst in three decades. The IMF predicted that the nation’s economy will recede by -5.4% in 2020 in its recent economic outlook report. Lagos State commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Sam Egube told our correspondent that the state‘s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) would drop to between 21 per cent and 30 per cent, and that would result in shrinkage in the budget. Lagos state recorded N398.73 billion IGR in the fourth quarter of 2020, making it the state with the highest IGR in the period. To now restart the economy, Lagos is planning to optimise the state’s budget for investments in jobs and priority sectors through job creation, economic stabilisation and fiscal consolidation. The situation appears worse in the neighbouring state of Oyo where revenue generation took an embarrassing nosedive. Following the breakdown of the COVID-19 pandemic in Oyo State, the state government said its economic fortunes took a turn for the worse, causing it to be spending without getting returns to the state’s coffer. The state government told our correspondent that about N375 million was realised as donations by the state government. Rivers State which followed Lagos with N140.40billion in IGR in the Q4 2019 could not record a marginal increase in her revenues in Q1. The reduction in the revenue accruing to the state has been blamed on the total lockdown of Port Harcourt City, Obio/Akpor local government area, as well as Bonny local government area and Onne community in Eleme local government area that hosts majority of the oil companies with over 50 per cent of the state revenues. Also revenue collection in Kaduna State dropped to between 50 to 60 per cent of the budgeted revenue for the first quarter. Chairman of the Kaduna Internal Revenue Services, Dr Zaid Abubakar, told our correspondent that the pandemic has affected revenue generation in the state for almost four months of the. According to him, revenue generation had been dwarfed to a large extent before the easing of the lockdown in the state. „In spite of the challenges we have done pretty well by maintaining 50-60 percent collections during the lockdown. Although we are not where we should be but we are doing our best to provide the state with the needed revenue to provide governance for the state,” he noted. However, the situation is slightly positive in some states like Imo and Borno States. For instance, Imo State said it generated the sum of N4.8billion, a figure higher than the N2,988billion it generated in the last quarter of 2019. The pandemic and the statewide lockdown worsened economic output of some states with existing vulnerabilities like insecurity. Borno State, for instance, recorded a total of N6.7bn in one year prior to the pandemic season in the country. Amidst Boko Haram insurgency, the state government said it generated N6.7billion within the last one year from its internally generated revenue in Q1 2020.  At National Prayer, SGF, Christian Leaders Seek God’s Intervention Meanwhile, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, and some Christian leaders in the country yesterday sought God intervention to end the Coronavirus pandemic at the Interdenominational Church Prayer Service organised by the Nigerian Interreligious Council (NIREC) in Abuja. The SGF who is the chairman of the presidential task force on COVID-19 also called on Nigerians to stop exhibiting reckless confidence in the face of the ravaging pandemic. In his address at the prayer, Mustapha also called on the leaders of the Church to always teach their congregation the truth about the virus and how they can stay safe for their families and communities. On the ease of the lockdown order, he said that government directives on lockdown order were not intended to inflict pains on Nigerians, adding that it was a national response done all over the world. Calling on Nigerians to adhere to safety guidelines, he urged Nigerians to stay at home if they don’t have any reason to go out of their home. He said, „If you have no business going out, stay at home; it is scriptural and I will undertone this with a quotation for Proverbs 14:16 where the bible says, “One who is wise is cautious and turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless… “I see a lot of Christians exhibiting reckless confidence and the Bible describes them as fools. Stay at home if you don‘t have business going out. That is the safest place you have. If you have every genuine reason to go out, as mandatory, wear a face mask. „My admonition to the church is that we must stop exhibition of reckless confidence and tell our people the truth and ask them to do the proper things so that they can stay safe for their families, communities and for the body of Christ.“ Mustapha said the national response that the government has put in place was intended to protect the people of Nigeria. „It is not designed to inflict suffering on us. Every step we have taken as a presidential task force has been intended to provide for the good and welfare of the citizens,“ he said. In his message, the Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Most Reverend Ignatius Kaigama said, „As Christians, even in tough and challenging times we should know that God is in charge and then our thoughts. „In the wake of disasters or grave danger, the tendency is to pray feverishly but as soon as it passes, we return to ground zero of prayer. “Obviously, this is a classic case of panic spirituality. We must not run to God only when in the face of danger. God gives us 168 hours a week, 1440 minutes a day. How much time do we spend in conversation with Him? Yet we spend far more time watching television, speaking to friends on the phone, or engaged in social media activities. “Social distancing does not mean distance from God or to come to Him only when there is „fire on the mountain“; neither does it mean that we pray so much to God whom we cannot see, but neglect to do good to the neighbours we see. “Social distancing does not mean being cold, insensitive, indifferent or antisocial towards others“. Earlier, executive secretary NIREC, Reverend Cornelius Omonokhua, noted that the interdenominational prayers aligned with the duty of NIREC to support the efforts of the federal government.  Global Daily Figure Hits 212,000 The World Health Organisation has reported a record increase in global coronavirus cases, with the total rising by 212,326 in 24 hours. The biggest increases were from the United States, Brazil and India, according to WHO’s daily report. The previous WHO record for new cases was 189,077 on June 28 and deaths have remained steady at about 5,000 a day. Global coronavirus cases exceeded 11 million on Friday, according to a Reuters tally, marking another milestone in the spread of the disease that has killed more than half a million people in seven months.  Madagascar Re-imposes Lockdown Meanwhile, Madagascar has placed its capital Antananarivo under a fresh lockdown following a new surge in coronavirus infections, two months after the restrictions were eased, that country’s presidency announced yesterday. “The Analamanga region (under which the capital is situated) is returning to full lockdown,” the presidency said in a statement. No traffic will be allowed in or out of the region starting today until July 20. A strict curfew will be imposed on street movement by people. “Only one person per household is allowed to go out into the street between 6:00 am (0400 GMT) and 12:00 pm (1000 GMT),” said the statement. The measures have been taken “because of the spread of the epidemic and the increase of COVID-19 cases,” it added. Used to registering dozens of coronavirus cases a day, Madagascar has in recent days seen an exponential rise in daily numbers, jumping to a record 216 cases on Saturday. The latest tally came after 675 people were tested.  Private Schools’ Owners Train 300 On Reopening Strategies The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), FCT chapter, has begun capacity building for no fewer than 300 of its members following planned reopening of schools. The virtual training and workshop series scheduled to hold throughout July with the theme, „Re-opening: Insight series for NAPPS FCT schools,“ is aimed at empowering the members on schools re-opening strategies in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking during the training which held virtually, the president of the chapter, Mrs Olusola Bankole said the training was part of the association’s social responsibility to support federal government’s plan to reopen schools. According to her, the series of virtual trainings and workshops on schools reopening would take every aspect of health and safety into consideration. „Other aspects of the webinar seminar are business continuity sessions and finance discussions peculiar to schools in FCT and the country in general,“ she noted. Bankole said that over 300 schools registered for the first part of the series, with additional representation from school proprietors from Enugu, Nasarawa, Niger and Kaduna states. She continued: „Apart from that, we also have over 100 public school principals and teachers from across the country in attendance. The National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), FCT Chapter, wants to get her member-schools set for resumption. “The executives had earlier initiated a series of thought-provoking and honest sessions, and the fallout of all that is the structured Zoom webinars. The health training contents are part of the guidelines intended for schools; it conforms to the standards of WHO and NCDC, and a team of experts are supporting.” Dr Bukola Dosunmu, a healthcare expert, said at the event that there was the need for schools to make their resumption plans to suit their peculiar structures, advising that each school should take its staff number and space capacity into consideration. No fewer than 300 persons comprising members of NAPPS from FCT, Enugu, Niger, Nasarawa and Kaduna chapters, as well as principals and teachers in public schools participated in the online meeting.  Reopening Of Schools Premature, Says ANAP Think Tank But the ANAP Foundation COVID-19 Think Tank (ANAP Think Tank) has described the decision to open up schools in the country by the federal government as „premature.“ The ANAP Think Tank in a statement jointly signed by its chairman, Atedo Peterside and vice-chairman, Abubakar Mohammed, made available to LEADERSHIP yesterday in Abuja said it viewed with great concern the proposal to reopen schools for graduating students. It noted that science and data reveal that the pandemic was currently at the community transmission phase and was still approaching its peak. The statement reads in part: „Having school children from different homes gather in enclosed classrooms and interacting closely for long hours at this stage of our epidemic will, in our opinion, portend great danger for the pupils, their teachers and their immediate families. “We have followed with keen interest the recent approval by the federal government, through the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 (PTF), of new guidelines to fight the spread of the pandemic while easing up some sectors to gradually resume socio-economic activities in the country. The Anap Think Tank highly commends the government for lifting the ban on interstate travel which had been observed more in its breach, giving way to preferential treatment of travellers and a high level of malpractice in its enforcement. We also welcome the proposed resumption of air travel as this will be based on well-established international protocols which make air travel relatively safe.“ The ANAP Think Tank, however, said although the presidential task force on COVID-19 (PTF) has specified appropriate protocols as safeguards, it was aware that most schools, especially the public ones, will not have the required resources to put these in place, nor the wherewithal to moderate children‘s behaviour. The group, therefore, appealed to the government and all stakeholders involved to exercise caution by following the science of the disease as established to avoid exposing the population to large-scale COVID-19 infection. It stressed that the country should be cautious not to find itself in the situation of countries like Israel and South Africa that have had to reverse their premature school reopening due to severe spikes in infections amongst the pupils, staff and their families. It continued: „We urge that opening of schools be delayed for a few more weeks to see our COVID-19 epidemic peak and begin to reverse, before embarking on any school reopening plans, even for graduating classes. This is the current global best practice. “It is our belief that graduating students can still get back on track with their future careers by taking their examinations just ahead of general school reopening, when the epidemic curve might have flattened, and it is much safer to resume classes“.  Ghanaian President Goes Into Self-isolation Meanwhile, Ghanaian president, Nana Akufo-Addo, has gone into self-isolation for two weeks after one of his contacts tested positive. Ghana ministry of Information said in a statement yesterday that the president went into isolation as a precautionary measure despite testing negative for COVID-19. “President Nana Akufo-Addo will henceforth be working from the presidential villa in Accra, the country’s information minister,“ Kojo Oppong Nkrumah confirmed. The statement reads: “On the advice of doctors, the President of the Republic, Nana Akufo-Addo, is from today, July 4, 2020 taking a fourteen (14) day precautionary self- isolation measure in compliance with Covid-19 protocols. „The President has elected to do so after at least one person within his close circle tested positive forCovid-19 today.  Benue Varsity DVC, Zamfara NCDC Supervisor Die Of Virus The deputy vice chancellor, Administration of Benue State University (BSU) Màkurdi, Professor Godwin Achinge who tested of COVID-19 few days ago is dead Professor Achinge who is also a member of  the state COVID-19 Action  Committee was said to have died of complications emanating from the virus. A statement by the secretary of the COVID-19 committee, Dr. Sunday Ongbabo, hinted that Professor Achinge died yesterday morning at a facility in Jos where he was taken to after he tested positive for COVID-19 early last week. Recall that last week the vice chancellor of the school, Professor Msugh Kembe, had tested positive to the virus with some of his principal staff. Our Correspodent gathered that based on this, the whole school is shutdown to avoid spread of the pandemic. Meanwhile, A Coronavirus supervisor posted to Zamfara state by the National Council for the Disease Control (NCDC) to supervise the spread and control of COVID 19, Dr J.J. Shalanga, has died of the disease. Shalanga had been in the state since the beginning of the spread of the disease three months ago. The state commissioner of health, Alhaji Yahaya Kanoma, who disclosed this said Dr Shalanga fell sick in his hotel room and was rushed to the Yariman Bakura Specialist Hospital Gusau for treatment but died on the road before reaching the hospital. The commissioner said when his blood was tested, it was discovered that he died of Coronavirus. Kanoma said the deceased has been taken to his hometown in Plateau State for burial. The commissioner debunked rumour that the state has stopped blood test of victims suspected to be infected with COVID-19, adding that, „there was never a time when the test was stopped“. Police Arrest 121 For Violating Face Mask Order In A/Ibom Police in Akwa Ibom State have arrested 121 people persons for violating the government’s directive on compulsory use of face mask in public places. The  state  Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Nnudam Fredrick, who made this known at the weekend  in Uyo said the arrest was made in line with the provisions of the Quarantine and Restriction of Movement (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020. The police spokesman noted that the culprits will be arraigned in court for prosecution in order to serve as a deterrent to others. He said, “The arrested offenders would be arraigned in the special courts established in the three Senatorial Districts to serve as a deterrent to others. “Consequently, the Police Command enjoins the good people of the State to always use facemasks in public places as the Command will continue to arrest and prosecute violators”.  CACOVID Donates N1.4bn Medical Equipment, 26,400 Test Kits To NCDC Meanwhile, to boost COVID-19 testing across the country, the private sector-led Coalition against COVID-19 (CACOVID) has donated N1.4 billion worth of medical supplies and additional 26,400 test kits sufficient to set up six fully functional COVID-19 medical laboratories in the fight against the pandemic. Presenting the test kits and medical equipment to Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in Lagos, the CEO, Aliko Dangote Foundation, Zouera Youssoufou commended the efforts of the public health institute in the fight against the virus and expressed optimism that the test kits and medical supplies provided would further expand testing capabilities across the nation to meet critical health infrastructure need to combat the virus. “On behalf of COCAVID, we are delighted to hand over the following items to you, MicPCR Realtime PCR Systems; RNA Extraction Kits; Well PCR Tube Strips; Well Semi-skirted PCR Plates; Pipette Tips; Oral and Nasal Swab Sets; Tongue Depressors, Viral Transport Media; Disposable Latex Medical Gloves etc. These items can sufficiently set up six medical laboratories and collect samples for over 26,400 people,” Zouera said. Receiving the items, deputy director, NCDC, Mrs Babatunde Olajumoke, thanked CACOVID for the donation and described the gesture as integral to the successful of COVID-19 response in the country. She said, “On behalf of the director-general of the NCDC, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, we want to thank you for your help in strengthening national COVID-19 response. We acknowledge and applaud your contributions. “The capacity to test is very integral to the success of COVID-19 response by confirming, isolating, managing cases and containing outbreak in communities. The NCDC, DG had earlier communicated plans to expand testing to three million people in three months and donations like this will surely help in achieving this goal.” Also speaking at the handover event, Team Lead, NCDC, Rapid Response Team Lagos, Dr. Kola Jinadu, said the continuous support and donations by CACOVID over the last months has saved so many lives and thanked the coalition for committing invaluable resources towards this cause. This donation comes on the heels of the recent commissioning of a 150-bed isolation center in Yaba, Lagos, one of the 38 isolation centers set up across the nation to provide adequate treatment to those infected by the virus and stop the overall spread of the virus within the state.  Oyo, Lagos  Discharge 147  Patients Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde has disclosed that the state has discharged 102 Coronavirus patients from various isolation centres across the state. Makinde said that the patients were discharged after they received their second negative tests. The governor, who made this declaration via a post on his verified Facebook account, also disclosed that the state recorded 15 new confirmed cases. According to him, this brings the total number of confirmed cases in the state to 1466. He said, “102 confirmed COVID-19 cases received their second negative test results and have been discharged. This brings the number of discharged cases in Oyo State to 809. „Also, the COVID-19 confirmation tests for fifteen suspected cases came back POSITIVE. The cases are from Ibadan North (5), Ibadan South West (3), Egbeda (3), Oluyole (2), Lagelu (1) and Akinyele (1) Local Government Areas. So, the total number of confirmed cases in Oyo State today is 1466.“ Similarly, the Lagos State ministry of Health has announced the discharge of 45 recovered patients from its facilities. In a tweet from its official account, the government said, “Today, 45 fully recovered #COVID19Lagos patients; 18 females & 27 males including 4 foreign nationals were discharged from our Isolation facilities to reunite with the society.