The chairman of the Niger State Taskforce on COVID-19, who is also the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmed Matane has reiterated that government is not hoarding the food items donated as palliatives to reduce the effect of COVID-19. He stated this while on inspection of the items donated so far, adding that the government is making efforts to ensure that the guidelines given by the donors are adhered to. Alhaji Ahmed Matane explained that the food items, which were donated  about two months ago, were intact, adding that the process of supply was still ongoing and the beneficiaries would be identified and profiled when the items have been completely supplied. He assured the people that in line with the zero tolerance to corruption policy of the Governor Abubakar Sani Bello-led administration, the process would be transparently carried out in due course. The palliative items supplied include cartons of noodles, spaghetti, macaroni, bags of rice, semovita as well as sugar and  among others. The items are currently stored at three different locations in government stores in Minna. Also speaking Niger State Coordinator for the Coalition of Private Sector Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), Alhaji Abdullahi Muhammad said that donation of food items to the state to cushion the effect of the coronavirus pandemic on the vulnerable people in the state is still ongoing, therefore the items cannot be distributed for now. Alhaji Abdullahi Muhammad announced that out of the 88 trucks of the items expected to be delivered to the state, only 73 trucks have so far been received while 15 of such trucks are being awaited. He said the items which are to be shared as a full package to 47, 611 vulnerable households in the state in accordance to the guidelines given by the CACOVID, can only be distributed when supplies are complete as captured in the distribution guidelines presented by the donors. “We have received items, but it is a continuous process and until these items are complete, no distribution will be made  because in the  template of CACOVID all these items will  have to be put together to make a package,” he added. He said that only 9,000 bags of rice which is one of the major items have been received as against the 47,611 bags that are expected, hence they cannot be distributed for now.