The federal government announced yesterday that it is granting 60 per cent debt forgiveness for all debtor broadcast stations in the country as part of efforts to ensure they are financially sustainable. According to the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country has seriously affected the revenue base of many of the broadcast stations to the effect that many of them are indebted to the federal government to the tune of N7.8 billion. There is also the fear that many radio and television stations may not be able to renew their licenses because of their indebtedness. The minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who announced the debt forgiveness during a press briefing in Abuja yesterday, also hinted that the NBC has been directed to grant two-month license-fee waiver to terrestrial broadcast stations in the country as part of efforts to ease the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the broadcast industry. Mohammed however said that the criterion for enjoying the debt forgiveness is for debtor stations to pay 40 per cent of their existing debt within the next three months. He stressed that any station that is unable to pay the balance of 40 per cent indebtedness within the three months window shall forfeit the opportunity to enjoy the stated debt forgiveness. The minister said, “The existing license fee is further discounted by 30 per cent for all Open Terrestrial Radio and Television services effective 10 July, 2020 “The debt forgiveness shall apply to functional licensed Terrestrial Radio and Television stations only. The debt forgiveness and discount shall not apply to pay TV service operators.” He noted the effective date of the debt forgiveness shall be 10 July, 2020 to 6 October, 2020. The information minister said the federal government made the interventions with a view to repositioning the broadcast Industry to play its critical role in promoting democracy and good governance in Nigeria. He continued: “As you know, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected all sectors of the nation’s economy. The broadcast industry has been particularly hard-hit due to falling revenues occasioned by the dwindling adverts and sponsored programmes, in the wake of the pandemic. “It is our expectation that the sector will cash in on this unique opportunity to make itself an effective catalyst for national development”. He recalled that on May 6, 2020, he received fficials and other representatives of the Broadcasting Organisations of Nigeria (BON), who made a comprehensive presentation on the effects of the pandemic on the industry and sought critical interventions by federal and state governments. Mohammed said the Post-COVID-19 Initiatives Committee for the Creative Industry, which was set up to help mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic on the creative industry as a whole, has submitted its report, which contained recommendations that will benefit all component parts of the larger creative industry. He stated: “However, without prejudice to those recommendations, I want to announce today a number of Broadcast Industry-specific measures aimed at giving a lifeline to the industry which, though largely a business, continues to function as a critical social service of sorts, which is relevant to the information and enlightenment needs of the people. “These measures are in addition to the two-month license-fee waiver granted to terrestrial broadcast stations in the country by the NBC, as part of efforts to ease the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the broadcast industry “Against this background, the management of the NBC has therefore recommended, and the federal government has accepted, the following measures to revamp the Broadcast Industry and to help reposition it for the challenges of business, post-COVID-19”. Mohammed further noted that pay-as- you-go was workable in the country. According to him, StarTimes is operating it already, adding that he has already asked the acting DG NBC to do the needful. Also speaking the acting director-general of the NBC, Prof Armstrong Idachaba, said the NBC will review its code in the next two years, assuring that the commission will follow due process. He said the commission does not want a situation where there would be a monopoly leading to the exclusion of others, noting that the process will be all encompassing. On the issue of pay-as-you-go, he said Nigeria has been soft on that. He stated, “If it is implemented, Nigerians will not be charged for services they did not consume. As a regulator, we are going to enforce it. “Service providers stand to gain more on pay-as-you-go since more people will subscribe to it.”