Leading pay-TV entertainment company, DStv recently emerged as the Most Admired Media Brand in Africa and the Most Admired African Brand in Nigeria following a continent-wide survey by Brand Africa. The Brand Africa’s top 100 Most Admired Brands in Africa, established 10 years ago, is a consumer-led survey which seeks to establish brand preferences across Africa. In the Most Admired Media Brand in Africa category, DStv, Channels Television and Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) took the lead respectively while in the Most Admired African Brands in Nigeria brand category Dangote, MTN and DStv took the lead respectively. The MultiChoice-owned brand has become highly revered in Nigeria for providing its audience with quality content which includes an array of shows on Africa Magic, the Big Brother Naija (BBNaija), Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Award (AMVCA), MultiChoice Talent Factory, live football matches and other sporting activities. According to an inside source, the driving force for Multichoice is putting the customer first and constantly listening to customers’ feedback. This attention to customer needs and feedback is no doubt why DStv has continuously provided its audience with content that resonates with them. Speaking on the recognition, Chief Customer Officer, Martin Manutho said, “We believe that as Africans, we have what it takes to take our brands to the next level and even compete favourably with global brands. It is what drives us at MultiChoice to continuously create and enhance our platforms to showcase these excellent African brands”. Apart from dishing out exciting content and telling African stories, MultiChoice has also played a massive role in shaping Nigerian pop culture. Nigerian pop culture is impressively pervasive, influencing the rest of Africa and is now spreading across the world. According to a recent PwC report, Nigeria’s entertainment and media industry will cross the $10 billion dollar mark by 2023. Over the years, the brand consistently leveraged Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities to connect with the market and enrich lives. Recently, MultiChoice also partnered with One Africa Global Foundation to organize the Hope for Africa Benefit Concert. The concert was put together to raise funds for medical practitioners and support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Africa. It would be recalled that in April, MultiChoice announced a commitment of N1.2 billion to support Nigeria in fighting the pandemic and also opened its Free-to-Air stations so that subscribers can watch even when their subscription ends.