The Nigerians in Diaspora Monitoring Group (NDMG), UK Chapter, says the country needs the experience of its Service Chiefs now more than ever especially with recent successes recorded against terrorists and bandits. In a statement signed by its President, Mark Kola, on Tuesday in London, the group said those calling for their dismissal are sponsored to promote an escalation of the crimes being committed against Nigerians by terrorists. According to the Nigerians in the diaspora, there is an agenda to use the demand for the Service Chiefs’ sack as an excuse to cause further security breaches and those behind this act are doing so on behalf of the opposition and certain foreign interests. After reviewing the security concerns in the country, the Nigerians in Diaspora Monitoring Group concluded that the experience of the military heads is necessary to defeat complicated and foreign-sponsored conspiracies. NDMG urged President Muhammadu Buhari to resist those attempting to coerce him into error as “countries do not run their defence and security on the basis of political correctness”. The group, however, advised Nigerians being used by foreign interests to look beyond the pittance they are being paid to run their current errand. The statement reads: “The Nigerians in Diaspora Monitoring Group has keenly followed the misplaced call for President Muhammadu Buhari to sack the Service Chiefs of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. We would have ordinarily avoided joining issues with those making these calls as we are at this point focused on providing palliatives and educational materials to enlighten our kith and kin at home about the COVID-19 Pandemic, which is life-threatening on many levels. However, it became imperative that we wade into the debate following our discovery that all is not what it seems. The innocuous-seeming calls for the service chiefs to be sacked turned out to be tied to foreign-sponsored conspiracies that are supporting the escalation of the crimes being committed against Nigerians by terrorists. By removing the military leaders, who have expansive experience in managing the crisis, the facilitators of these conspiracies hope to use any resulting transition to wreak havoc on the country since this would be a moment of vulnerability. Leveraging our contacts in the diaspora, we have uncovered a plot to use the demand for the sack of the service chiefs as an excuse to cause further security breaches. These plots are being managed from outside the shores of Nigeria and those behind them are exploiting video calling platforms to hold their meetings with operatives in Nigeria while funds are allegedly being electronically wired to the bank accounts of the arrowheads of the movement to force Mr President to ease the service chiefs out of office. We are acutely concerned that the unfolding scenario excessively tallies with the projections and forecasts made by some groups in the run-up to the 2019 General Elections that there were opposition elements that are desperate to take over power by all means and that a coerced change of service chiefs would be the first step in an extensive plan that will unleash crisis of unmanageable proportion on the country. We are further alarmed that those behind the calls for the service chiefs to be fired have been uncomfortably silent about the foreign connections of Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists, the banditry imported from Nigeria’s northern neighbours and other mutating crimes that were hitherto unknown to Nigerians. This gives credence to the summation that the people calling for the sack are doing so on behalf of the opposition and certain foreign interests. The Nigerians in Diaspora Monitoring Group has taken time to review the nature of security concerns in the country and we have come to the conclusion that Nigeria needs the experience of her Service Chiefs to defeat these complicated and foreign-sponsored conspiracies against its sovereignty. We consequently urge President Buhari to be the Commander-in-Chief as enshrined in the constitution, which demands that he resists those attempting to coerce him into error. Countries the world over do not run their defence and security on the basis of political correctness; countries are secured on the strength of pragmatism. Meanwhile, our charge to the Nigerians being used by these foreign interests to pressure the country into error is that they should look beyond the pittance they are being paid to run their current errand. In the event that they are sorely pressed for feeding money, they are welcome to contact the United Kingdom Chapter Nigerians in Diaspora Monitoring Group for palliatives to ensure that they desist from selling their fatherland for a mess of pottage.