TEXT: MARK 14:53-65 We are getting closer to the crucifixion in the record of the story of our Lord Jesus Christ. We have looked at His betrayal and arrest, the next thing is the trial. We want to look at the process of the trial today. As they arrested Him, they took Him to the high priest to be tried before handing Him over to the officers who would crucify Him. We can see that the religious leaders were unjust in the way they tried Jesus. They had made up their minds that this is the judgment they would pass. They had not even tried Him and no one had witnessed against Him, yet they conspired and pronounced Him guilty. It was a make belief and superficial trial. This was against the instruction God gave them that, there must be real witnesses for and against the accused. They were unjust. Acts 2:23; 7:52. Stephen accused the Jews of being unjust to prophets sent to them by God just as they were to Jesus. Jesus is just, He did no sin or evil, it was the people accusing and judging Him that were unjust and imperfect. This was the case of the imperfect judging the perfect, the sinful judging the righteous and holy, and the unjust judging the one who is perfectly just without evil.  Matthew 27:19,24; Acts 3:14; 22:14; I Peter 3:18. Pilate’s wife sent a message to her husband to ensure he does not have a hand in condemning the just man. So, he got water and washed his hands off the case and said he was innocent of the blood of the just man. Christ suffered for us, He is the Just, while we are the unjust. He was put to death but He rose up again for our justification.  They led Jesus to the high priest and the Sahendrin made up of the chief priests, the elders and the scribes. They sought for witnesses who would say what they want them to say as an excuse to put Him to death, they wanted to get rid of Him by all means. They were looking for legitimate reasons to give to the public to do this, but they found none. There was a law that God made on how to handle cases at judgment which these accusers said they were following (Exodus 20:12-17) In verse 16, God says no one should bear false witness against anyone. In fact, God went ahead to say that the punishment meant to be given to the falsely accused should be meted on the false witness. Deuteronomy 19:16-19. Judgment should be carried out meticulously and diligently and it must be during the day, but surprisingly, Jesus was tried in the night. They were so much in a hurry that they could not wait for the day to break. In Jesus’ case, the false accusers of Jesus were supposed to be hanged but there was so much lawlessness at that time. Jesus was hanged instead. These chief priests would shout abomination if someone comes to the synagogue and is incorrectly dressed, or makes any minor mistakes. But look at it, in handling Jesus’ case, they broke several laws of God, thereby committing greater abomination. Proverbs 6:16-19 The rulers of the Jews lied against Christ. They misconstrued and changed His words and used them to bear false witness against Him. God hates false accusers (I Timothy 1:9-10) Laws are made for the accused, lawless and disobedient and not to condemn the righteous as these people have done to Jesus. For what they have done, they will never go free, all those involved in accusing Jesus wrongly did not go unpunished. They said the blood of Jesus should be upon their heads and those of their children. They got what they said because barely 40 years later, in AD 70, General Titus came to Jerusalem, leveled the whole city, and destroyed the temple. We were told that hundreds and thousands of them were crucified at various times and locations in Rome. Proverbs 25:18. The one who makes it a duty to bear false witness will not be unpunished. The judgment of God will come upon all false accusers. They shall not enter heaven (Revelation 21:27) False witnessing and bringing trouble to another person is abomination. A false witness is a liar, a big, dangerous and murderous liar. They bore false witnesses against Jesus and despite the fact that there were contradictions here and there, the high priest still used the false accusations to condemn Him.  The Bible says, if any man is in Christ Jesus, he is a new creature, old things have passed away, and all things have become new. If anyone is in Christ, he would know that He has left an example for us that we should follow in His steps. We are to live by the faith, confidence and courage of the Son of God who loved and died for us. We need to understand that as we see Jesus before the condemning world, and we see His attitude, courage, faith, firmness in confirming what He said when things were easy, when there was no persecution and false witnessing, He confirmed those things when problems came.