Lawyers and other Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) in the country have split down the middle on whether or not there should be special court to address cases involving children. There has been controversy over constant abuse of children by their parents and guardians, prompting stakeholders to call for the introduction of special juvenile court to handle cases of abuse of children. While some lawyers and CSOs who spoke with LEADERSHIP said there are enough laws in the 1999 constitution (as amended) to deal with the situation, others argued that there should be at least one special juvenile court in each of the six geopolitical zones in the country. A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Ahmed Raji, said there was no need for special courts because what the nation has on ground is adequate. The learned silk submitted: ”There is no need for any special court. What we have on ground is adequate.  Let there be thorough investigation and diligent prosecution, our judges will do the needful. ”The law is that a person intends the natural and probable consequences of his conduct. If in the course of committing the offence, he engages in conduct that is likely to lead to death and death results therefrom, he is liable to a death sentence without much ado. ”Special court is not the issue but rather it is thorough  investigation married with a diligent prosecution that is needed”. A United States based lawyer and Coordinator of Justice for Jos, Barrister Emmanuel Ogebe, said there is no need for special court to try offenders. According to him, the creation of a special court that is gender or crime-specific would be highly unusual. Ogebe, the son of a retired Supreme Court Justice, Justice James Ogebe said, ”It is best left to existing courts as our problem in Nigeria is not lack of institutions but lack of political will on the part of operators of the institutions to enforce existing law. ”In the Phillipines, many years ago, the government instituted the death penalty for such crime. A millionaire and his friends molested an actress and although he begged and pleaded for forgiveness he was executed. ”When people saw that regardless of his wealth, he didn’t get away, it served as a deterrent to others. Another constitutional lawyer, Abdul Balogun, said there was no need for a special court to try cases of abuse of children. According to him, the laws are there and the judiciary also has competent hands to adjudicate on such cases. ”Creating a special court now will amount to multiplicity of courts which we don’t need at this time. Already, the judiciary is crying of  lack of funds and going ahead to create courts now to try these cases is another financial burden on the judiciary”, he said. Also, an Abuja-based lawyer, Emeka Anuforo, condemned violent action against children but called for caution in the establishment of special court. He said child abuse is inhuman and perpetrators should be dealt with according to the law. To him, having a special court to try offenders is not necessary as that will further affect the budget of the he judiciary. But a non-governmental organisation (NGO), Save the Children International (SCI) Nigeria, has urged the federal government to establish at least one special children’s court in each of the six geopolitical zones. The NGO also called for establishment of dedicated law enforcement units within the Nigerian Police, Security and Defense forces, agencies and services in the  zones. In a statement jointly signed by Purity Oriaifo,  Girl Child Ambassador of SCI Nigeria, and Maryam Ahmed, Youth Ambassador of SCI, Nigeria, the SCI said that the court would protect and ensure justice for survivors of child abuse. It also requested government to design a child-led comprehensive, multi-sectoral national development agenda and plan for children. The organisation urged government at all levels to prioritise the implementation and domestication of the Child Rights Act 2003. It stressed that the implementation and domestication of the Act would provide children in Nigeria with the necessary legal policy framework  to seek justice when their rights are denied or abused. The organisation expressed worry over Nigerian children’s education, protection and safety amidst COVID-19, saying there had not been any child-friendly and child-focused COVID-19 response initiative. But an Ilorin-based lawyer, Omotayo Ishola, disagreed with SCI, saying the nation has sufficient courts and relevant extant laws in her  jurisprudence to try cases of child’s abuse. “All we need is to appoint more judges at magisterial and high court levels so that the Chief Judge  of each state High Court can use fiat to establish  sundry tribunals for each of these criminal offenses subject to the consent of each state legislature,” he noted. On his part, the founder of Help Women Foundation, Mrs Bola Olupinla, expressed support for the establishment of special courts to try child’s abuse cases. She noted that cases of child’s abuse were on the increase because of the seemingly low pace at which such cases were adjudicated upon in the regular courts. Mrs Olupinla posited that there will be speedy dispensation of justice on child’s abuse cases at the special courts, and this in turn will bring about a drastic reduction in child abuse offenses in the country. Toeing the same line, Mrs Awele Ideal, an Asaba based legal practitioner and child rights advocate, said she was in support of the establishment of a special children’s court in each of the six geopolitical zones to try cases of child abuse and other related matters. “Yes, I gladly support the establishment of a special court to tackle cases of child abuses and other related matters, because it will enhance the activities of  Civil Society Organizations in the quests for justice especially at the community level for rape and child right violators”, she argued. Awele who was a victim of child abuse, however, called on the National Assembly to enact laws with tougher measures against sexual violence and child abuses. Another lawyer, Barrister Usman Abu, noted that establishing special courts in all of the six geopolitical zones will be the best thing to  do to allow for quick justice and proper investigation of all cases relating to child abuse. ” hitherto most suspects languish in jail and end up becoming innocent, so if such cases are handled within close jurisdictions with  the required urgency and proper investigations, it will help for quick dispense of justice across board”, he stressed. For Barrister Mas’ud Alabelewe, while the establishment of a special children’s court in each of the six geopolitical zones to try cases of child abuse and other related matters is a welcomed development. He advocated a total overhaul of the judicial system to ensure that the judges are not overwhelmed. President of the Arewa Defence League (ADL), Abubakar Muhammed,  on his part said the rising cases of child abuse certainly requires a specialised courts to handle the cases to ensure quick justice, save the innocent people and give justice to the victims in good time. For Barr John Tsok, executive director of Centre for Human Rights and Prevention of Trafficking in Persons, both the Child Rights Act and the Child Rights Law of Plateau State have provisions that state that Family Courts shall be established to handle matters that border on child offenders and the victims. According to him, the courts to be established will have Magistral and High Court jurisdiction respectively because as for rape cases, they can only be tried by the High Court. “My take is that both gederal and state governments should hasten the establishment of the Family Courts to handle such abuses.” Another lawyer, Barr Francis Jatau, said it was a welcome development, adding that a special court, if established, will tackle the case of incessant abuses and other related offences against the  girl child in the country. Weighing in, the Civil Liberties Organization (CLO) has called for the amendment of the Nigerian Constitution to create room for the establishment of special court to handle child abuse cases. CLO’s South-South zonal chairman, Chinedu Karl Uchegbu, who made the call, while speaking with LEADERSHIP in Port Harcourt, argued that amendment of the Constitution will help to provide specific punishments and sanctions for child abuse offenders. Uchegbu said, “Yes, there is the need for special court to handle child abuse because, of late, child labour, rape and other acts against children are rampant since COVID-19 started. We have seen serious increase in cases of child sexual abuse. “You see old men and adults defiling children. At that level, we are not sure that our laws cover it. There is the need for a special court to attend to such matters. “We need to amend our legal book to specify punishments and sanctions to handle such matters. If there are no appropriate sanctions, childabuse will continue.” A former chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Barr Stanley Damabide said although he supports the establishment of children’scourt which is existing in some states, there are designated family courts. “It is not the establishment of special courts that will address this issue. I suggest we adopt preventive measures as against punitive measures”. Also speaking, the state coordinator of the Environmental Right Action and former Secretary of CLO, backed the establishment of the family court, but said such courts should be backed with establishment of juvenile detention centres. He stated: “Some of us have been advocating for state governments to set up Approve School where certain deviant youths would be made to spend a good part of their maturing years. There used to be one in the Borikiri area of Port Harcourt. This is a home for juvenile offenders and some very stubborn children whom parents would report cases to and the children are taken there. All these cultism related crimes would have been nipped in the bud if society acted. “Instead of having juveniles in same police, military or other security agencies’ cells detained with adults, special juvenile detention centres, courts and correctional centers (approved schools) would be more ideal, especially if education is part of the correctional centre, preferably skills development.” Executive director of Attah Sisters Helping Hands Foundation, Bauchi, Mrs Comfort Attah, however argued that “children commit crime and as such should be tried in a different court of law”. She said provision of separate prisons for juvenile would also help deter other children from committing crimes. Comfort said in other developed countries, special courts “and sometimes tribunals are set to try children because the judges need to have certain expertise and experience in order to handle crimes committed by children.” Also, a legal luminary in Sokoto, Barrister Rashidat Muhammed, has kicked against any plot to establish regional courts to try offences against children. Rashidat who pioneered the drive for a special court to be set up in every state to try rape cases said while they are trying to ensure justice for victims, setting up regional courts will not only hinder trial process but also lead to justice denial. According to her, most rape cases are not followed up by the parents because of their poor status. Rashidat further said attempts to set up such  courts at regional levels has clearly defeated the aim of getting justice for victims. She further stressed that the growing culture of unacceptable cases of rape in Nigeria can only be tamed when the justice system gets closer and accessible to victims. In his opinion, Barrister Hamisu Abdul Wahab, a Kano based legal practitioner said he was totally in support of establishing juvenile courts in the six geo-political zones as doing that will help the minors to be tried separately with decorum. He said the old traditional system where cases of children are brought before the adults is counterproductive because sometimes the children could be exposed to the danger of intermingling with hardened criminals, thereby exposing them to variouse crimes. He said establishing children’s courts in the six geo political zones would help check congestion in our court rooms but having the courts at zonal levels would go a long way in providing a level playing ground for children to face their charges without any fear since the special courts are purposely designed to handle their affairs. Abdulwahab said in advanced countries children are given special treatment because of their ages since they have wide-range of opportunities to partake in the socio political development of their nations, hence the need to handle their cases with care. Program manager of Alliances for Africa (AFA), a non governmental organization, Blessing Duru, supported the clamour for special courts to try cases of child abuse and other related matters in every state and judicial division. According to her, the special courts will help to protect the minors from the antics of lawyers permitted in normal courts. On her part, a female lawyer, Barrister Adaora Ekenma, described the special courts as a welcome development, saying they will help to ensure speedy dispensation of justice. She said the judges who must have been trained for child protection will help to ensure the victims, especially minors, are protected from the prying eyes of the public. In Benue State, a former chairman of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Barr Emmanuel Agbakor,  in a telephone interview with our correspondent, said he would rather support the move for the establishment of special court for the prosecution of gender-related cases in general rather than the establishment of a separate court to try rape offenders. He said, “I must say that a special court can be established for many purposes but for a court to be established only for rape matters, the court will be redundant because what percentages of cases in the court are made up of rape-related offences, as you know the cases are not many. “So  for me, the court will be redundant if it is established specifically for the  purpose of rape matters, but nevertheless a range of cases may be amalgamated into the objectives of the establishment of that court. For instance, if the court is established to try rape and other gender-related matters that will be more broader” “I am of the opinion that establishing special court to try only rape matters sorely may be a redundant court, but a court that has objectives that are broader or rather not as narrow as being limited to one course of action may be better”. “For instance there is a very wide air of specialization expressed in the conduct of cases before the National Industrial Courts because it is a specialized court. So, it handles such cases not only as legal practitioners but also as professionals in the area of labour law”. The newly elected NBA chairman in the state, Barr Justin Gbagir, said, “I don’t subscribe to some offences having separate courts. What we need is an effective court system where cases will be heard and determined expeditiously”. The Benue State coordinator of Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) Dr Helen Teghtegh also said she was fully in support of the establishment of special children’s court in each of the six geopolitical zones to try cases of child abuse and other related matters. She attributed the reason why the Child Right Act provisions are not taken serious in the country be to the nonchalant attitude of those in authority. She stated: “Sorry, I have to be blunt because everyday we have issues of children being raped, teenagers being abused. We are not quiet about this from the civil society angle. We relate with the Police and report such cases to them because that is the best we can do to those who are physically abused or any kind of abuse resulting in physically injury. We take the victim to the hospital and most times our organization bears the cost of treatment. “When they are psychologically affected, we also give the psychosocial support but if the law which is only a government issue is implemented and perpetrators are being punished as stipulated by the law, it will serve as deterrent to others. Also, the state coordinator of the Association Against Child Sexual Gender Based Violence, Beatrice Kelechi Onoja, blamed the  laxity on enforcing the Child Right Act. “Te Child Right Act has been domesticated in the state, it is the implementation that is the problem and we don’t know why the state is not taking the issue serious. “Let me say here that everything that has to do with the child, government does not take it serious and that is why perpetrators of the evil act take advantage of the children because nobody seems to be serious about the whole thing apart from the CSOs who are up and doing trying to ensure that things about Children are put in the right perspective. “So for me, the Child Right Act is not being taken serious in the  state, perhaps, because they feel there is nothing to be serious about or probably since at the national level too they are not serious about it”. Also speaking with our correspondent in Uyo, Barrister Clifford Thomas, said he was in support of children court because six out of every 10 children experience some form of violence while one in four girls and 10 per cent of boys have been victims of sexual violence. “Of the children who reported violence, fewer than five out of a 100 received any form of support. The drivers of violence against children (VAC) are rooted in social norms, including around the use of violent discipline, violence against women and community beliefs about witchcraft, all of which increase children’s vulnerability. “So for me, I am in total support of the establishment of a special court to try anyone found to have abused a child”, he stated. According to him, Nigeria has the largest number of child abuses  in Africa with  millions of  girls and women who were married as children, most of them from poor and rural communities. “So the special court, if established in the nation’s geopolitical zones, will apart from being swift in its approach, will  attend to such cases  and address them specially since the regular court  enough matters to attend to. Similarly, Mr Roland Udoh of the Niger Delta Child Rights Watch (NDCRW)  said that the organization has over the years called for the establishment of  a special court in the six geo-political zones dedicated specially  to try cases of child abuse or any other act of women maltreatment, especially as  Nigeria’s rapid population growth indicated that the number of child abuses  has  in fact increased. ‘”Right now, it is very necessary for the government to create such court and we are in support as it will ensure that  the victims get judgement  in record time”, Udoh noted. But convener CCIDESOR, Ifeany Odor, revealed that the heterogeneous nature of the country could be one of the reasons why the country is not serious abou the Child Rights Act. According to him, the required national cohesion that would enable the nation speak with one voice is lacking and this portend great danger in terms of fusion and whose voice is enlisted. Odor noted that religious inclination play major component as some states believe that part of the contents in the child rights act is against their religious believe. Virtual Court Proceedings Constitutional, Supreme Court Rules  Meanwhile, the Supreme Court yesterday ruled that federal government’s directive that the courts, against the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic outbreak, should adopt virtual or remote sittings was constitutional. The 7-man panel of the apex court led by Justice Bode Rhodes-Vivour reached the decision after it striking out the two suits by Lagos and Ekiti State governments challenging the validity and constitutionality of the virtual court sittings and procedures. The apex court justices told the plaintiffs that their suits lacked merit because their complaints were merely speculative, pre-emptive and without cause of action. “It is either you seek adjournment of the suits sine dine or withdraw  the suits because actions being complained of is yet to mature or taken place”, their Lordships held.  In his response, and considering the stands of the panel, the Lagos state Attorney General and Commissioner of Justice, Mayosore Onigbanjo (SAN), applied for the withdrawal of the suit, a request the court granted and consequently struck out the suit for being presently speculative and academic. The Attorney General of Ekiti state, Olawole Fapohunda (SAN), having listened to the proceeding in the case of the Lagos State government, also applied for the withdrawal of the suit, which was accordingly struck out by the court. The first suit with number: SC/CV/260/2020 filed by the  attorney-general of Lagos State has the minister of Justice and the Attorney General of the Federation  and the National Assembly as the 1st and 2nd defendants respectively. The Lagos state government in the suit prayed the Supreme Court to determine whether having regard to Section 36(1), (3) and (4) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) use of technology by remote hearings of any kind, whether by Zoom, Microsoft Teams, WhatsApp, Skype or any other audio visual or video-conference platform by the Lagos State High Court or any other Courts in Nigeria in aid of hearing and determination of cases are constitutional. When the matter came up on Tuesday, Lagos State attorney-general, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), after taking a hint from the apex court that the suit was speculative and preemptive withdrew the suit. Following its withdrawal, the apex court in a unanimous decision struck it out. However, Justice Rhodes-Vivour in his ruling said, “As of today virtual sitting is not unconstitutional. This suit is speculative and having been withdrawn, it is struck out”. The court also struck out a similar suit marked, ‘’SC/CV/261/2020’’ filed by the attorney-eneral of Ekiti state against the AGF, shortly after the suit was withdrawn. Just like his Lagos counterpart, the Ekiti State AG, Mr Wale Fapounda, withdrew his suit after taking the hint that the suit was preemptive. On its part, Ekiti State had challenged the constitutionality of the directive of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN) to the heads of courts at federal and state levels to adopt Virtual Court Sittings in courts. Fapohunda, in the suit, had asked the apex court to issue an order to annul the directive for the adoption of the Virtual or Remote Court sittings for being inconsistent with Section 1(3), 4(6), 5(2), 6(2), 36(3) and (4), 272 and 274 of the 1999 Constitution. Ekiti State further asked the Supreme Court to determine whether the AGF’s guidelines are not a derogation from the legislative, executive and judicial law-making, law execution and adjudicatory rules making powers exclusively vested in states of the federation in respect of states courts, by virtue of Sections 1(3), 4(6), 5(2), 6(2), 272 and 272 and 274 of the Constitution. He also prayed the apex court to decide whether Lagos and Ogun States having adopted virtual court hearings pursuant to the lockdown, the three arms of Government in Ekiti State are bound to conduct their legislative, executive and judicial functions pertaining to adjudication in state courts in compliance with the directive upon which the National Judicial Council formulated the provisions of Articles E(1) to E(13) of its Guidelines (issued on May 7, 2020).