The All Progressives Congress (APC) has appointed the governor of Kogi State, Yahaya Bello, as the chairman of the Ondo State governorship primary election committee.JONATHAN NDA – ISAIAH writes. In a democracy, elections come up periodically to either elect new leaders or renew the mandate of those seeking re-election as long as they have not exhausted the statutory maximum limits they can be elected into an office. Election, therefore, in a democracy is a necessity. As enshrined in the Constitution (as amended) of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the country’s Electoral Act(as amended), election comes up every four, four years. As it were, there is no room for disruption or interruption in the electoral cycle as that may breed anarchy or invitation to chaos. Ondo State, one of the 36 States of the Federation, is set for another gubernatorial election. Other things being equal, according to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the election will be held on October 10, 2020 Against the foregoing, all the registered political parties in the country interested in participating in the election have begun to shop for who will be the candidates of their parties in the election through primary election, consensus or adoption, as the case may be. The ruling party in the state, All Progressives Congress (APC), is no exception to the rule. At the last count, 12 aspirants including the incumbent Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, are jostling to fly the party’s flag in the main election. To pick one of the aspirants, who have all been screened and cleared to participate, the party’s caretaker National Working Committee(NWC) led by Mai Mala Buni, Yobe State Governor, has slated July 20for the primary election. As it stands, the Caretaker/ Extra-ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, has adopted an indirect mode of primary in the state, a decision that has been rejected by eleven out of the twelve governorship aspirants. Consequent upon the above, the APC NWC has appointed Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, to superintend over the Ondo State APC primary election. Olorogun Emerhor has also been appointed as secretary of the Ondo APC primary election committee. Other members include Alwan Hassan, Samuel Sambo, Binta Salihu, Emma Andy, Adebayo Adelabu, Abdullahi Aliyu and Margaret Igwe. A nine-member primary election appeal committee to be chaired by Chris Ibe, was also named in the statement issued by the APC deputy national. Indeed, the APC could not have chosen a better-committed party man to execute the onerous responsibility than Governor Bello, who is now on the first lap of his second term in office as the chief security officer of the Confluence State. It’s beyond a doubt that Governor Bello-led primary election committee will deliver to the admiration of the APC, stakeholders, aspirants and their legion of supporters. It’s a familiar terrain to him because aside being an administrator, he is one man who wants the APC to be formidable, strong, united and the party to beat in all elections in the country. His unalloyed commitment to the party, its leadership and hierarchy possibly explain the reason for his relentless shuttle diplomacy, trying to fix problems within the party while mending broken fences behind the scene. Ordinarily, a man who has won his second term election as Governor has nothing to lose or worry about again. But that’s not the sort of person Governor Bello is. For him, the party remains a family house which must be maintained, renovated when necessary, and kept clean and commodious for the benefit of all. Incidentally, the newresponsibility bestowed on him by the APC NWC is not new to Governor Bello as far as Ondo state politics s concerened. He was there to mobilise support -human and material – for Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in the 2016 governorship election. That was when the APC was still in the opposition. In fact, so concerned was he as a party man that he temporarily relocated to the state, where a number of Kogi indigenes reside because of the proximity between the two states, to galvanize support for the candidate of his party, who eventually went ahead to win the election. Like the impartiality that is expected of him as referee, with the support of other members like Olorogun O’tega Emerhor who will serve as the secretary of the primary election committee, Governor Bello has promised all the aspirants a level playing field, assuring that the election will be conducted in accordance with the provisions and guidelines of the APC Constitution. The Governor cannot afford to fail, as a lot depends on him in the election because the less controversial it is, the better for its credibility and the easier it will be for the party to manage any fall out from the primary election