Elder statesman and President Muhammadu Buhari’s close friend and associate, Malam Ismaila Isa Funtua, is dead. He died yesterday night at the age of 78 after a brief illness. A family source told LEADERSHIP that the late Funtua died of cardiac arrest during a medical checkup at an undisclosed medical facility. The source who did not want his name in print said, after returning from the Mosque, the deceased told members of his family that he had an appointment with his doctor but drove himself to his barber for a haircut first before  going to the hospital. At the time of filing this report, remains of the late Funtua was being dressed at Area 1 mosque preparatory to his burial according to Islamic rites today morning. The late former minister under the Shehu Shagari administration was a media mogul, seasoned administrator, and astute businessman who as a bridge builder stood by his friend and close ally, President Buhari, working in the background to assist the current administration. Until his demise, the Katsina-born newspaper publisher and industrialist was life patron of Newspaper’s Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN) and chairman of Bulet International Construction Company. Reacting to rumours that he was a cabal in the Buhari administration, he once said he was not a member of any cabal but a cabal himself. The late Funtua explained that Nigerians were using the term cabal in a derogatory manner, saying President Muhammadu Buhari was free to have people he trusts around him. “I’m not a member of any cabal, I’m cabal myself. What is cabal? In short I think it means kitchen cabinet, people that you trust. People you believe will not deceive you, that they can do things in the interest of the country”, he stated when he appeared on The Morning Show, a programme on Arise Television in December last year. Isa Funtua started his career in the Katsina Native Authority, where he eventually rose through the ranks working in the defunct North Central State. He later joined the United Textiles Limited in Kaduna as a personnel manager where he displaced great managerial skills. He later became the Federal Minister of Water Resources in the Second Nigerian Republic. As a member of the 1994 Constitutional Conference under General Sani Abacha was listed as a target by the military regime. He then retired into private business where he became a director of several companies. He was the founder of Funtua Textiles Limited and managing director of the Democrat Newspaper. He was also the founder and Chairman of Bulet Construction Company (one of the largest indigenous construction companies in Nigeria), responsible for building several federal buildings.  He Stood By Me Through My Political Journey – PMB Reacting to the development last night, President Buhari said it was with deep sadness that he received news of the passing of his longtime friend and associate, saying stood by him throughout his political journey. In a statement by presidential spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu, the president condoled with family members of the deceased, government and the people of Katsina State, and all associates of the former President of NPAN, especially the media industry, on the loss, describing him as “greatly admired and respected’’. President Buhari said the late Funtua’s death had created a huge gap in the media industry. Shehu said, “President Buhari believes the demise of the publisher and businessman has created a huge gap as Malam Funtua consistently stood by him in his political journey. “The President prayed to Allah for repose of Malam Funtua’s soul, and to grant the family strength and fortitude to bear the loss”. Also, in a tweet, an aide of the president, Bashir Ahmad, expressed sadness over the passing of the media mogul. “Inna lillahi wa inna ilaihi raji’un! Just heard about Mallam Ismaila Isa Funtua’s sudden death. This life! May Allah accept his soul, forgive his shortcomings and grant him Jannah al-Firdaus,” Ahmad tweeted. Similarly, the director general of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies, Prof Abubakar O Sulaiman expressed shock and sadness at the tragic news of the death of the former life patron of NPAN. Sulaiman also commiserated with President Buhari, the deceased family, government and people of Katsina State and the country over what he described as irreparable loss, even as he prayed for his soul to rest in perfect peace.