Global pandemic – COVID-19 did not just affect the world’s healthcare systems but ravaged the world economy, as well. Since the 2008 financial crisis, the world’s stock market saw the largest crash at the end of February 2020. The oil price war between Russia and Saudi Arabia along with the global shutdown brought about by the Covid-19 situation, resulted in the world’s stock market experiencing a further lull at the beginning of March 2020.  Now, Google’s stock performing well, but we can’t say that of every company out there. Starting with an overwhelming crash in stocks, under the Dow Jones market index, of 1300 points, the stock markets all over the world were challenged by the same fate. The S&P 500 and NASDAQ Composite joined Dow Jones’s further loss of 700 points by contracting 7.6% and 7.2% respectively.  Alphabet Inc. soaring amidst Covid-19: Google’s parent company’s, best stock performance in the past year was on the 10th of February 2020 recording a market high of 1529.43 points. After peaking, it stooped to 1157.31 points within 25 days. Even though the company had to shed a huge chunk in the controversies, there was at least a 30% gain. Regardless of the market’s volatility in the first half of 2020, the company’s resilience has been exceptional. Google’s stock is performing well due to a remarkable increase in the usage of its cloud services.  Social distancing enabled Google Cloud to flourish. Analyzing the stock’s performance, the experts opine that there still is time to procure Alphabet stocks.  Facebook facing blows: Advertising is the main breadwinner contributing about 98% of Facebook’s revenue.  A cutback in the marketing budgets of investing companies post-shutdown witnessed a big sell-off. In March 2020, high profile stocks were traded for unbelievably discounted prices. In the last three months, the company has fared reasonably on the stock market boards reaching a high of 220.73 points from 159.92 on 16th March.  The management’s strategy to navigate the slump is pursuing brands that typically buy into television advertising. Political interference, controversies, and Covid-19 have put the company in a challenging situation.  Covid-19 impact on other companies AT&T: U.S. media and telecommunication conglomerate missed the mark set by Wall Street, accounting for a loss of revenue estimating close to USD4036.00 million in this quarter. The company foresees an improvement in the share performance since there is a surge in new phone subscribers. Johnson and Johnson: The pharmaceutical multinational organization had a troubled year with legal issues affecting its stock in 2019. In March 2020, after experiencing the lowest drop in the year, the expectation of success with the Coronavirus vaccine took the stocks to bullish sentiment. MTN Nigeria: MTN Nigeria is the biggest a part of the African telecommunication giant, MTN Group. MTN saw the shares price hit a 15-year low which led to the company’s decision of relinquishing its stakes to the local investors.  Overcoming issues with the Nigerian authorities and the impact of the Covid-19 outbreak pushed the company to dispose of its largest division. The move to invest in companies undergoing bearish trend offers remedial action to cope with the economic crisis due to the pandemic raising anticipation among various market speculators. Economic analysis guides stock market investors to cautiously play even though the market trend is growing. Uncertainty and fear seem to be the sentiment among different economic entities.