The governing All Progressives Congress (APC) and the major opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday engaged in a verbal scuffle over allegations of plot to rig the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. The two major political parties accused each other of plotting to rig the forthcoming poll in which Governor Godwin Obaseki is the PDP candidate, while Pastor Osagie IzeIyamu is the APC candidate for the election. PDP fired the first salvo yesterday when it alleged plots by APC to use the trio of Governors Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, Hope Uzodinma of Imo State and Yahaya Bello of Kogi State to derail the governorship election. The national publicity secretary of PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement, claimed that his party and the people of Edo State were already aware that the trio were selected by the APC to lead its campaign so as to “force a combined formula of Kano and Kogi electoral violence as well as Imo state mandate robbery to subvert the will of the people of Edo state in the governorship election.” The opposition party further said it was pathetic that the APC only has a person “who has become a butt of international shame after being seen in a viral video stuffing his robe with gratification, in foreign currency, to serve as chairman of its Edo state governorship campaign council. The statement noted: “It is equally contemptuous that such a person is being deputized by another individual, who has become a metaphor of electoral manipulation, after being so docketed by a judgment of the Supreme Court. “It is also disgusting that a governor who deployed a Police helicopter to scare voters on election day has been mandated to deploy thugs and dangerous weapons through the northern borderlines of Edo State ahead of the election. “Part of APC’s plot is to import election mercenaries as observers to attempt to scare the people of Edo state, suppress them and steal their mandate. “It is however not surprising that such is the drift of the APC campaign, given that it has neither messages nor plans for the people of Edo state, especially, with a candidate like Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who has also been declared by his former APC National  Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, as a person of questionable character, a fake pastor, treasury looter, rusticated student who is only fit for “night meetings” and should never be entrusted with the office of the governor of Edo state. “Whereas our candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki, enjoys the overwhelming support of the Edo people due to his enthusing track record of personal character and performance in office for which even APC leaders have praises for him, the APC candidate has nothing to present to the people. “With its defective nomination process, an ailing campaign council and a dented governorship candidate, it is clear that the APC is not preparing for issue-based and people oriented campaign, but for process manipulation and ballot robbery. “Our party, in the strongest terms, cautions the APC to note that the “Gandollar,” “Supreme Court Governor” and “helicopter shooting” formulas cannot work in this election as the people of Edo state have never been intimidated, suppressed, subjugated or overpowered by external political influences. “The APC should also note that the people of Edo state will spare nothing within the law in firmly resisting any attempt by anybody to import violence or try to manipulate the Edo election in any way,” PDP noted. But hitting back at the PDP, the governing APC knocked the opposition party for questioning the integrity of its national campaign council for the Edo State governorship election, even as it urged the opposition party to concentrate on its “deadbeat campaigns”. The APC further said it was not interested in rolling in the mud with the PDP, adding that it is now obvious that the party is up to its usual, diversionary, baseless and theatrical allegations. The ruling party however added that Edo State was not dubbed the heartbeat of the nation for nothing, insisting that the Edo electorate is sensible, sophisticated and progressive. In a statement by its deputy national publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena, APC said, “We understand the PDP is intimidated by the quality, depth and political sagacity of the APC National Campaign Council deployed by the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee to organise a formidable campaign structure to ensure success of the APC and our candidate, Pastor Osagie IzeIyamu during the election. “The APC has no interest in rolling in the mud with the PDP and engaging them in their senseless and drunken tirade. “The focus of the APC is to display to the Edo electorate our propeople credentials, infrastructure/ development track records, social investments, wealth creation initiatives among others which is being replicated across APC states. “APC is a party that fiercely advocates, practices and defends the principle of ‘One person, one vote’. Come September 19 every valid vote must count. “We urge the PDP to concentrate on their deadbeat and empty campaign instead of the comic it has turned itself to. Edo is proudly an APC state”. Wike Leads Obaseki’s Campaign Meanwhile, PDP has appointed Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike to lead its campaign for the governorship election in Edo State. The party’s national spokesman, Ologbondiyan, who disclosed this on his twitter handled, also revealed that Governor Ahmadu Fintri of Adamawa State will serve as Wike’s deputy for the campaign. Wike’s leadership of the election campaign team comes barely two weeks after he openly disassociated himself from PDP’s reconciliation process which enabled Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, emerge the consensus candidate of the party. PDP Screening Panel Disqualifies Two Ondo Aspirants In a related development, PDP’s screening committee for the Ondo State governorship election has disqualified two aspirants from participating in the party’s primaries scheduled for July 22 this year. The chairman of the screening committee, former speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Yakubu Dogara, who spoke with newsmen after the exercise yesterday evening, refused to divulge the names of the disqualified aspirants. Aspirants screened for the July 22 governorship primaries include Eyitayo Jegede; Sen Boluwaji Kunlere; deputy governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi and Dr. Eddy Olafeso. Others are Ben Banji Okunomo, Bode Ayorinde, Otunba Bamidele Akingboye, Godday Erewa and Sola Ebiseni. However, sources at the party headquarters said one of the disqualified aspirants was faulted by the panel because of inconsistencies on the certificates he tendered before the committee. Speaking however, Dogara stated that the committee analytically looked at all the claims made on all the documents submitted to them. He added that the provisional certificate of clearance has been signed by the committee, stressing that distribution of the certificates to candidates have commenced. The former speaker while noting that two aspirants failed the test noted: “That’s not to say that they have been disqualified because we don’t have the powers to disqualify anybody. There’s still the opportunity of redress at the appeal panel, which will sit on Monday. “So if any of the two candidates that  didn’t pass screening feel that maybe some kind of miscarriage of Justice was done, like we have the opportunity to of appeal in the court, he is entitled to launch that appeal from now onwards”. Dogara stated that the appeal panel is expected to get their report on Monday.