An online broadcast media outfit ILÉ-NLA ARTS Streams, is unveiling a YouTube channel to broadcast contents majorly in the Yoruba language as it marks it’s first day of operations today July 4, 2020 According to the Director of Concepts, Aanuoluwapo OgunAdele, who spoke on behalf of other directors and partners, the online media is designed primarily for the Yoruba speaking populace who have for a long time, been denied access to enriching books and other vital information which exist basically in the English language. “If the Bible can be translated, why not other important fields of activities like the sciences, literature and technology. Government might or might not be able to do it, but private individuals can. We need the likes of Prof. Sophie Oluwole (late) to rise to the occasion” He further called on other stakeholders to see to the localisation of contents in their indigenous languages. Giving an example of China which has grown exponentially because of its use of its indigenous language. ILÉ-NLA ARTS STREAMS broadcast contents range from inspirational and creative contents such as Literatures and Dramas, science, engineering and technology, as well as business books which are written in English but will now have Yoruba translations. The media outfit which would also provide various entrepreneurship packages for youths such as it’s voice bank project which allows ordinary people with unique voices to submit and be auditioned for voice acting roles or book narration, would later in the year also unveil it’s music artists who will uplift the Yoruba culture and language to its finest form. ILÉ-NLÁ ARTS STREAMS YouTube channel wants to bring original contents to the people, particularly the Yoruba speaking groups. We want them to enjoy and learn deeply, things they are not able to learn in the English language. It is our desire to bring to them books from great English authors rendered in Yoruba language. All contents on the channel would help in the task of up building the society.