The minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite, has stated that Ajaokuta Steel Company will create over 10, 000 direct jobs when fully operational. He disclosed this yesterday in his remarks at a reception held at the Kogi State Government House for members of the high powered delegation from the Senate who were on an oversight visit to Ajaokuta Steel Mill and the Itakpe National Iron Ore Mining Company (NIOMCO) in the state. The minister who reiterated the importance attached to Ajaokuta Steel and  Itakpe mining firm by the federal government said: “If Ajaokuta is fixed today, it will offer over 10, 000 employment opportunities directly. That is apart from the employments it will generate indirectly from other associated ventures.” Assuring that everything possible will be done to ensure that Ajaokuta comes on stream soon, Adegbite said it will also activate the downstream subsector, thus bringing about the much needed industrialisation. He said it was about time for the Russians who have undertaken to come and complete Ajaokuta to come and audit the company when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out, adding that they will come as soon as it is safe and international flights are restored to resume work. In his remarks earlier, the Senate leader who led the Senate team, Senator Yahaya Abdullahi, who commended the efforts of the federal government towards reviving Ajaokuta steel, said they were sent to assess the situation on ground. He said “All of us are aware of the efforts being put in place by the federal government to revive Ajaokuta. “Ajaokuta is a place that if visited by anyone, he or she would shed tears, but there is hope now going by what is being done.” Also speaking, the chairman, Senate Committee on Solid Minerals and Metallurgy and immediate past governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Tanko Almakura, expressed the readiness of the National Assembly to cooperate with the execute in making Ajaokuta work. On his part, the Kogi State deputy governor, Edward Onoja, who received the visiting teams on behalf of Governor Yahaya  Bello, said the state is endowed with various solid minerals of which only a little has been tapped, urging willing local and international investors to come to the state and invest in any minerals of their choice. On the Senate delegation was the minority leader, Senator Eyinanya Abaribe, and on the minister’s side was the minister of state, Dr Uchechukwu Ogar and other top ministry officials. 