The State House Clinic has disclosed plans to scale down the number of persons authorised to access medical services at its Asokoro facility located, in Abuja. The permanent secretary, State House, Tijjani Umar, disclosed this yesterday at the opening of a two-day workshop on service improvement in the hospital. According to him,  dwindling resources due to lean budgetary allocation to the facility had made the decision inevitable. Umar noted that the clinic was established to provide healthcare services to the President and Vice President, as well as their families and members of staff working in the Presidential Villa, but now caters for about 32,000 patients, adding that this is not sustainable. He further explained that they were determined to eliminate those he described as “hangers-on” and extend services to only those who are officially entitled to access healthcare servicesin the facility. Umar said that after a meeting of stakeholders it was agreed on the necessity to bring back the clinic to its original status of efficient services to those who are entitled to access the facility. He said that the management would trim the number of unentitled people, adding that unentitled people are bringing constraints to the clinic. Umar noted that the Clinic used to be a yardstick for performance measurement in the medical system and pride of the highly trained and experienced personnel working there. “However, over the recent years, it was observed that services rendered at the clinic to the privileged few, suffered noticeable decline to almost zero service delivery. This resulted to a mockery of the facility and loss of confidence by its customers on its ability to render effective service. “In an effort to upturn this ugly trend and revive its past glory, the State House Management reversed the Medical Centre profile granted the facility, to its original status of Clinic, in order to limit the number of patients it handles and also maintain the original purpose it was created for. “As you are all aware, in order to further improve service delivery the Clinic, an outpatient survey was conducted in October 2019, by the SERVICOM National Office and the State House SERVICOM unit.