Meanwhile, minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika has said all is set for the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja; Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos and Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano are ready for recommencement of domestic flights within the country tomorrow. The minister who stated this on the daily presidential task force briefing yesterday said, while the Lagos and Abuja airports will commence first on Wednesday, Kano airport got ready ahead of time. Assuring Nigerians of the safety of the airport and airplanes of all COVID-19 related issues, the minister said the airplanes cabins are the safest with all passengers obeying the COVID-19 protocols at the airports. The minister also stated that Nigeria was not rushing into reopening of airports as five countries in Africa and over 100 countries across the globe have already started domestic air service. On the preparation on the airplanes, the minister stated that the last row of the aircraft will be free so that persons with symptoms can be evacuated and kept there. Sirika had recently embarked on assessment of the airport, where he said the Nigeria airports were 90 per cent ready to commence operations. He also said the remaining percentage is on the surface cleaning and bags provision which will be perfected as soon as flight resumes. Akeredolu Tests Negative After spending some days in isolation, Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, disclosed yesterday that he has been tested Negative for COVID-19. Akeredolu, in a state wide broadcast, said doctors have confirmed him negative after running the test twice. While urging residents of the state to always take precautions against the dreaded virus, Akeredolu said despite the challenges, the state government will continue to sustain effort to contain the menace. Akeredolu, who maintained that his days in isolation were defining period, noted that the development convinced him further of the right track he had chosen to mobilise the people against the deadly pandemic. The governor stated: “One lesson which ought to be clear to all of us with the recent events is that COVID-19 is real. It is also a resounding message that it is deadly, willing and able to wreak the greatest havoc on individuals and families, indeed our entire society, if permitted”. On the forthcoming governorship election in the state, Akeredolu urged politicians not to be unmindful of the potentials of campaign activities on the ongoing spread of the virus. “Already, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC has discouraged crowd based campaign activities for political parties. It has suggested the use of traditional media and the New Media as safer platforms of engagement”, he added. In the same vein, Governor Akeredolu has appointed Hon Temitayo Oluwatuyi as the new secretary to the state government following the resignation of the former SSG, Hon Ifedayo Abegunde on Monday. The new SSG was, until his elevation, the commissioner for Natural Resources in the state. While saying the former SSG, Abegunde‘s resignation has since been accepted, Akeredolu wished him best of luck in his future endeavours.  