The Chairman Selection Committee of federal government Special Public Works (SPW) initiative in Ekiti State, Mr. Biodun Omoleye has said the 774,000 jobs from the initiative will help to boost the state’s economy and shore up its revenue by close to N1 billion every three months. Omoleye who is also the Chief of Staff to the state Governor spoke yesterday in Ado Ekiti during the inauguration of Ekiti State selection Committee on Extended Special Public Works. According to him, each local government will also earn 60 million naira quarterly when the programme kicks off, adding that no fewer than 16,000 Ekiti indigenes will benefit from the empowerment programme targeted at employing 774,000 jobless youths across the 774 local governments of the country. Omoleye said the initiative was genuinely designed for those who desired the service and not for political patronage or other considerations which it was designed to create a face lift in the lives of the young people in Ekiti State. Maintaining that the programme was designed to tackle poverty and criminality among the youths, Omoleye warned committee members to eschew unwholesome practices while carrying out their duties in the state. Omoleye said the special Public Works programme is designed to provide modest stipends for 774,000 Nigerians who are to be engaged as itinerant workers to undertake public works in their respective communities. He charged the youths, saying “anybody who is not ready to be engaged as unskilled personnel needs not apply for the programme”. According to him, the SPW is intervening in “environmental and sanitation activities, cutting and clearing of road verges, filling of potholes, engaging in traffic control, beautification of public sites and distilling of blocked drains among others”. Omoleye noted that the economic impact of the intervention is better imagined as it will also impact on generation additional income, through multiplier effects to well over 5,000 dependants and indirect beneficiaries. Governor Kayode Fayemi, who was represented by Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, urged the committee members to be fair to all and be ready to work in areas highlighted for the job. The Chairman, Ekiti State Council of Obas, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi, commended the Federal Government for the programme and urged the people to be committed to the job to make it a success.  