The Head of Service of the Federation, (HOS) Dr. Folasade Yemi – Esan has declared that upholding integrity in service is not optional but compulsory for all officers A press statement signed by the Director Information, office of the head of the civil service of the federation, Mrs. Olawunmi Ogunmosunle reveals that the HoS made this declaration during the opening ceremony of the induction workshop for Federal Permanent Secretaries designates, yesterday in Abuja. According to her, Permanent Secretaries who are custodians of public trust need to foster mutual trust and confidence amongst themselves and other critical stakeholders of the public service to address the daunting challenges of national development. “undoubtedly the work is daunting with relentless pressure from our diverse quarters but we must all lead by example upholding the provisions of the extant rules at all times. We must be on the side of truth and be the example we want subordinate officers to emulate” Dr. Yemi-Esan also spoke on the need to elevate the Nigerian public service to world class standard with special emphasis on digital service delivery, innovation, knowledge, value addition, revenue generation, wealth creation and electronic operations driven by ICT processes. She revealed that the Office is working on series of reforms to promote transparency and accountability by leveraging on digitalization and automation. There is also collaboration with stakeholders to develop policy and guidelines on remote working. This, she said is with the aim of turning the challenges posed by COVID -19 to opportunities. Dr. Yemi- Esan mentioned observed weaknesses in the Planning Research and Statistic Departments of all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs); which the Office is working with the Federal Civil Service Commission to strengthen. The number one public servant expressed determined efforts to bring about rapid transformation of the Public Service through charted strategies and many other laudable programmes and activities. To achieve these, Change Management has a cardinal role to play in ensuring a smooth transition from a bureaucratic to an entrepreneurial result oriented and innovative Civil Service. Dr. Yemi –Esan therefore implored the Permanent Secretaries designates to put away self-ambition and desires and work with the mandate of their Ministry of posting to ensure that the present administration deliver on its key priority areas.