A Pro Democratic group in Nigeria “Nigeria Decides For Osinbajo-Almustapha 2023 Group, has advocated for a Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Major Hamza al-Mustapha (rtd) joint ticket for 2023 presidency, President and Vice President respectively to ensure unity and continuity. The Convener, Dr Philemon Ibrahim Gora in a statement said a combination of the duo will end terror and bring more prosperity to Nigerians. The group regretted that the move of supporting Atiku in 2019 had cost the South- East politically, however, said “we are using Osinbajo and al-Mustapha to correct the grave political mistakes in Nigeria by using a professor of law and a sound military intelligent officer” He noted that the Buhari-led administration had performed creditably even though with certain challenges but Osinbajo will ensure stability and development. He said “We have, as a body, painstakingly summarised the political realities and the challenges of leadership after President Buhari. “Like it or not ,there are certain specifics some Nigerians should be in the know. Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will be the finest candidate  embodied with the values of fixing Nigeria back to its journey for greatness  and what we need to know that most Nigerians should be privy too. “We are never afraid to take strong position in solidarity and to campaign for him .Voters want to see personality and for that personality to be consistent across social platforms, there should be a  public appearances of who we are presenting and for campaign messages ,there is a particular narrative that is the BIGGEST TRUTH!!!!”, he said. He added that it is important to discuss what he termed the “Biggest Truth” “from which different branding of the group’s candidate (Osinbajo 2023) is known at the beginning of this campaign under his leadership with over 2 million volunteers. “Our strategic reasoning and proactive possibilities , rather than just responding to mere audience is important i state the BIGGEST TRUTH as the backstory and current position of what Osinbajo represents,” he said 