The return of the former speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is seen by political analysts as a realignment of forces prior to the 2023 elections. JONATHAN NDA- ISAIAH writes William Clay had Nigerian politicians in mind when he said, “This is quite a game, politics. There are no permanent enemies, and no permanent friends, only permanent interests.”  This quote aptly captures Nigerian politicians who have perfected the act of defections to always serve their interest. In other climes like the United States, most politicians are identified based on Republican and Democrat ideologies but in Nigeria, an average politician is driven solely on the need to win the next election and won’t hesitate to switch parties. Ideology would seem matter little or nothing to most of them, pundits aver. These tendencies emerge with every election cycle as party defections become the order of the day with politicians move to parties where their interests will be best protected. Expectedly, the race to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023 has begun in earnest as political realignments are taking shape. One of such moves was the return of former speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara.  to the All Progressive Congress (APC) on Friday . In line with this, he met with President Buhari at the State House, Abuja . He was led to the president’s office by the chairman of APC Caretaker/National Planning Committee and Governor of Yobe state, Mai Mala Buni, who apprised Buhari of the latest development in the ruling party. The former speaker did not speak when requested by State House correspondents, but Buni confirmed that he had become a member of the APC. Recall that Dogara left the APC for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2018. He left in a fanfare with the then president of the Senate, Bukola Saraki. The leadership of the APC then, led by Adams Oshiomole, tried unsuccessfully to make Saraki and Dogara relinquish their seats. Interestingly, with this new defection, Dogara has crossed carpet thrice, jumping from the PDP to APC. His first defection was in 2014 when he, together with other revolting members of the PDP tagged ‘new-PDP’, joined the APC. Dogara with the support of PDP lawmakers in 2015 emerged the speaker of the House of Representatives against the wishes of his party. The same scenario played out in the Senate where Senator Saraki emerged as the Senate president. Their emergence led to a topsy turvy relationship with the executive for four years. But as Dogara’s relationship began to deteriorate with the then Bauchi State governor, Mohammed Abukabar, which some analysts contend was one of the major reasons he left the APC. Consequently, Dogara on September 20, 2018, formally returned to the PDP. Governor Buni who led Dogara to the president said their visit to the president was to brief him on efforts to rebuild the party, confirming that Dogara has become a member of the APC. Noting that there shouldn’t be any need for surprise over Dogara’s return, the APC leader said, “They shouldn’t be surprised because the former speaker is a member of the APC and he is because the reason he left the APC is no more there. Yes, he’s back.” Describing the president’s reaction to Dogara’s defection, Buni noted: “He welcomed him. He’s happy with the development. That’s what he’s looking for. We are rebuilding the party and these are the steps we are taking towards rebuilding the party.” He, however,  assured that his team was prepared to ensure that all those who left the party are allowed to return, even as he further assured returnees of justice and equity. He continues, “We are meeting all our aggrieved members particularly who have interest in coming back to the party. They should feel free to do so. We are assuring them and there is no crime in double assurance. “We will do justice to all our members and that’s what will bring peace and that is what will guarantee peaceful coexistence. That is what will bring the consolidation of the party, the rebuilding of the party. Without doing justice, you cannot achieve that and we are sure of doing justice to all our members.” He further noted that the desire to ensure that members who left return to party goes beyond the politics of 2023 polls, but to make the party outlive the current crop of leaders. He said, “Well, of course, not only 2023 strategy, this party, we are rebuilding the party to outlive all of us. It’s not only about a specific time or period, it is not about election, and it is not about electioneering. It is about building a party.” Meanwhile, reactions have trailed Dogara’s defection with the PDP in the state, saying that it provided shelter for the former speaker and gave him opportunities to nominate commissioners in Bauchi State as a reward for his contributions in the 2019 general elections. The PDP chairman in the state,  Alhaji Hamza Koshe Akuyam, in telephone interview,  told LEADERSHIP that “He (Dogara) has been part of the administration; he nominated commissioners and other political appointees serving in this administration.” Akuyam added that there was no internal political imbroglio that forced Dogara out of the PDP fold, stressing that, “I am not aware of anything like sidelining of Yakubu Dogara.” Akuyam, however, said Dogara remains a card-carrying member of the PDP because he has not officially notified the party about his defection from the party. He further noted that when Dogara dumped APC for PDP in 2018, he published his defection. “We heard it (defection) and we are taking it as one of the stories on the social media; I am not denying nor confirming it. But as a party, we have not received any notice from him. Until he does that, he remains our member. “As soon as we received his notice of leaving, then we will talk. For now, I will not say more than that,” the party chairman said. However, a close associate of Dogara, Salisu Zakari, confirmed that Dogara had been meeting with the APC even though he claimed that his boss had not officially decamped to the APC. “There are moves to get him back to the APC but it has not been wrapped up yet,” he said. Reacting also, the Bauchi State chapter of the APC said it has caught a big fish with Dogara defection into their fold. The APC public relations officer, Adamu Jalla Gamawa, said, “We were in celebration mode. We have caught a big fish out of the stormy water of the PDP administration in Bauchi. The chicken has indeed come back to roost”. He added that Dogara’s return to the party would help the APC regain its lost glory. “We have learnt our lessons and have made the necessary corrections that will make us win future elections in the state,” he added. However, chief of staff to the Bauchi State governor, Dr. Ladan Salihu, said Dogara’s defection to APC may lead to his calamitous political end. Ladan described the former speaker of the House of Representatives as “a circumstantial member” of the PDP. He said political circumstances saw Dogara joining the PDP. Ladan who stated these on his verified twitter handle said Dogara’s defection is a journey to dead end. However Dogara yesterday gave his reason for dumping PDP again. In a letter of resignation addressed to the Bogoro ‘C’ Ward Chairman of the PDP dated July 24, 2020, Hon Dogara alluded to failure or breakdown of governance in his native state of Bauchi under the administration of Governor Bala Mohammed whom he helped install as a governor in the 2019 elections. Dogara who raised questions on issues relating to failure of governance in Bauchi State noted that he cannot successfully ask questions about those issues without being accused of disloyalty if he were to remain in the PDP. He argued that if he abdicates this responsibility of telling the truth to power in Bauchi State, having done same under the administrations of former Governors Isa Yuguda and Mohammed Abubakar he will be the most irresponsible and unprincipled politician in Bauchi State. LEADERSHIP however gathered that the return of Dogara to the APC last weekend was mainly due to 2023 politics. This is against the backdrop that he will fit into the evolving political jigsaw. For some pundits, the ruling APC has two options in 2023. Option one is the zoning of the presidential candidate ticket to the south specifically the south west and politicians from the North are angling  for the vice presidential slot. A party source said, “you all know former governor of Lagos State , Bola Tinubu has not hidden his desire to be president of Nigeria . In the event he gets the ticket, he will want a Northern Christian as his deputy. Dogara fits the bill, he is young, urbane and a former speaker and he still enjoys the loyalty of his colleagues and will appeal to Northern Christians too. However, don’t rule out Plateau governor . You know the most powerful political bloc in the country today is the Nigerian Governors Forum,” the source stated. Political analysts contend that if someone like Tinubu gets the ticket, a Northern Christian would definitely be the vice president. The thinking is that in today’s Nigeria where religious and tribe remains sensitive issues, a Muslim – Muslim ticket would be dead on arrival. For now, the three leading vice presidential candidates for a Tinubu presidency are Dogara , secretary to the government of the federation, Boss Mustapha and Plateau State governor , Simon Lalong. However, another source stated that it would be a fatal mistake for Tinubu to pick Dogara as his running mate on the grounds that the former speaker is a political lightweight in the north. According to the source, “ Dogara can only win elections in Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa federal constituency of Bauchi where he is massively popular. He cannot win a Senate seat, let alone talking  of contesting for the governorship of the state. He is a political lightweight in the North.” According to some other pundits, however, another option open to the APC in 2023 is to jettison zoning. However since North-west has occupied the office through  Buhari for eight years, the ticket will be an open contest for the North-east, North-central, South-east, South-west, South-south zones (even though the zone occupied the position Almost seven years before Buhari took over in 2015.) Besides, the North-east has complained severally of being marginalised in the power game in the country. According to the proponents of this agitation, since Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, the North East has not had the shot of the presidency. In the event it is zoned to the North-east, Senate president, Ahmed Lawan, Dogara and the SGF would certainly be top contenders . Political experts opine that in the coming weeks, more notable politicians will decamp to the ruling APC and some from APC will also decamp to PDP as realignments begin in full force.