Boto General Hospital is in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area of Bauchi State. However, it is a convalescence with very unlikely differences writes HARUNA MOHAMMED The shape of the hospital has been altered drastically 15 years after its inauguration, as patients continue to receive medical attention amidst worn out infrastructure, dirty environment and pungent smell resulting from defecation in the open vicinity at the hospital. LEADERSHIP reports that upon entry into the hospital, the pungent smell is perceived in almost all the wards of the hospital, a situation that worries many patients receiving treatment. Ya’u Adamu, a patient who has been in the hospital for three days captures his disappointment thus: “There are no toilet outlets in the hospital; the former toilets constructed when the hospital was new, are in terrible condition. They have not been fixed yet; it is difficult for you to go to the toilets, and if you manage to go there and come back, you would not be able to eat because the smell would irritate you to a point where one must lose appetite.” He said patients receiving treatment had to sweep their rooms as there were no cleaners to keep the hospital clean. LEADERSHIP reports that the hospital beds, mattresses and bed sheets are home for bedbugs. Patients have to fumigate their beds, untie the bed-sheets and replace them with their own before they could rest in them. Another patient, Hajara Sa’idu, who spoke to LEADERSHIP said, “I have been sleeping on the floor for the past two days that I have been in this hospital. There are no beds. Most of the beds are broken while the available ones don’t have befitting mattresses. Sleeping in the beds will only worsen your condition. “When our relatives visit us, they have to stand or sit on the walk-way because there are no chairs. All the chairs brought to the hospital when it was constructed have broken into pieces. You can see the heap wreckage of broken beds and chairs after the male ward,” said Hajara, gasping with utter disbelief and dissatisfaction. Aliyu Sabo whose son is on admission at the hospital said, dirt littered the environment because the hospital lacks dust bins. “Both patients and authorities of the hospital dump refuse in the open field. This is an act which health workers usually warn us against in our communities, but it is tenable in the hospital where they operate.” When our correspondent confronted a medical officer at the hospital who identified himself as Dr Kamma over the condition of the medical facility, he said “we used to have sanitation after two weeks to help keep the hospital environment clean, as many patients from within and outside Bauchi State troop-in for medical treatment.” Dr Kamma fingered people residing near the hospital as those responsible for breaching basic hygiene etiquettes at the hospital. A nurse at the hospital who pleaded anonymity said, “The hospital has not received attention for renovation from previous governments in the state since it was constructed in 2004 by Ahmed Adamu Mu’azu who hails from the community. “Over the last 15-years, Boto General Hospital has not received any maintenance project from relevant health authorities in the state. For all those years, we have not received supply of a single mattress or pillow or bed; most of the beds and chairs in the hospital have broken down”, he added. Dearth of manpower at the hospital is equally affecting services patients receive. For instance, only two registered midwives labour seven days each week to take 202 deliveries and offer antenatal care (ANC) services for 165 pregnant women from January to June, LEADERSHIP can authoritatively report. Mrs. Ruth Simon, a registered midwife at the hospital, told this medium that the facility has just two professional midwives rendering antenatal care services to pregnant women from conception to delivery. Simon said, “The major challenge of the maternity unit of the hospital is shortage of manpower. We are the only two midwives deployed to Boto General Hospital from the Bauchi State Ministry of Health.” Simon who lamented the condition of the hospital said; “We operate on shifting schedules. One of us will work for one complete week before the other one takes over. We change shift on Saturdays. The midwife who is due to work for a week will come on Saturday to make all the necessary handing over routine.” The midwife who was visibly exhausted while speaking with LEADERSHIP said, “We work 24/7, and each of us who happens to be on duty will be in office throughout the week- morning, evening and night,  for one week.” She recounted that from January to June this year, the hospital registered 202 new deliveries including caesarean surgeries (CS). “In January, we had 43 deliveries, February 29, March 36, April 39, May 31 and 24 deliveries were registered in June,” she disclosed. Although Simon did not mince words regarding the work load on her, what appears exciting to her was that “with regards to fatalities in the shape of maternal and infant mortality, Boto General Hospital has not recorded any casualty figure within the first six months of this year. “Within the first six months of this year, Boto General Hospital registered 16 stillbirths. January saw the highest number of stillbirths in the hospital, as six stillbirths were documented, three stillbirths were recorded in February, March and April while one stillbirth was recorded in May.” While commenting on the turnout of women for weekly antenatal care service she said, “there is good turnout of pregnant women for ANC and labour. “There is good flow of patients. We don’t have problem. “From January to date, we registered 165 women for our weekly ANC. Our ANC comes up every Tuesday because it is market day in the community. People from villages around Boto and neighbouring Plateau State used to come here for ANC”, she added. The midwife said the maternity ward of the hospital has six bed spaces which are “acutely below the required number to accommodate the number of women trooping into the facility for maternity services. “Sometimes we have to reject patients or, when there is space in other wards, send pregnant women there. The room is too small and the number of beds is grossly inadequate,” she complained. LEADERSHIP reports that the general hospital at Boto in Kardam B Ward in Tafawa Balewa LGA, with an approximate 5,000 population also serves neighbouring villages such as Juwa, Zabir, Maijuju, Gora, Murno, Maigemu, Katurje, Sati-Musa Maijuju-Tasha, Rise, Zandi, Zigam, Tile, Gabgel and Lere. Other neighbouring communities from Plateau State such as Fusa, Bulli, Keres, Langai, Kadunu, Doss and Gindiri in Mangu LGA also access health care services at Boto General Hospital. The hospital was constructed in 2004 by the administration of Ahmed Adamu Mu’azu who hails from the village. It was commissioned in 2005 by General Ibrahim Babangida, a former military president. Executive Chairman, Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Rilwanu Mohammed, responding, said efforts were on top gear to renovate and equip most of the health facilities in the state. He said, “As soon as the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, we will consolidate on our plans to renovate and equip all health facilities in the state with basic equipment and consumables, and I want assure you that Boto General Hospital will also be considered.”