The federal government recently announced the deadline for school owners to meet specific guidelines before reopening. In this report, HENRY TYOHEMBA writes on the uncertainties in meeting up with the conditions within the short time frame and unavailability of resources. By July 29th, 2020, the deadline given by the federal government for school owners to switch over to the new set of guidelines to enable safe reopening of schools will elapse. The deadline has given rise to fear over the inability of some schools to meet up with the guidelines, owing to the fact that most private schools cannot afford the measures as a result of economic downturn. Even though, the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), recently maintained that private schools were fully prepared for reopening with strict adherence to safety guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19 within the school environments, investigation show most schools across the country lack the basic requirements given by the government. But with few days remaining, it is not really surprising that most schools are facing battle for survival in the face of the coronavirus crisis, creating fears that a number of smaller independent schools, which are already struggling will not be able to meet up with the deadline, thereby, putting at stake the majority population of Nigerian citizens who attends such schools. In Abuja, a tour to some schools could easily tell that there is still a long way to go to achieve the target within the stipulated time. Our reporter gathered that some schools don’t have enough facilities demanded by the government. There is no doubt that the task of fixing the specific guidelines is daunting to some of these schools, especially on the substandard school operators where thousands of Nigerian population attended. Government maintained that before schools and learning facilities reopen key requirement such as functional School Health programme chaired by a state school health focus officer should be put in place, while a school focal officer should be assigned in every school and schools must put in place systems that ensure safe distancing procedure and alternative learning models for safe distancing. The guideline further proffers diverse alternative learning models tailored to the specific learning context that assures equity in learning, review existing policies, practices, and risk mitigation strategies in the use of schools for other purposes, such as distance learning centers, temporary shelters, isolation, quarantine and treatment centers, markets, voting centers, and others. Schools are also to develop and display simple context-specific reference protocols on day-to-day actions to be operated in each school and conduct risk assessment with a view to understanding the gaps in the system that can increase the risk of transmission and make recommendations for addressing the gaps. Moreover, safety and hygiene in all stages and phases of the school reopening process which promote behaviors that reduce spread, such as school commutes (to and from school travelling), safe distancing, frequent hand washing, and the use of facemasks. Other guiding frameworks include sensitisation, financing, learning, and monitoring procedures. A passionate teacher and education thinker, Collins C. Ezem, in an interview with LEADERSHIP said for many schools, especially the privately owned ones, the guidelines will seem a little far fetched knowing that a lot of private schools before now are not even in standard facilities that guarantee the safety of the learners; “what will the government do with such schools given the short deadline issued out for school reopening? “The above circumstance generates mixed feelings about the deadline being too short and also the unpreparedness of many private schools to cope with the procurement of the necessary gadgets and substances required for the safe opening is schools. Notwithstanding, for a progressive psyche, the date should not be deferred. How long can we continue to wait, knowing that even if the date is postponed or not Nigeria education remains underfunded and precarious as it is right now? “Halting the reopening might unearth more collapse for our education that is already crying for help; many schools are already being converted to poultry, some proprietors are putting their schools up for sale, many online learning schemes that were initiated during the lockdown by some of these schools can no longer continue longer of the cost of internet access that keeps rising and challenging the poor income of many parents, children are tired of staying at home. “The SS3 students have literally lost motivation for reading for the coming examinations as a result of all the back and forth wrapped around the resumption, many teachers have moved into plan B businesses that are not related to education, and this is not good for our society. Some teachers have even given the impression that they might not return to the classroom if the reopening of school is further delayed; parents are psychologically fatigued with parenting and teaching 24/7, the government has been overstretched with consultations here and there.” He stressed that there was the need to remember that quality education can only take place when all the stakeholders collaborate effectively. “At this point, private schools need the support of the government. The government also needs private schools to do their part. Education is never cheap, we should all pay the price and the best time to pay the price is now, no further delay, no postponement of the date, it should be made a priority. Once we get it right at the point of having mutual assistance then we will be on our way to safe reopening of schools on the set date,” he said. Also reacting to the July 29th deadline, chief executive officer (CEO), Advanced Management Academy, Abuja, Peter Oyeneye, said the time limit for COVID-19 guidelines for school resumption had two sides to it. “To the proactive school owners and administrators, it may not be short notice.  These school owners and administrators have been pressing for the reopening of schools for a while now. On the other hand, some may not meet the deadline,” he said. Oyeneye, however, advised that schools which meet the guidelines should be allowed to reopen while others should wait until they satisfy the laid down conditions. He said; “I don’t think there is anything like the best time. All we need is to ensure adequate provisions in respect of COVID-19 protocols and move on with our lives. With adequate monitoring, the government will know after opening the school if the decision is wise or not. Very importantly, let us check and confirm the best practices around the world and apply the necessary adjustment for our use. “Besides this, and in addition to the COVID-19 protocols to be observed, I will like to emphatically advise the government to begin the promotion of the need for the conscious and consistent building of the immunity of the people. This should be the next phase of the fight against the pandemic and it will go a long way to help us even as we observe safety protocols.” Earlier this month, the president of Academic Staff Union Of Universities (ASUU) Prof. Biodum Ogunyemi, urged the government to first of all tell Nigerians who would provide the conditions for the reopening of schools while noting that safety measures for pupils were not yet in place. The ASUU boss went further to say that the federal government should go beyond simply developing guidelines for safe reopening on paper to ensuring that the guidelines are fully implemented for the safety of students from primary to tertiary institutions. Ogunyemi was quoted saying, “We are not against reopening of schools but the government must not just spell out conditions. Government must tell us who will meet those conditions. And even in private schools, the government cannot just leave everything to the proprietors because we are talking of public health issues here. Many of these private schools are just struggling to break even. “When you talk of public health issues, they are not issues that will be left in the hands of individuals who can follow through according to their capacity. There must be a basic minimum in order to ensure and guarantee that we are all safe for our children. Nigeria should not take a gamble with the health of its citizens and that is why we are warning that if they believe that they are convinced, we will hold them to that but let them meet their own conditions,” he stressed. However, the reluctance of the government to give financial support but trust everything in the hands of school owners is creating more fears that the main target of combating COVID-19 may end in vain. 