Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) chairman of the Technical Advisory Group on Book Development (TAG), Prof Charles Aworh has emerged as President-Elect of the International Academy of Food Science and Technology (IAFoST), the Academy Council of the International Union of Food Science and Technology (IUFoST) for Term 2020-2022. In a letter addressed to Aworh by the Executive Director of IUFoST, Judith Meech on behalf of the Board of Directors, the Union thanked him for his willingness to serve IUFoST and IAFoST in the Academy Council. According to a statement by the Director, Public Affairs, TETFund, Mrs Ngoba Priye Briggs, the Executive Director expressed optimism that with Aworh’s commitment, expertise and fine leadership qualities, the Union looked forward to the continued advancement of the discipline of Food Science and Technology for the betterment of all. The International Academy of Food Science and Technology (IAFoST) is a statutory component of IUFoST that collectively forms a pool of scientific expertise in food science and technology from which IUFoST draws non-aligned expert advice on scientific matters. A Fellow of the International Academy of Food Science and Technology, Prof Aworh is also a recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Nigerian Institute of Food Science & Technology (NIFST). His area of research include post-harvest technology, food processing and biotechnology and he has over 100 scientific publications. Speaking on the emergence of Aworh as President-Elect of the Academy Council, the Executive Secretary of TETFund, Professor Suleiman Elias Bogoro, on behalf of the Board, Management and staff of the Fund congratulated him on his well-deserved election and added that TETFund is proud to be associated with his achievements. Bogoro described Aworh as an intellectual who has contributed immensely to the academic and overall development of the country and expressed confidence that he would bring his wealth of experience in Food Science and Technology to bear at the Academy for further global development. In recognition of his outstanding contributions to academics and role in TAG, Aworh was in August 2019 appointed as the Chairman of TETFund’s Technical Advisory Group on Book Development (TAG). He had served as Convener of TAG for years and played a very key role in the publication of several tertiary education textbooks sponsored by the Fund. 