The Act for Positive Transformation Initiative, a Civil Society Organisation (CSO) has urged the National Assembly to immediately stop the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) from all forms of procurements. The head, Directorate of Research, Strategy and Programs of the organisation, Mr Kolawole Johnson, in a letter addressed to the leadership of both chambers, said that the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the NDDC was abusing all relevant laws. According to the letter titled ‘Save the NDDC Now,’ Kolawole said that the IMC was paying ridiculous allowances to themselves and other members of staff running into hundreds of millions. “The National Assembly should direct the commission to stop all forms of procurement and all forms of payment from the commission’s account. “The Parliament should also direct the commission to stop payments of all forms of allowances as this has been grossly abused and should only be allowed to pay salaries only. “Example is the payment of special imprest unknown to law; one of such was paid to Mr Charles Odili, a Director in the commission, on the 30th of April, 2020 at about 12:56pm. “A sum of N10 million was paid into his private account with UBA as special imprest,” he said. Kolawole said that Prof. Daniel Pondei who is the chairman of the IMC routed one of his illegal monthly allowances of N51.6 million through the bank account of a staff named Oweife Justina with employee ID no 94. According to him, this N51.6 million is for Imprest on Personal Security and Project Monitoring for the IMC Chairman. He said that Dr Cairo Ojugboh, a member of the IMC also collected N18 million for same purpose through a Bank account belonging to a staff Eno Ukpe with employee ID no 509. According to him, members of the IMC also receive N10 million monthly for hosting visitors and these payments are not connected to the money provided in the budget for project monitoring. Kolawole said that Pondei paid himself and received foreign scholarship payments into his private UBA account no 1002290165 on April 17, 2020 at about 16:50gmt. “Same for Dr Cairo Ojugboh who also received millions into his private account no 1002428409 around 16:24GMT being payment for 2020 Post graduate scholarship for himself. “Several staff, especially those who had allegedly conspired with the present management to squander the commission’s fund, also received millions into their private accounts for same 2020 post graduate scholarship they never attended even during lockdown,” he said. Kolawole said that a proper account must be given for the over N80 billion squandered by the commission between January and May, 2020. He said that the National Assembly must strive to save the commission from the monster of corruption through the ongoing probe. He said that students abroad under the commission’s scholarship were currently stranded in different countries. According to him, these students are facing untold hardship and the IMC are busy paying themselves money due to students. He reiterated the call for a live telecast of the public hearing of the N40 billion allegedly misappropriated by NDDC saying that SCOs awaits invitation to attend the public hearing. 