Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Farouq, has received applause for her supervision and transparent administration of aides to the poorest Nigerians to cushion the effect of the coronavirus. This was contained in a report by the Coalition for Good Governance (CGG), signed by Comrade  Mohammed Abu, after a critical assessment of the various social interventions in the country. The report also lauded the minister’s management of emergency issues and the N-Power scheme which recently began enrolling Batch C. It added that under her supervisory agency, the National Emergency Management Agency and North – East Development Commission is reaching out to Nigerians in need of help with the speed of light. After considering the millions of less-privileged and young Nigerians impacted, the coalition concluded that Hajiya Farouq has lived up to expectations, setting a lofty standard in governance and administration in the country. While calling on the Federal Government and relevant stakeholders to sustain its support for the minister, CGG, in its report, however, urged Nigerians to key into her amiable projects.  Read full report below: Introduction: The outbreak of the novel Coronavirus pandemic across the globe has had some effects on the economies of most countries, Nigeria inclusive. It is against this backdrop that the governments of various countries put in place various measures and interventions to cushion the effect on the lives of their citizens. The Coalition for Good Governance as part of its focus on the socio-economic situation in the country undertook a critical analysis of the various interventions by the federal government through the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. The analysis touched on various sectors of the economy and how well the government responded and the impact of such inventions on the lives of the ordinary citizens who are worse hit by the Coronavirus pandemic.  COVID-19 Crisis Intervention Fund: The federal government established a N500 billion COVID 29 Intervention Fund to upgrade healthcare facilities and fund special public works programmes to generate employment, with the adequate framework for the collection management and reporting of donations into the fund. COVID 19 donor accounts formed part of the existing TSA arrangement in some select commercial banks across the country. Direct food/ cash distribution by FGN: The FGN directed the implementation of direct food/ cash distribution to 2.6 million households comprising the most vulnerable. This vulnerable group comprises those who are resident around the satellite and commuter towns and communities in Lagos and Abuja and earn daily wages for their sustenance, such as artisans and petty traders. The N-Power Scheme: The federal government has commenced the expansion of the N-Power scheme to accommodate more youths in the country. The government consequently introduced the commencement of the Batch-C Stream to accommodate over 500,000 youths across the country. The Role of the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development: The Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development is mandated to carry out the social intervention programmes of the federal government under the auspices of the National Social Investment Programmes. The outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic indeed tasked the ministry to live up to expectations in ensuring that the effect of the coronavirus on the lives of the vulnerable and the poorest of poor are mitigated. Our Assessment: The Coalition for Good Governance after a critical assessment of the various social interventions carried out by the federal ministry of humanitarian affairs, disaster management and social development wishes to state that the ordinary citizens indeed felt the impact of the various interventions of the federal government in the country. The Honorable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq indeed displayed an unalloyed level of commitment to alleviating the plight of the less privileged across the country. Her steadfastness in ensuring a transparent process in the distribution of conditional cash transfer is indeed outstanding and largely responsible for the success of the initiative. The Coalition for Good Governance wishes to state that the Honorable Minister indeed lived up to expectation by providing sound leadership guidance for the implementation of the COVID 19 response plan of the government on the lives of the ordinary citizens in Nigeria. It indeed suffices to state that it wasn’t business as usual as the distribution of monies and food items meant for the vulnerable groups were strictly monitored through an enhanced feedback system the detects any shortcoming on the part of the field officers. The winding down of the Batch A and B streams of the N-Power scheme and the introduction of the Batch C Stream is indeed commendable due to the impact it would have in the lives of over 500,000 youths across the country. This is another testament of the efforts of the Honorable Minister in implementing the social intervention policy of the Muhammadu Buhari administration as a means of cushioning the impact of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. This noble initiative reinforces the commitment of the Muhammadu Buhari administration in touching the lives of the youths and ordinary citizens in numerous ways in line with his electoral promises. The Coalition for Good Governance acknowledges this fact. It reiterates that the various social intervention programmes of the federal government have been a huge success under the supervision of the Honorable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. Conclusion: The Coalition for Good Governance having studied the socio-economic situation in the country with regards to the implementation and the management of issues that affect the less privileged and youths in the country wishes to state that the Honorable Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development has lived up to expectations by setting a lofty standard in governance and administration in the country. Her passion for her job is evident in the giant strides recorded in the federal ministry of humanitarian affairs, disaster management and social development since assumption of office. This is aside the proactive steps taken in disaster management in the country. Recommendations: The Coalition for Good Governance having stated the above wishes to make the following recommendations: That the federal government of Nigeria should as a matter of necessity continue to give the required support to the ministry of humanitarian affairs, disaster management and social development in the implementation of the various social intervention programmes in the country. That all relevant stakeholders should continue to extend their support and understanding to the honourable minster in her quest to promote Human dignity and integration of basic humane benevolence and compassion in the treatment of all Nigerians. That all Nigerians must support the federal government’s efforts towards alleviating the sufferings of the ordinary citizens in the country by showing support to the activities of the ministry of humanitarian affairs, disaster management and social development.