The highest tribute awarded by AGAA , this individual has committed he/herself , career and life to this cause and have been in the forefront of their community/country and Continent developments including physical empowerment of his people. The Lifetime Achievement recipient’s dedication to, and the elevation of their work has made a significant lasting impact on scores of people whom they’ve touched, directly or indirectly. The recipient is someone who is voted for by the general public with written profile accompanied with pictorial evidence to show selfless humanitarian services rendered by the nominee to prove that such an individual is worthy of the recognition. The 2020, 8th edition of African Goodwill Ambassador Awards which is Africa’s Most prestigious humanitarian awards ceremony organized annually by International Goodwill Ambassador Club is officially announcing this year’s LIFE TIME ACHIEVEMENT AWARD recipient, he is known as the man of the people a non tribalistic humanitarian and loved by all. He is PRINCE ARTHUR EZE. Arthur Eze is a Nigerian oil mogul, philanthropist, politician, and the CEO of Atlas Oranto Petroleum, the largest privately held Nigerian exploration and production group. The Igbos call him, ‘ozoigbondu’ of Igboland and he is said to be the 8th wealthiest man in Africa.  Arthur Eze Background. Arthur Eze was born on the 27th of November 1948 in Ukpo village, Dunukofia Local Government Anambra State, Nigeria. He is popularly known as ‘Prince Arthur Eze’ because he is from a royal family, and his elder brother is the traditional ruler (King) of Ukpo Village. Arthur attended St. Augustin Secondary School in Nkwere, Imo State in 1970. After his secondary education, he then went to California State University, Long Beach, California to study mechanical and chemical engineering from 1974 to 1978. He is married and blessed with children. One of his children, Onyeka Eze, is the founder and president of Prince Osisioma Foundation.  Atlas Oranto Petroleum. Atlas Oranto Petroleum was founded by Arthur Eze in 1991. The company currently has 22 oil and gas licenses in 12 jurisdictions across Africa. It has assets in Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, and several Atlas Oranto operated blocks. To date, the company is the largest holder of oil exploration blocks in Africa. Atlas Oranto has regional offices and representatives across core investment locations in West Africa with its technical base located in Lagos, while its headquarters is at Abuja. The chairman chose Abuja as its headquarters so, that the management of the company can have direct access to African policy-makers in the region. The Eze family has ownership of the company stock and all the shareholders are involved in the company’s operation. Triax Airlines. Arthur Eze established Triax airlines in the year 1992, after the deregulation of airlines in Nigeria. The airline’s base was the Enugu Airport. Triax airline had three B727s until it stopped operating in the year 2000.  Arthur Eze Philanthropic Activities. Donation of $12 million for the construction of St. Stephen’s Anglican Deanery and Youth Development Center in Otuoke, Bayelsa State, Nigeria in 2013. Arthur Eze donated $800,000 for the construction of two primary schools in Yirol and Rumbek communities in central South Sudan. 10 million naira donated to the elderly people of the Ukpo community. The Association of People Living with Sickle Cell Disorder (APLSCD), received the sum of N5 million for a standard sickle cell clinic at the Ukpo, Dunukofia Council Area of Anambra State. He was part of those that contributed to the relief needs of the victims of Boko Haram insurgencies, of which he donated the sum of $800,000 at a fundraiser in Abuja. Arthur Eze gave 25 million naira of the total funds raised for the ‘Russia 2018’ FIFA World Cup in 2018. Eze donated $6.3-million to the flood relief efforts in Nigeria in the year 2013. A church in Abagana community benefited from his cheerful giving as he gave them the sum of 20 million naira for musical instruments and renovations in 2015. Arthur singlehandedly built a medical research unit for the Nnamdi Azikiwe University. He modernized the local market near the Ukpo palace and also created road networks linking the Dunukofia clan with neighbouring towns like Abba, Awkuzu, Ifite-Dunu, and Abagana. Arthur constructed the overhead bridge in Ebonyi State with his funds, without asking for government intervention. He is presently providing palliatives to the needy and rendering financial supports to governments of many African countries during this Covid-19 Pandemic. We wish him many more years of good health and deeds. 