Senator Patrick Ayo Akinyelure represents Ondo Central in the Senate. In this interview with RUTH CHOJI, the chairman, Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Complaints, says there is no internal democracy in the ruling APC, hence its current crises in some states, among other issues. Since you took over the Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Complaints, which would you say is the most striking case your committee has handled so far? We have handled many complaints as a committee but the one I am very particular about is the one we recently received, which has to do with depriving Nigerians of their rights. The liquidator of NITEL and Mtel has a lot of claims from UBA, a giant bank in Nigeria.  The management of UBA has since 2008 deliberately failed to honour their agreement with the liquidator of NITEL and Mtel. Over N42bn claims against the bank in order to pay poor Nigerians – people who have worked for the two defunct agencies and contractors who supplied one thing or the other. When a company dies, it is liquidated. The funds recovered are shared to those the company owes. A liquidator was appointed over NITEL and Mtel, which were government-owned entities that were privatised. The assets of the companies were liquidated and money was realised. There are some priority persons that are supposed to be paid. Some of the liquidator’s claims was that the funds was confirmed by the judgment of a Federal High Court in 2017 for the bank to pay N685m out of the computed claims which the bank was said to have admitted to out of the total N42.4bn due as refund of excessive interest charges against Mtel’s operations account with the bank.  This position was further confirmed by an unanimous decision of the Court of Appeal in 2019. Yet the United Bank for Africa deliberately refused to make payment to the liquidator up till now. The bank has also failed to inform them on its position on other accounts of Mtel and NITEL totaling over N42.4bn. I can tell you that, UBA’s deliberate action has made most of the creditors to file cases in different law courts asking the liquidator to pay them, thinking that UBA has paid the liquidator.  I am interested in this complaint because it is like UBA is using their size and might to delay payment until the term of appointment of the liquidator has expired, then nobody will talk about the N42bn again. A human rights lawyer took interest in the case and wrote the Senate. So we have invited UBA’s top management because they recently gave government N5bn to fight COVID-19 and yet they are refusing to pay Nigerians that are dying.  The claimants have appealed to the Senate to investigate and urged UBA to make payment to settle creditors to the liquidator.  Moving away from your committee work, there are fears that the economy is going into recession because of COVID-19. What is your take on this? The budget was predicated on $57 oil benchmark price and it is our main source of revenue. The price of crude oil crashed at the beginning of the pandemic.  Nigeria has no choice but to resort to borrowing. The National Assembly had to also reduce the budget in different places. Peradventure, if price of oil increases and there is a special account where excess crude oil money is kept, it will reduce the chances of borrowing. But for now, we are making just projections. We will pay the loans immediately the economy picks up and price of oil goes up. We cannot let the economy die because there is no money. COVID-19 has affected every nation and Nigeria is not an exception.  As a tax expert, what is your take on the multiple taxations of Nigerians by the government? Most developed economies are sustained through taxations. Nigerians are not ready to take responsibility. Once you are 18 year-old, you are supposed to pay tax to whatever you are doing. Taxation is always the major source of government’s revenue. If everybody is alive to his or her responsibility in his nation, we won’t need to borrow. This oil will finish one day and our only source of revenue will have to be taxation. In America and United Kingdom, their tax system is so effective that it is a major source of revenue. But in this country, many people evade tax, which is a criminal act. Everyone must rise to his responsibility. We must develop a tax regime that will be used to invigorate the economy. There are people with Billions in their lockers at home. So, there is a need for the 9th Assembly to make government look inward instead of depending on oil alone. In Ondo state, we have the largest deposit of bitumen in the world that can be used to tar our roads. There is no state in Nigeria that does not have mineral resources. If we can harness them, we will make more than 300% than the 100% we are making from oil.  Minerals are difficult to steal unlike crude oil. We must encourage investors to invest in solid minerals. The CBN must also support the export and import bank to diversify to exportation of gold and other minerals.  Are you surprised with what is happening in the APC right now? It is good. As a PDP member, I can tell you that there is no internal democracy in APC. A man that served for four years is being accused of fake certificate. The requirement by the Constitution is a minimum of School Certificate. God-fatherism must end for Nigeria to move forward.  Ondo State APC is also having crisis with the incumbent Deputy Governor crossing to the PDP. What is your take on this? The deputy governor has immunity like the governor. If the governor refuses to carry his deputy along, the man has the right to leave the party and join another one. The deputy governor has also resigned from APC and we have accepted him into our party. If my party decides to give him the governorship ticket, I will support him. I want to tell you that Ondo is a PDP state and anybody we field as the candidate will become the next governor. I defeated a sitting governor during the last election. Ondo PDP delivered 35,000 votes against APC at the governorship election. During the senatorial election, I defeated Mimiko as a sitting governor then with four local governments. There was a conspiracy against me then that Akeredolu should not give me ticket because they were roommates in the University. So, Mimiko and the current governor are closed friends. They agreed that he will not probe his government and that I should not be allowed to go to the Senate. But by the grace of God, I defeated them with over 10,000 votes. So, now that Deputy Governor Agboola is with us, if he wins the primaries, we will vote for him as governor. 