The federal government has suspended wood exportation and also banned the exportation of charcoal. Minister of environment, Mohammed Mahmoud disclosed this to State House correspondents after the federal executive council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa. He said the new policies are contained in the New National Forest Policy which was approved yesterday by the council. According to him” New National Forest Policy is a revised policy. The old one was formulated in 2006. Why the new one? We realize that the old one is not catering for the current situation at hand. Forestry is a big sector of the economy. “It provides a lot of employment opportunities, reduces poverty, provides means of livelihood and foreign exchange from export of wood. Without a sustainable forest management, you cannot have all of these benefits. “We also know that right now particularly with the issue of climate change, forest is a big part of climate change mitigation. The more forest we have, the more cover we seek. It means taking out the emission out of our planet and stabilizing the temperature of the planet and the catastrophic effects of climate change. “So, we have revised it and produced a new one. And we believe this will go a long way in regenerating employment which is an issue at hand. Youth and women are the vulnerable in the rural areas usually bear the brunt of this issue of deforestation. “The more we populate our forest with trees, the better for the people not just in the rural areas but even the economy. “Currently, we have suspended export of forest products because we do not have enough control under the old policy. So, we have suspended that. Charcoal exploitation has been banned completely. “These are some of the things that are causing degradation of our land. When you lose forest, it’s not just forest that you are losing, you are also losing the land because the land will be eroded. It may not support agriculture, thereby foodstuff becomes very expensive. Stating that the people around that forest area become unemployed, he added that poverty will increase in the long-run. He said this is a policy that the government feel will go a long way in safeguarding the economy and the planet at the same time, both human capital, and physical environment. According to him, It’s a collaboration between federal government, state government, local government, non-governmental organization, CBOs, the private sector, and international organizations. “This is something that all hands must be on deck.  The tree planting campaign has already started unofficially and we have planted millions of trees. But we will be seeking the President’s indulgence to flag off symbolically, national tree planting this year. We expect in one day everybody will plant at least one tree. National tree planting is supposed to be perpetual. It is no longer yearly or monthly. “This is basically what forest policy that we have just presented is all about. We have it approved today. We thank Mr President and the council for approving the policy,” he added .