In this interview with DUSTAN AGHEDO, the Executive Director, Brain & Body Foundation, Dr. David Ajibade, speaks on the role Vitamin D plays in the prevention of sickle cell disease and Coronavirus and how government, corporate organisations and individuals can provide funding for Vitamin D supplements. There have been recent talks and reconfirmation by scientists about the importance of vitamin D in disease prevention and its role in strengthening the immune system. Can you tell us more about this? Yes, in this COVID-19 period, we are beginning to find out more and more about Vitamin D, not only for its role in the disease, but also for the place it has in human sickness and health as a whole, and quite frankly, I cannot help but marvel at what it can do in a whole host of conditions. For starters, vitamin D is crucial for the protection and health of the upper respiratory system, which, as we all know, is the main route through which Covid-19 invades the body. Secondly, and probably even more important, Vitamin D regulates or modulates the immune system. In other words, it makes sure the immune system responds appropriately to threats, not over aggressively, but appropriately. This is especially important in COVID-19, where we now know that what kills people the most is a hyper- or over-reactivity of the person’s immune system that is responsible for most of the deaths. People with optimum levels of vitamin D almost never die from the disease. How can someone know he or she is vitamin D deficient? What are the symptoms of vitamin D deficiency? There are three answers to that question: By what one does on a day to day basis…that is, their lifestyle, and; by testing and by symptoms. I will start with the third one. Here are eight of the commonest signs and symptoms of vitamin D deficiency: Getting sick or infected often, fatigue and tiredness, feeling tired can have many causes, and vitamin D deficiency may be one of them. Bone and back pain (especially lower back pain), depression, impaired wound healing, bone loss, hair loss, and muscle pain. On testing, the definition of vitamin D deficiency is a level of less than 20ng/ml. Vitamin D insufficiency is a level less than 30ng/ml. Unfortunately, vitamin D tests are not common in Nigeria (I cannot understand why) and where they can be found, it can be quite expensive: N25,000 or more. This is clearly out of the reach of the average Nigerian. How you spend your day, brings me to the first option: you can easily know if you have optimal levels of vitamin D by simply noticing how much time you spend in the sun. Specifically, how much time your skin is exposed and naked to the rays of the sun, with as little clothing on as possible (as much as decency will allow), and without any barriers such as window glass (because those block out the sun rays needed for the production of vitamin D). Who or what type of people are most at risk of vitamin D deficiency? People with dark skin (the darker your skin, the less readily it makes vitamin D); those who do not eat much fish or seafood; the elderly; the overweight and obese; those who stay indoors most of the day and those with chronic diseases like heart disease, cancer, lung disease and diabetes. How does vitamin D deficiency affect the respiratory tract? Vitamin D plays an important role in respiratory health through its effects on lung development and structure, respiratory muscle strength, inflammation and immune response to respiratory pathogens (disease causing agents). We know the foundation has done so much in supporting people with sickle cell disease, autism, and other neurological challenges, but how does vitamin D deficiency affect them, especially those with sickle cell anaemia?
Vitamin D deficiency affects sickle cell disease in multiple ways: We have already pointed out the fact that vitamin D deficiency is commoner in dark skinned people, and sickle cell disease (SCD) is most common (and most severe) among blacks. We also know that vitamin D is not only vital for effective functioning of the cardiovascular, immune, respiratory and gastrointestinal systems. It is also vital for the development and preservation of the brain. It is literally important for the function of practically every cell in your body. What we know is this: individuals with SCD have challenges with the systems mentioned earlier. This is why vitamin D plays such an important role. We began to see remarkable results when we started supplementing children with sickle cell disease vitamin D supplements…absolutely remarkable results. These included fewer crises, better sleep, less chronic pain and fatigue. In general, we saw a significant improvement in overall quality of life. It was reported recently that different people and races naturally have different levels of vitamin D in their system? How does it affect Africans? In a recent survey, they found that those with the darkest skin, had in general, the lowest amounts of vitamin D. Africans, especially dark-skinned Africans from the sub Saharan region (with the exception of South Africans) tend to have low levels of vitamin D if they are not out in the sun regularly. This is especially true of those who work in nice air-conditioned offices with uninterrupted electricity supply. What type of foods can you get vitamin D in? Are they adequate if not what are the alternatives? Vitamin D is present in foods, but what you get from food is certainly not adequate. Here are common foods that contain vitamin D: Fish: Salmon (Salmon is a popular fatty fish and great source of vitamin D), herring and sardines; cod liver oil; canned tuna; egg yolks; mushrooms; and fortified foods (some industrially produced milk, for instance have vitamin D added). In my opinion, the best way for we black people to get adequate levels of Vitamin D is by supplementation. And the research shows that adults should be getting no less than 10,000 IUs a day. The cost of supplements seems to be quite high. What will be your suggestions on how the government or other philanthropic organisations/individuals can support the less privileged to have access to the vitamin D supplement?
Good Question. They will need to be convinced before they can invest in it. This is why we are heavily into research. As we make our findings, we will be more able to convince individuals and organizations with means. In my opinion, we need to shout this from the rooftops. Briefly tell us about your foundation and what it does generally? The Brain and Body Foundation (BBF), is an organization – established in both Nigeria and the USA – focused on educating the Nigerian public on important health issues, providing safe, innovative solutions to health conditions affecting the brain, endocrine (hormones), immune and cardiovascular systems, and on alleviating the suffering of medically fragile children, including those diagnosed with severe brain disorders, genetic disorders, and sickle cell disease. BBF holds a free clinic every Friday during which free consultations and nutraceuticals are provided to children from low income families. The foundation has signed memorandum of understandings (MoUs) with the Federal Ministry of Health and the Nigerian military to address mental health and brain disorders in Nigeria.