The Leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide OYC said that Igbo youths would not hesitate to sanction anyone throwing tantrums, casting aspersions or found to be sowing seeds of discords to create confusion and crisis between the Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu and the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Chinedum Orji. In a statement signed by Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, President General and the Secretary General Mazi Okwu Nnabuike of OYC and made available to Leadership Weekend said that such evil intent would be resisted by Ohanaeze Youths. The group described the harmonious relationship existing between Igbo Governors and the Speakers of Various Houses Of Assembly in the Southeast as Superb and warned against igniting crisis in the zone for political selfish interest. According to the group; “we want to state that any further actions with evil intent capable of causing disaffection and disunity between any Governor and the Speaker of House of Assembly, ignited by any Politician will surely attract sanctions from the entire Igbo youths”. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide must commend and applaud the cooperation and partnership that exists between Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu and Abia Speaker, RT Hon Chinedum Orji”. “The cordial relationship between the Governor and the Speaker has shown in no small measure a hallmark of honour, integrity and mutual respect, which had attracted accelerated development and democratic dividends in Abia State”. “Igbo Youths wish to categorically warn all fifth columnists, throwing tantrums, aspersions and specialized in sowing seeds of discords to create confusion in other to feather their nests, should save their energies, and redirect it  towards issues that enhance peace and promotion  of unity in Igboland. We  will not tolerate any form of adult delinquencies in Igboland”. The group appeal to Governor Okezie ikpeazu and Abia Speaker, Rt Hon Chinedum Orji, to ignore any distraction from fifth Columnists, reaping from drumbeat of war adding that Igbo Youths will continue to support them for a prosperous and United Abia. “Our collective commitment towards advancing peace and harmony in Igboland and respect for decisions of our Political leaders in positions of authority are in line with Igbo norms and  values  as custodians of Igbo Culture and heritage”