The newly-unveiled Dangote “Bag of Goodies 2” Consumer Promo has been described as a vital private sector intervention that would greatly reduce the adverse economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the consumers of Dangote Cement and Nigerians in general. The CEO, Lagos State Lotteries Board, Mr Abiola Bashir Are, who disclosed this at the media unveiling of Dangote Bag of Goodies Promo Season 2 in Lagos,  commended the manufacturing giant for investing in the lives of its consumers. According to him, the decision by the company to make 1,000 consumers millionaires is a testament that the company has the interest of the consumers at heart. He stated, “A million naira is a big deal to most people in Nigeria now. We are here to validate the promo. It was done before during season one and I believe that Dangote is doing it again. “The promo is important especially in this time of global COVID-19 pandemic. Psychologically, these are things that give people hope. We are here to support the promotion. The purpose of the Lagos State Lottery Board is to support businesses, especially when it comes to promotion of products and services. I wish all the prospective winners good luck.” Also speaking at the event, a representative of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC), Mrs Susie Onwuka, said that the company has followed due process in its Season one of the Bag of Goodies Consumer Promotion. “We are here today to ensure that the interests of the consumers are protected. The company has followed due process by registering the promo. We will also ensure that the company is able to deliver what it promised the consumers. So, we thank the company for always investing in the consumers of Dangote Cement. We have always witnessed the previous promo and they have always been carried out according to laid- down rules and regulations,” she said. Deputy director/coordinator, Nigeria Lottery Regulatory Commission, Lagos Zonal Office, Mrs Nkiru Onuzulu, said that the commission holds Dangote Cement in high regard due to its contribution to the general well-being of its consumers. In his speech, the Group managing director, Dangote Cement, Mr Michel Puchercos, described the promo as part of the company’s strategies to continuously reward consumers who are the backbone in the cement business. According to Puchercos, it is to reward valued consumers for their partnership in ensuring that or range of cement products remains today the first choice for construction purposes across the country. He explained that the winning prizes were tailored towards changing the standards of living of consumers who are the end users of the company’s products. “These prizes have great economic values as they can be used to kick off small scale businesses especially in the face of the COVID-19 global pandemic with many families losing their sources of livelihood. “Most importantly, the Dangote “Bag of Goodies 2’ Consumer Promotion is a huge investment aimed at providing new and existing consumers with palliatives as we are creating nine millionaires and a total of 1,000 millionaires in 16 weeks,” he added. Puchercos listed other prizes to include, tricycle, motorcycles, refrigerators, airtime and special combo packs of Dangote Foods Products. Marketing director of Dangote Cement, Mrs Funmi Sanni, said consumers are important and fundamental factor of production without which the company’s ability to remain in business becomes impossible. According to her, to grow our business, we must constantly create value in terms of quality, product, service, competitive pricing and depositing in consumer’s emotional bank accounts in order to become their preferred choice of brand at the point of purchase. 