The service of songs/wake keeping for late Mrs. Grace Okeleke, wife of Head, Public Relations, Globacom, Mr. Andrew Okeleke was held in Lagos. The programme which commenced on Tuesday evening at the Okeleke’s residence in Ikorodu, Lagos was well attended by family members, church leaders, media practitioners and well-wishers. In his sermon titled, “Exit Visa to Eternity,” the Pastor of the Potter’s House Zone 1, Lagos Province 33 of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Ikorodu, Pastor Yemi Ajijo described the late Mrs. Okeleke as an exemplary woman whose works and contributions speaks more volume than it appears seen. Taking the Bible reading from the Book of 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18, Pastor Ajijo consoled the assembly, stressing that death is not the end of anybody but a transition to an endless end. He said, “The Lord wants us to know that we have somewhere that we’re going. Whether you are a child of God or child of the devil, you have a passport that you carry around and that is who you are. The passport identifies you as who you are. “Your exit visa will come, it will be given and when it is given where would you end up? Where is your destination, every man should ponder on this because situation like this brings us to reminiscence of what will happen to us. So every man should lay it in his heart and begin to work his way to the destination that they want. “But there is somebody who gives that exit visa and nobody can avoid it. Every one of us the day we were born, we had an appointment with death and we don’t know the time, but the one who knows the time knows when to give you the exit visa to go. Death in this message is a visa to an endless end and that endless end is what matters,” the Pastor said. In his tribute, Mr. Andrew Okeleke still grieved, expressed that her exit feels like a stab in his heart, saying that it will take only the grace of God to put him back together again. “She was the rallying point in the family, she was the planner, the builder, the encourager, the organiser. She contributed immensely to who and what I am today and that is why it pains me as her exit has pierced my heart. I love her, but I know God loves her more and at the end I pray we shall be together again.”