The dreaded coronavirus  is gradually impacting negatively the investment returns of the N10.58 trillion pension funds asset, as yield on treasury bills and bonds, which forms the bulk of the asset, is very low, although, experts believe this is just a phase, hoping for a quick recovery as soon as the nation’s economy improves. ZAKA KHALIQ writes. Worldwide, coronavirus has infected over 13.6 million people, with over 643,000 people infected on African soil. Nigeria has had its own share of the virus as more than 34,000 Nigerians are now infected. While government at the federal and state levels were doing their best to curtail the ravaging virus from spreading by enforcing social distancing, washing of hands with soap or sanitizer as well as use of face-mask, the pandemic has created a ripple effect on the nation’s economy, a wound that will take several months, if not years of hardwork, to recover from. Financially, the economy is suffocating companies, most especially, in the private sector, were closing down in droves because they lacked the financial capacity to continue to exist. To this end, several millions of Nigerians were thrown out of job, while the existing ones continue to downsize on a regular basis to cut down operating expenses. Investment climate is not anything better, with return on investment abysmally low. Sectors that rely more on investment inflows were the most affected, a development that is gradually taking a toll on the investment returns on the N10.58trillion pension fund asset. Yield on treasury bills and bonds have gone down in recent months, especially, since the invasion of the pandemic in the country, while there is currently a downturn in  investment of pension assets in capital market . Even though the computation of the New Pension scheme, which means there must be contribution into the Retirement Savings Accounts(RSAs) of workers on a monthly basis, somehow shows that the asset will continue to grow, however,  the low Return On Investment(RoI), coupled with contributions that will no longer come from dead companies who were previously contributing Pension for their workers, as well as the increased application for 25 per cent of pension contributions by the disengaged  workers, according to experts, will lower the rate of growth on the entire pension funds.  Experts’  Reactions The Head, Corporate Communications, the National Pension Commission(PenCom), Mr. Peter Aghahowa, said, although the pandemic will affect pension globally, the fund will also bounce back because it is a long term fund. PenCom, he said, has been very careful with regulations on pension fund investments, adding that, loss from the crash in the stock market will be very minimal because most Pension Fund Administrators(PFAs) invest below their limit in the stock market. To him, “the Coronavirus pandemic has affected investment of pension fund generally. The global economy has been hit and Nigeria cannot be an exception. But like we always say that pension fund is a long-term fund, it can go down today and bounce back tomorrow.” The country’s pension industry, he stressed,has worked with very conservative limits in volatile areas of investment because if not guarded, it can cause a total collapse of the fund that has been built. “If you look at the asset distributions, you will find out that the pension fund Administrators invest mostly in Federal Government Securities because it is fixed deposit and it is safer. There can’t be a decline in investment in this area but there can be low yields. In totality, the loss will be minimal because the investment in stock has been minimal, so, there is no need to worry,” he pointed out. Stating that the pandemic has affected the Pension industry just as it has affected other sectors of the economy, he added that, the Pension asset growth could be slower in the next few months or years until the economy recovers fully. According to him, “Yes, the rate of growth of pension asset could be slow because companies who naturally contributed on a monthly basis , are no longer in existence, meaning that, contributions from that end is no more. Even the existing ones are struggling to meet their pension obligations as and when due. Similarly, the Return on Investment of pension asset is low now, but the beauty of this is that pension fund investment is a long term, so, it can recover what it lost when the economy improves.” On investment in federal government securities, such as; bonds and treasury bills, he said, the yield are generally low now because of the current state of, not only Nigerian economy, but the global economy as well, adding that, with time, when the world overcome the virus, normalcy will return and economy will begin to take proper shape. Stating that, the fund is a long term, he said, if analysed over a long period of time, the current scenario might not necessarily have a serious effect on investment returns. He assured contributors that their fund is safe and secured, irrespective of the current economic challenges, while assuring retirees of continuous and constant payment of their pension allowance as and when due. Similarly, in an interview with the Director, Centre for Pension Right Advocacy(CPRA), Mr. Ivor Takor, said, investment is a function of the economic performance and that if the economy is suffering, other areas of the economy, including investment, suffer. He said, the advantage of the ongoing investment returns challenge was that, pension fund is invested in a long term, which means, it will recover its lost ground as soon as the battle against the pandemic is won. “Its just a phase that I expect will not linger for too long. As soon as we were able suppress Covid-19, the nation’s economy will recover as well as the pension sector,” he pointed out. Moreover, the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN)’s directive that banks must have a minimum 65% loan-to-deposit ratio is also affecting investment returns. To this end, Pension funds cannot place money with banks rated below investment grade, meaning that, pension assets are concentrated in 10 or 11 banks, says Wale Okunrinboye, an investment analyst at Sigma Pensions in Lagos. He added that neither can the pension funds invest in banks that do not pay dividends, while investing in foreign assets requires an ‘almost presidential level of approval’ The result of these restrictions, he said, is to “shrink the investment universe” even as the pension industry expands. To Okunrinboye, “The pension commission report shows that about 70 per cent of pension fund assets were invested in government securities. The value of investments in domestic equities fell nine per cent quarter-on-quarter as stock market prices dropped.” “Nigerian banks, over the last few years, have left their primary role of financial intermediation and focused on just investing deposits in government securities rather than bridging deficits in the economy,” said Oluwasegun Akinwale, an investment analyst in Lagos. The fixed-income bolthole, he said, has become less attractive as government bond yields have declined, noting that, the broad-based depression in fixed income yields will further expose the impact of the lower margins on new loans.  Pfas Explore Bank Placement For Increased Investment Returns The Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) have taken succour in bank placement investment window due to the sharp drop in investment returns from treasury bills and federal government bonds, even as the pension assets soared to N10.58 trillion in April 2020. Data obtained from the National Pension Commission (PenCom) revealed that there has being steady rise in investment in bank placement by pension operators as against the drops in treasury bills and bonds. PenCom noted that pension operators staked N1.06 trillion in bank placement in January 2020, N1.21 trillion in February; N1.48 trillion in N1.48 trillion in March and N1.52 trillion in April. The operators injected N1.15 trillion in treasury bills in January 2020; N1.37 trillion in February; N1.32 trillion in March and N1.13 trillion in April, while N5.71 trillion in federal government bonds in January, N5.62 trillion in February; N5.61 trillion in March and N5.77 trillion in March. Pension assets stood at N10.43 trillion in January, N10.51 trillion in February, dipped to N10.33 trillion in March and rose to N10.58 trillion.  The Way Forward The goal of any investment is to optimize returns and manage risks. For the PFA’s to redirect its already worrisome trajectory, experts said, more variable investment securities need to be added to the overall portfolio of the industry. With the advantage of long term growth investments that ultimately stabilize the volatility in security prices, the long term outlook of the industry will have a better chance than the direction it is currently heading to. Meanwhile, the Acting Director-General, PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, said, the pension industry is one of the fastest growing industries in the country with the support of the organised private sector and labour. This growth, she said, justifies PenCom’s emphasis on the safety of pension funds as the bedrock of sustaining the CPS, assuring all stakeholders that the pension reform remains steadily on course. ‘These modest milestones notwithstanding, the Commission and Pension Operators are committed to actualizing the growth potentials of the pension industry’, Dahir-Umar, pointed out.