Former military head of state, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, has praised Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi, a former minister of health, for his contribution to the peace and unity of Nigeria, singling out the role he played in creating global understanding of the crisis in Nigeria during the civil war. Gowon, in a congratulatory letter to Adelusi-Adeluyi marking his attainment of the age of 80, welcomed the philanthropist, pharmacist and founder of Juli Plc, to the club of octogenarians. Reminiscing on when the first met, Gowon said, “You will recall that our paths crossed about 1968 when, as the Secretary General of the Coordinating Secretariat of University Student Unions worldwide (COSEC), based in Holland, you led an 8-member youth delegation to visit me in Dodan Barracks, Lagos.
“That war-time courtesy visit helped to create better global understanding of the crisis in Nigeria. I will always be grateful to you for that service in aid of the unity of our Fatherland. “You have been consistent in your contribution to the peace, unity and progress of Nigeria in every capacity in which you were called upon to serve your nation.”
The former Head of State said, “Please accept our sincere best wishes, though the protocols of social distancing and safe keeping during the current coronavirus pandemic prevent my wife and I from joining you and Julia to celebrate a well-deserved birthday. “But let me be quite upfront with you: it is not a class of tired old people as many persons tend to believe. As you will soon see, it is the decade in which your workload will significantly increase more out of love of country than love of self.” The former head of state added that the occasion “avails me a unique opportunity to use some of your words, not against you, but to return the favor of the kind words you spoke about me when I attained the 80th birthday landmark a few years ago”. “To paraphrase: It is hard to believe that Prince Julius-Adelusi-Adeluyi is already 80, given the spring in your steps. But you have been able to go through life’s experiences and remain well-balanced, largely owing to the robust support you enjoy from your wife Julia, who, like Caesar’s wife, has always been above board in all her transactions.”