The National Assembly has announced the suspension of theimplementation of federal government plans to engage 774,000 Nigerians on public works. In a joint statement issued by the two chambers of the National Assembly, the lawmakers said they were concerned about the proper and effective implementation of the engagement of 774,000 public workers
and wished to restate their commitment to the success of the programme. The decision came a day after the joint Committee on Labour and
Productivity had altercations with the minister of State for Labour and
Productivity, Festus Keyamo over what the Committee had described as none compliance with due process. The National Assembly said for the benefit of doubt, it needed to
remind “members of the public that the Legislature was part of the
conception of the programme, approved it and appropriated funds for
its implementation as part of the COVID 19 response strategy”. “Thus, in line with its constitutional oversight function, it has
mandated its Committees on Labour and Productivity to immediately
invite the Hon. Minister for Labour and Productivity and any other
relevant officials of the Ministry to appear before the joint
committee to brief it on the modality for the implementation of the
engagement of 774,000 persons for public works. “In accordance with the constitutional imperative of oversight, the
Legislature being important stakeholders in the democratic process,
and elected representatives of the people, needed to be appraised of
modalities for implementation for effective feedback to our
constituents and in ensuring that our constituents optimally
participate in and benefit from the process”. “In view of the foregoing, the implementation of the programme shall
be on hold pending proper briefing of the National Assembly by the
Minister of Labour and Productivity. “The National Assembly will ensure transparency of the process just as
done with the National Social Register by the Ministry of Humanitarian
Affairs, Disaster Management and social Developments,” they said. Protesters Attack FMC Lokoja For Rejecting Pregnant Woman Protesters numbering about 15 yesterday attacked the
Federal Medical Centre (FMC) in Lokoja, Kogi State over a pregnant
woman that was denied access to give birth in the hospital. The pregnant woman who was on labour and about to give birth was
rushed to the Federal Medical Centre  , but was out rightly rejected by
the doctors and nurses in the hospital for not having evidence of
convid-19 negative status. An eye witness in the hospital, Mr Mustapha Usaman explained that the husband of the woman , a Nupe by tribe brought his wife  to the hospital around 6 am on Wednesday  but was not allowed to enter the labour room and she eventually gave birth in an open space
on the ground without any assistance  from the nurses and the doctors. Usman said the action of the medical personnel in the hospital might
have angered some relatives of the woman who vented their anger by
attacking the staff of the hospital with cutlasses and broken bottles. He added that for more than two months now the doctors and nurses in
the hospital have not been attending to patients because of outbreak
of convid-19 , a situation he said that many people have died as a
result of other ailments in the state. Effort to speak with the Chief Medical Director Dr Olatunde Alabi
proved abortive as all calls put across to him was not successful. Meanwhile the Kogi State government through the commissioner for
Information, Mr Kingsley Fanwo  has  urged  the people of the state to
remain calm as government will ensure maintenance of law and order. Fanwo charged the medical authorities in the state  to remain
committed to their medical profession and responsibilities, assuring
that government will protect them in order to give them the confidence
to deliver. “Healthcare management must never be politicized. Government will
carry out further investigations to ascertain the remote causes of the
breach of peace by the protesters and also address their fears,” he
assured.