The National Institute of Marketing Nigeria (NIMN) has charged new marketing professionals inducted into the institute to conduct themselves professionally. President and chairman of council of the Institute, Tony Agenmonmen who gave the charge during a virtual induction ceremony urged the new Inductees not to conduct themselves in a manner that will call to question their professional competence and character and also, discount the equity of the Institute. He cautioned that there are sanctions for professional misconduct as contained in the professional code of marketing practice. While congratulating the new Inductees on their choice of joining the Institute, he said it will open a new vista of opportunity for them in their quest to attain professional excellence and growth in their career. He said, “As you may be aware, the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN) is the sole marketing professional body in Nigeria with the statutory responsibility for regulating and controlling the practice of the marketing profession in the country. “It houses a very large community of marketing professional in the country. The community boasts of members from different segments of the Nigerian economy with rich background in the different fields of marketing, brand management, trade marketing, sales, advertising, marketing research, customer management, public relations, etc. “So, your membership of the Institute admits you to this community where you can share knowledge and information on contemporary and trending marketing issues. Another benefit of membership is the endorsement of your skills and competence by the Institute. This will give you credibility and visibility in your place of work or business, andamongst your peers because your membership is a statement of the fact that you possess the requisite competence and skills to practice as a marketing professional.” He said the Institute organizes mandatory training, seminars, and conferences, to improve professional competence for members Agenmonmen said one of the responsibilities of marketing is to respond to the dynamics in the operating environment, saying the new technology world offers marketer a new vista of opportunity for young professionals In her address, the guest speaker, Mrs Nsima Ogedi-Alakwe, Marketing Director at Unilever Nig. Plc said the future of intelligent advertising and marketing will require skilled marketing teams to innovate, interpret data, engage with customers and communicate the latest marketing trends in order to develop effective marketing strategies Ogedi-Alakwe who spoke on the topic, ‘Marketing in the Digital Age’ urged marketing professionals to seize the trend in technology to boost their reach and competence. She said trends in future of marketing will include more Automated and Intelligent (AI) advertising driven by data based on consumer experience and touch-points 42 persons were inducted as full members, while 156 persons were inducted as Associate members.