Edo State Commissioner for Education, Barr. Jimoj Ijegbai, has said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Governor Godwin Obaseki would defeat the All Progressives Congress in Owan East local government in the September 19 governorship election. Barr. Ijegbai said the lies being peddled by a former Deputy Whip of the House of Representatives, Hon Pally Iriase, would not sway the people to vote for the opposition APC. Ijegbai who reacted  while responding to allegations by Iriase at a campaign rally said he (Ijegbai) performed below expectations when he served as chairman of Owan East local council. Iriase at the rally said the only achievements of Governor Godwin Obaseki were blocks of toilet and that Ijegbai performed poorly as a council chairman. He told the people that Ijegbai planned to buy votes with N10,000 per voter. According to him, “I extended electricity to this area as a council Chairman. All the developments here were done by me. When I made Ijegabi chairman, I will ask him about things, he will say no money.” But Ijegabi said Iriase has been rejected by the people owing to the defeat he suffered in the 2019 elections when the candidate he sponsored to the House of Assembly failed woefully. He lambasted Iriase for organising a rally without observing COVID-19 protocols and called on the National Centre for Disease Control to immediately quarantine Iriase and other APC chieftains at the rally. “He cannot say that I did badly as a council chairman. I built many schools and emerged the best council Chairman within that period. “The truth is that Iriase is now desperate. He knows the people have rejected him. We defeated him at the last election and all he does now is to lie to the people. Owan East is secured for Obaseki and the PDP. That is the truth. “I also advise Iriase to return the two Hilux vans Owena River Basin supplied to Sabo gida Ora vigilante and Otuo vigilante which he has criminally converted to his personal use and the other he donated to Otuo police Division as personal donation.” 