As the Nigerian stock market performance continued to witness high volatility in the second half of the year, operators have said the outlook for the market would be determined by corporate earnings performance in the first six-month period of the year. Nigerian market has continued to struggle with domestic macroeconomic uncertainties, global decline in crude oil price and trade wars and the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic as the market has lost about 1.3 per cent since the commence of trading for the H2, as at July 22, 2020. The stock market performance in the first half of the year was a tale of two quarters. Notably, the market tumbled by more than 20.0 per cent in first quarter (Q1), 2020 as foreign portfolio investments (FPIs) and local investors flew to safety amid the collapse in oil prices and currency adjustments. However, the stock market recovered by more than half the initial downturn in Q2, spurred by demand from local investors with excess liquidity and few high-yielding investment outlets. For the H1, the All Share Index (ASI), which mirrors the performance of the market in terms of equity price movement closed lower at 24,479.22 points on June 30, 2020, compared to 26,867.79 points at the beginning of the year, thus representing 8.89 percent loss. Similarly, the market capitalisation, which represents the total value of investors’ assets was down by N201 billion to N12.770 trillion on June 30, 2020 from N12.971 trillion at the beginning of the year. Analysts at United Capital Plc, said “Looking ahead, our overall outlook for equities is lukewarm in H2, despite the expansionary monetary policy stance in the global space and the renewed domestic interests pushing stock prices towards pre-pandemic levels. “Although the argument for a continued recovery is increasingly compelling from a technical standpoint, we note that weaker company fundamentals heightened by the COVID-19 pandemic, currency movement risks and capital control at the I &E window, are key downside risks that could curtail further recovery. “As a result, we expect the market to remain highly volatile for the rest of the year and ‘short-term gain’ driven. However, we believe these times provide opportunities for long term investors, as stocks that have stood the test of time are still relatively cheap.” The president of Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe said “The market started the year with the post- election hangover of 2019 but gradually picked up as Companies started posting their Annual results. Unfortunately, the rally was curtailed by the COVID-19 pandemic that eventually led to a lockdown of activities across board. “Interestingly the two month’s lockdown period witnessed unexpected market recovery as the ASI Index which was down about 21 per cent pre-lockdown gained about 12 per cent within that two months. This really is a testimony to the foresight of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and stockbrokers to have digitised their business in preparation for unforeseen events such as this.” He stated further that the market continued to serve the nation even during the lockdown, saying on the fixed income size yields continued to trend downwards due to excess system liquidity and many Corporates such as Dangote Cement and MTN Nigeria Communications took advantage of this to raise cheap capital via Bonds and Commercial Paper issuance despite the pandemic. The CEO, Wyoming Capital and Partners, Mr Tajudeen Olayinka said, “Now that market has had a better understanding of the pandemic, and the fact that everyone has got to live with it, going forward, it is unlikely that market will go through a repeat of the experience we had at the start of the pandemic.” However, he said the market needs to analyse H1 results that are being awaited, to determine the impact of the pandemic on listed companies, before taking further investment decisions or charting a way forward. More importantly, how the various measures put in place by government would impact the economy as a whole. On a balance of probability, we may see a better market in H2, 2020. Also, the MD/CEO, Dynamic Portfolio Limited, Mr Remi Lasaki noted that foreign investors are still contending with scarcity of dollar in their bid to repatriate their money, which is an issue. He said that government should look at velocity of spending. “It has slowed down,” he said. “There is need to address the issue of tax again. You do not tax people who are in dire need of cash flow. People’s ability to spend has been constrained. They are waiting for half year results to see the effects of COVD-19.”