The federal government declared yesterday that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration will not sacrifice its fight against corruption on the altar of party affiliation, position in government or any other consideration. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed who made government’s position known noted that the anti-graft war was aimed at fishing out corrupt elements who have looted the nation dry. He said if the nation’s anti-corruption czar could be investigated, then the fight against corruption was neither waning nor fake.
Speaking during a press conference in Abuja yesterday, the minister revealed that the present administration has recorded over 1,400 convictions, including high profile cases, and recovered funds in excess of N800 billion, besides forfeiture of ill-gotten properties. “Our fight against corruption is blind to party affiliation, position in government and any other consideration. If the nation’s anti-corruption Czar can be investigated, then the fight against corruption cannot be deemed to be fake, neither can it be said to be waning,’’ he said. Noting that the fight against corruption was not about loot recovery or convictions alone, he pointed out that the current administration was putting in place enduring institutional reforms that will deter acts of corruption.” The minister explained that the revelations of the past few weeks, especially the investigation of the head of the nation’s anti-corruption agency, have shown that the Buhari administration was not ready to sweep any allegation of graft under the carpet because there is no sacred cow in the anti-graft war.
“Our fight against corruption is alive and well,” Mohammed said. The minister however flayed the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for accusing the Buhari administration of graft, noting that the party had promoted corruption as a creed when it was the ruling the country. He slammed the opposition for trying to frustrate the probe into the looting at the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), just as he accused the party of embezzling the commission’s funds through dubious jobs. The minister said President Buhari who is the African Union’s Anti-Corruption Champion has an impeccable global reputation and remains the driver of the fight. Mohammed added that no one, not least the “PDP under whose watch Nigeria was looted dry can taint his image or reverse the gains of the fight.”
The minister said who disagrees that the anti-corruption fight is still alive and well was free to dare the present administration.
According to him, unlike the PDP era, the current administration will not cover up for anyone, including the members of the ruling party and persons in government who face corruption allegations. He continued: “In fact, the main opposition PDP has latched onto the developments to call for the resignation of Mr. President, a call that is nothing but infantile!
“Let me state here and now that the fight against corruption, a cardinal programme of this Administration, is alive and well. Here we are talking about the Treasury Single Account (TSA), the Whistleblower Policy, the expansion of the coverage of the Integrated Payroll Personnel and Information System as well as the Government Integrated Management Information System and the Open Government Partnership and Transparency Portal on Financial Transactions, among others.’’ He further noted that there would be no sacred cow at the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) or any other agency as the investigations over allegations of graft continues.
He stated: “However, I wish to state that the allegations of corruption in NDDC, for example, are not new. What is new is the speed and seriousness with which this administration has tackled, and is still tackling, the allegations. “Had such attention been paid to the running of the NDDC by previous Administrations, the Commission would probably have avoided its present predicament. Is it not a sad irony, then, that those under whose watch the alleged freewheeling spending by the Commission started are now the ones accusing those who are cleaning up after them of corruption?’’ The minister who pointed so some measures adopted by the present administration in tackling graft underscored ICPC’s Constituency and Executive Projects Tracking Group, aimed at tracking the performance of publicly-funded projects, and the commission’s escalation of the use of administrative sanctions in the public service by periodically submitting, for sanction, names of public servants who are being prosecuted. “There is also the review of the personnel and capital fund expenditure of MDAs. Therefore, those who are celebrating the so-called waning of the administration’s anti-corruption fight are engaging in wishful thinking, and are not looking at the full ramifications of the fight,’’ he said. I Facilitated $62bn Recovery From Oil Coys –AGF
Meanwhile, the minister of Justice and the Attorney-general of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN), yesterday disclosed that he facilitated the recovery of $62billion arrears from oil companies as part of federal government’s production sharing agreement (PSA). The minister who spoke during a one-day workshop organised by the ministry for judiciary correspondents in Abuja, said since he was re-appointed as AGF in 2019, the ministry has made some landmark achievements in the past one year. In the performance report, Malami said the $62billion recovered was due to the anti-corruption crusade of the present administration.
“Also recovered within the period the sum of $311million from the U.S. and New Jersey, in the third phase pf Abacha loot and another and another $6.3 million Abacha loot from the Republic of Northern Island’’, he noted. Malami said the sums have been paid into the federal government treasury for utility development such as Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Kano-Abuja Expressway and the second Niger Bridge in line with agreement reached with the foreign partners. He further disclosed that $200million was expected from Netherland and Switzerland as part of OPL 245 Malabu Oil, while the sum of N685,784,757 was recovered through the help of whistle blowers within the last one year. According to him, the sum of N500 million was recovered from forfeited vessels, trucks, and barges.
The AGF said a legal framework recently introduced by the ministry has helped to raise stamp duty collection from a mere total of N22 billion over the years to N66 billion within the last six months of the amendment of the Act. Malami also disclosed that some transaction bills by the ministry were before the National Assembly, which when passed into law would stimulate the economy.
He explained the bills, including Electronic Transaction Act, Electronic Evidence Act, Digital Management Act and Electronic Banking Act, would regulate the emerging digital-financial subsector of the economy. He stressed that some of the Acts would provide for National Digital Certification Authority that will regulate issuance and processing of public and private electronic key validations. Malami said, “The expected bill would prepare Nigeria for emerging realities relating to digital cash, bitcom and e-currency’’.
In his opening remarks, the permanent secretary in the Ministry of Justice, Dayo Apata (SAN), said reporting the activities of the judiciary and justice sector in the country was a crucial task. Dayo said that the growing interest by the general public in what the judiciary sector does, particularly in criminal cases, election litigations, fight against corruption, among others, underscores the importance of the media in creating the much-needed awareness that help in shaping public opinion and perception in that direction.