A former governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Blessing Agbomhere, has asked Governor Godwin Obaseki to resign if he could not protect lives and businesses in the state. Agbomhere was reacting to the outcry of Edo billionaire, Captain Hosa Okunbo, that Governor Obaseki has orchestrated attacks on him. He told journalists in Benin City that many political leaders and businessmen in Edo State alike have suffered in the hands of Governor Obaseki since 2016. He stated that it was irresponsible of the Edo Governor to destroy businesses owned by Edo people when he swore to an oath to protect their lives and properties. Agbomhere said a list of those that have either been sent to prison, humiliated or have their property destroyed were countless in Edo State. His words, “I find it betraying that Governor Obaseki finds pleasure in destroying Edo people’s property and businesses at his pleasure. How can a man who swore to build Edo economy be the one destroying businesses and chasing out those that are bringing in various investments to the state. “What is disheartening is that those suffering in the hands of Obaseki were people that helped him to power. Osakpamwan Eriyo and Adams Shaba were out in prison for many months. “Obaseki has betrayed all who helped him to power. He destroyed multi million naira hotel owned by Tony Kabaka. If he meant well for Edo people, and wanted to seize Kabaka’s 3Star Hotel to demonstrate his allodia power as governor he would have seized the building and use it as isolation centre. “I was attacked at the Benin Airport on the state government orders. Alhaji Suleiman Egele of Jattu was declared wanted by Obaseki’s government for 2years. Kola Edokpayi was arraigned and imprisoned on trump-up charges. Obaseki personally supervised attack on Senator Matthew Urhoghide, he stopped Dr. Pius Odubu from getting NDDC job. “He wrote a petition against former State Chairman of Edo PDP and now PDP Vice Chairman, South South, Chief Dan Orbih and asked police to arraign him, and Chief Francis Inegbeneki went submarine to save himself from Obaseki’s capricious tendencies, amongst several others that were harassed. “Chief Joshua Ogene in Okpilla was arrested on trump up charges and many others declared wanted. He went after his benefactor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and now it is Captain Hosa Okunbor, who is a well respected businessman in Nigeria who sponsored his election in 2016. Obaseki’s threat to burn down Hosa’s farm that has employed hundreds of Edo people and feeding thousands of Nigerians and also the attempts to revoke the CofOs of Captain Hosa’s properties in Edo State are being done mala fide against the developmental interest of Edo people. “And these acts are have been committed and are still being committed a man that never contributed anything to the development of the state before he became governor. “I am calling on Godwin Obaseki to immediately resign for the abuse of the Office of the Governor of Edo State and for betraying the Oath of Office of the Governor of the State to protect the lives and property of Edo people. Obaseki is no longer fit to be Edo Governor.” 