The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) has revealed that it successfully resolved 98 per cent service-related complaints received from telecoms consumers within a 15-month period. The complaints spanning January 2019 to April 2020, have been successfully resolved, the NCC report said. Besides this declaration, the commission has reiterated its commitment to ensuring improvement in the Quality of Service (QoS) and Quality of Experience (QoE) for the nation’s over 190 million telecom subscribers, even as the global community grapples with the challenges of containing the spread and management of COVID-19 pandemic. According to the commission, in the period under review, 26,169 complaints were received and managed by the commission to the satisfaction of the overwhelming majority of telecom consumers. Of that number, 25,575, representing 98 percent of the total complaints received were expeditiously resolved. The complaints were received through all the commission’s official channels of communication. These include 24,481 complaints received through Commission’s Contact Centres; 1,007 complaints received through the NCC Consumer Portal; and 296 others received as written complaints submitted at NCC Head Office in Abuja and at the Commission’s five zonal offices in Lagos, Enugu, Port Harcourt, Kano and Ibadan. Complaints also reached the commission through its official email while 366 of the complaints were transmitted to the Commission through its social media handles on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, and the specially-dedicated Twitter handle for consumer issues. Also, 19 complaints were referred to the Commission during the period through the Twitter account of the minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami. According to the executive vice chairman (EVC) of NCC, Prof, Umar Danbatta, “The Commission is pleased to find that consumers are increasingly accessing the numerous complaint channels instituted by the Commission to resolve second level complaints brought to its attention.” 