Blessing Ejika Ubi is a beautiful young lady, who would cause heads to turn, effortlessly; with an infectiously positive attitude, she is a delight to encounter. One would find it hard to believe that, just a few months ago, Blessing was riddled with pungent sores and rotting skin, from head to toe, caused by an untraceable and untreatable skin disease. Science had written it off as an undiagnosable condition; friends spread filthy rumors about her, claiming that she had gotten mixed up with diabolical men; her family had given up, as had she. Her story caused tears to roll down my cheeks, this morning, because, as a medical practitioner, I see hundreds of written off cases like this and I know exactly what patients go through. It’s so pathetic, I can relate. Unable to carry out normal daily tasks by herself or even have healthy relationships with people, Blessing experienced the most isolated moments of her life; the stigma of the repulsive odour and sores caused her to be treated like an outcast. It is safe to say that every door she knocked on, seeking healing, was shut in her face. What can you do if your reality tells you that, as a young Nigerian woman, you must become accustomed to suffering pain, rejection, and isolation for the rest of your life? What can one hold on to, when all hope is gone? When pastors, scientists and every solution under the sun are powerless to help, some would beg for death to take them, but Sister Blessing begged God to preserves her life; just like Job in scriptures, she was helpless but not hopeless. Blessing was at death’s door when she encountered the God of Prophet Jeremiah Omoto Fufeyin, Senior Prophet of Christ Mercyland Deliverance Ministry, during a healing service; and God opened a new door for her, one of supernatural healing! Today, Blessing is completely healed, and cannot contain her joy. She is a new creature in Christ, indeed! God bless Prophet Jeremiah Fufeyin! A man God has used extraordinarily to restore hope to lives across the globe, his compassion for humanity is worth emulating, his philanthropism is phenomenal, his deep dimensions of dream interpretation is divine and ground breaking. It will be forever in history that during the height of the Corona Virus pandemic lockdown, this same Man Of God dished out over a Billion Naira to help humanity…Again, we say, God Bless Jeremiah Omoto Fufeyin. 