The Solid Mineral Development Fund (SMDF) has stated that the federal government could generate N257 billion ($675 million) every year from the Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMI). The programme was approved by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 to foster the integration of artisanal gold mining activities in the country’s legal, economic and institutional framework. This was disclosed in a statement obtained from the office of the executive secretary of the Fund, Hajiya Umar Shinkafi, which outlined some milestones already achieved in line with the mandate of PAGMI. “On a large scale, SMDF estimates that the federal government of Nigeria could realise an annual average of $150 million in taxes, $25 million and $500 million in royalties from the integration of artisanal gold mining activities championed by PAGMI,” the statement said. “PAGMI will also result in the creation of over 500,000 new formalised mining jobs in the gold mining areas of Nigeria, leading to poverty alleviation for more than 2.5 million families.” The statement said the catalyst for the initiative is the provision of access to markets for the artisanal miners through a National Gold Purchase Programme and the deployment of enhanced mining methods at artisanal and small-scale mining sites. It noted that SMDF, using a Special Purpose Vehicle will source, aggregate, process, and refine artisanally mined gold under a National Gold Purchase Programme for supply to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to use as a reserve instrument, adding that the production of the gold bars is the first time artisanally mined gold from Nigeria is refined according to the standards required for the use of gold as a reserve instrument by the CBN. Using data from UN Comtrade, SMDF estimates that in six years, between 2012-2018, 97 tonnes of gold valued at over $3 billion were illegally smuggled out of Nigeria. In addition to the economic sabotage, illegal artisanal mining according to the fund has fuelled instability and lead poisoning incidences across gold mining communities. The Fund equally acknowledged that the success recorded so far is as a result of two years of intense efforts between the Solid Minerals Development Fund, Kebbi and Osun State governments, Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and National Planning under a Steering Committee led by the Chief of Staff to the President. Disclosing that the guidelines for participating small-scale miners, buying center operators and aggregators will soon be released, the statement also noted that in the next couple of weeks, PAGMI will scale up across the entire gold mining belt of the country, and agreements have been reached with Thermofisher and Metler Toledo, leading producers of gold testing and weight equipment to equip up to 50 buying centers. “PAGMI will use better access to market and other incentives aimed at boosting productivity and output to tackle the institutional challenges limiting the integration of artisanal gold mining operators to the formal economy,” the statement read further. 