Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, yesterday urged  Rotary International to help in curtailing the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria by setting up sample collection centres across the country. He said such centres would increase the number of tests, which is a crucial step in the government’s Trace, Test, Isolate and Treat Strategy. The minister made the plea during an audience with the first female governor of Rotary International’s District 9125, Rotn. Jumoke Bamigboye, and her entourage. Mohammed said, “The Rotary Club is known globally for its service to the community and its promotion of world peace. In this regard, the Rotary is more relevant today, in the midst of a raging pandemic, than perhaps at any other time in history. “As at this moment, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected almost 14 million globally and caused over 592,000 deaths. Here in Nigeria, the total number of cases as at this Friday was 34,854 cases with 769 deaths. “I am using this opportunity to appeal to Rotary to leverage on its community engagement strategy to help in mitigating COVID-19’s community spread in Nigeria. “Specifically, the Rotary can help in setting up sample collection centres across the country to increase the number of tests. The minister said the appeal was coming on the heels of Rotary’s great role in the recent eradication of polio in Nigeria. “Working through Rotary Nigeria’s PolioPlus Committee, this respected organisation helped vaccinators to reach the remote areas of the country to ensure that every child received the polio vaccine. The result is what we have today, a polio-free Nigeria. ‘’I have no doubt that Rotary can play a similar role in our efforts to combat COVID-19 in Nigeria and rid the country of the virus. Please note that I am making this appeal without prejudice to whatever Rotary may have done so far to support the current efforts against COVID-19 in Nigeria,” he said. The minister said the Federal Government, through the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, has continued to battle the pandemic. He, however, claimed that the government could not do it alone, hence the need to partner with the private sector and other humanitarian organizations to flatten the curve of COVID-19. He congratulated Rot. Jumoke Bamigboye on her election as the governor of District 9125, which comprises 23 of the country’s 36 states as well as the Federal Capital Territory, saying it’s a huge responsibility and a mark of great honour to have been elected to preside over such a vast territory. On her part, the District Governor commended the minister for driving the public sensitization on Covid-19 safety protocols. She said Nigerians were now gradually imbibing and practising the preventive measures to remain safe. She sought the partnership of the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture to showcase Nigeria’s colourful cultural heritage to Rotary’s visiting foreign dignitaries as well as to utilize the public information organs to sensitize the public on the National Immunization Days for polio and the upsurge in rape cases in Nigeria. 