The Chief Magistrate Court in Iselle-Uku, Delta state on Wednesday, July 29, 2020 ordered that Prince Nonso Nwoko, of Idumuje-Ugboko Kingdom, be remanded in police custody over a murder case. The order from the Chief Magistrate, F. Obonodo also stated that Chetachukwu Okolo, Onyeisi Isuzor, Ifejoku Okey and Prince Obiajulu Richard Nwoko be remanded. In Charge No.MI/24/2020, the accused persons were arraigned on four count charges for the murder of Iloh Kennedy and Cyprian Kumaora in Idumuje-Ugboko sometime in May 2017. According to the Charge Sheet, the accused persons and others now at large within the month of May, 2017, at Idumuje-Ugboko in Iselle -Uku Magisterial District did conspire among yourselves to commit felony to wit : Murder and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 324 of the Criminal Code Law Cap C.21 Vol. 1 Laws of Delta State of Nigeria, 2007″. In Count II, the accused persons were charged of murdering Iloh Kennedy “by hitting him with sticks and other dangerous weapons ” while in Count IV, they were accused of killing Cyprian Kumaora ” by shooting him with gun and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 319(1) of the Criminal Code Law Cap C.21 Vol. 1 Laws of Delta State of Nigeria, 2006″ . It will be recalled that Prince Nonso Nwoko was, on Saturday, July 18, 2020 arrested by the police from the Delta State Police Command, Asaba and interrogated for 10 hours over the murder of Kumaora . The police accused Prince Nwoko of refusing repeatedly to honour their numerous invitations, a reason it gave for storming Prince Nwoko’s palace very early on the day of his arrest. Commenting on the arrest, the Delta State Commissioner of Police, Mr Hafiz Inuwa said, “some suspects have been arrested in connection with a suspected murder case. We went there to arrest him for refusing to honour our invitation. He has since been left to go home after he apologized for not honouring our invitation”. The arraignment of Prince Nwoko and the other accused persons on Wednesday, July 29, 2020 is a turning point in the story of the mayhem and wanton destruction of properties that took place in Idumuje Ugboko between May 18-25, 2017 following the death of the king, His Royal Majesty, Obi Albert Nwoko, and the succession tussle. Some of the accused persons are already facing terrorism charges at a Federal High Court in Abuja.