The chairman of the Senate Committee on Aviation, Sen. Smart Adeyemi, yesterday called for the full enforcement of preventive measures for the COVID-19 for all airline passengers regardless of their social status. Adeyemi, in a letter to the minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, urged him not to spare very important personalities (VIP’s) breaking COVID-19 guidelines at airports, saying no individual should be allowed to jeopardize the health and safety of another. This was against the backdrop of the increasing violation of COVID-19 guidelines at airports by highly placed Nigerians. The letter read in part: “I write to commend you and your ministry on the good works you have done thus far in the preventive and protective measures put in place at all the selected airports already opened for operation. “I must very quickly say that I am impressed by your proactive approach in the face of the Coronavirus pandemic. I will be delighted to see the same strategies implemented at all other airports before they fully commence operations. “At this juncture honourable minister, it has been brought to my attention that some highly-placed individuals who ought to adhere completely to the guidelines put in place by your good office have been found wanting. “It has been reported that these individuals have shown unwillingness to comply with set down rules and guidelines for the safety of all Nigerians. This must not be condoned under any circumstance. “You would agree with me that the Coronavirus pandemic is one we must take seriously particularly at this time. Set down guidelines proffered by the NCDC must be adhered to very strictly.” It said no Nigerian should be allowed to jeopardize the health and safety of others. “The virus is no respecter of status or position. In the face of health issues everyone is equal, and no individual should be allowed to jeopardize the health and safety of another. “In truth, public office holders, and highly-placed individuals should be more concerned about the safety of the people. With position, comes the burden of service. “I, therefore, urge that any Nigerian who deliberately failed to adhere to the measures as directed should not be allowed entry into any Nigerian airport. For at least four months unless the individual decides to travel privately by road,” it added. In a related development, the director-general, media and communication to Adamawa State governor, Alhaji Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, Mr Solomon Kumangar, yesterday said his principal observed all the protocols he was asked to follow recently at Port Harcourt Airport, Rivers State.