A coalition, Arewa Youth For United Nigeria Initiative and the Progressive South-South Youth initiative, have expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari and the GMD of Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Kolo Mele Kyari on the redeployment/reappointment of a true and noble son of South-South, Mr Adokiye Tombomieye as the new Chief Operating Officer (COO) Upstream. Recall that NNPC recently announced new appointments and redeployments of top management-level staff of the corporation as part of ongoing efforts to strengthen and reposition the corporation. The group expressed appreciation through their leaders, Alhaji Issa Mohammed and Barrister Michael Amakri, who represented the president of progressive South-South youth, comrade Choco Sam, currently receiving treatment in hospital. Speaking at a joint Excos meeting held in Kaduna state to discuss modalities on strengthening the peaceful coexistence that has existed between the Southern and Northern youths, they also expressed satisfaction with Buhari and the leadership of NNPC for giving a true son of the soil (River state) a key and sensitive position such as the Chief Operating Officer (COO) Upstream. Amakri who represented the president of Progressive South South Youth said Mr Adokiye who would have been one year in office on Tuesday the 7th July as the GGM Crude has done very well and has not disappointed the trust placed on him both by his boss and his people. According to him, “His loyalty to President Buhari and to NNPC is unquestionably genuine. He is smart, hardworking and incorruptible. Under his watch, the crude oil marketing division has recorded noticeable transformations in both management and sales of various Nigeria crude oil grades via a continuation of transparency and automation of the processes infused by his predecessor and now GMD of the NNPC group, no wonder he got this latest appointment.” The group also wished Mr Adokiye alongside other newly appointed top management members of NNPC well in their new positions and urged them not to relent in their good works, “Hard work and dedication took you to this new position, and the same is what will sustain you there. It should be noted also that Mallam Kyari and his team which Mr Adokiye is part of have led the oil and gas industry to respond positively to covid-19 and went ahead to build isolation centres across the nation and have equipped hospitals as well.” They further stated that Mr Adokiye’s appointment has once again justified the fact that PMB and Mallam Kyari have remained detribalized leaders and men of vision who meant well for Nigeria. 