**Allegations Against Me Laughable – Ex Gov A civil society organisation, Patriots For Peace and Social Development (PPSD) has threatened to sue the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) if it fails to arrest and prosecute former Zamfara State Governor Abdulazeez Yari over allegations of misappropriation and misapplication of over N900Billion belonging to Zamfara State government after seven days. The group stated this in a reminder dated July 8, 2020 and sent to the acting chairman of the Commission Mohammed Umar the PAPS. Recall that they last week petition the EFCC and other anti-graft agencies over the misapplication allegation against the Zamfara State former governor. The reminder letter signed by chairman of PPSD, Dr. Sani Abdulahi Shinkafi, the group stated that the Commission under the suspended EFCC acting chairman, Ibrahim Magu acted as if Yari is above the law and an untouchable. Shinkafi said despite submitting series of petitions to the EFCC on the matter which were received and acknowledged, the Commission has refused to action on them. He added that the former governor has been bragging that no action will be taken by the EFCC on the Petitions. Shinkafi in the letter said, “My Petitions appeared to have been dumped and swept under the carpet. I have concluded that I will give the Commission this week and if nothing is done on this my reminder, I will be left with no option than to file an action at Federal High Court to seek an order of Mandamus to compel the EFCC to properly fulfill their statutory official duties or to correct any abuse of discretion as provided by the EFCC Establishment Act 2002. Reacting however, the former Governor Abdulaziz Abubakar Yari, said the described the allegations levelled against him as laughable. Yari’s media aide, Mayowa Oluwabiyi, said, “We want to ask, how much was the overall allocation that accrued to Zamfara State when Yari held sway as the governor of the state? “We still maintain that we will not join issues with Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi?” he said.