The management of Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has disclosed that it was opened to any form of investigation by the  appropriate agency, saying the management has nothing to hide. Recall that the minister of Labour, Chris Ngige, had sacked the  management of NSITF last week over allegations of financial  infractions and contracts splitting. However, the management said it was in receipt of several   letters by the minister and several petitions written against NSITF by  the minister, and will make all  communications available to the public and relevant authorities. A source close to the organisation had hinted that the minister had  been engaged in a cold war with NSITF hierarchy over some issues that the management felt did not follow due process. He said: “Some of these issues at stake included the minister’s appointment of a board secretary who is not a lawyer, and against the  NSITF Act.’’ One of the executive directors, Jasper Azuatalam, who was affected by  the latest suspension, had also told journalists that the minister was  in breach of the law in announcing the suspension of the directors and  top management of the fund. On brandishing documents, including a memo from the office of the  Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) from May last year, Jasper noted that the minister was in clear breach of the  presidential directives. He quoted a paragraph which stated that: “On no account shall a   minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria unilaterally or  arbitrarily remove a serving chief executive officer without recourse  to the procedure contained in this circular,” stressing that if there  is any allegation of an infraction, the minister should write though the permanent secretary to the governing board that will make a  recommendation to the SGF, which was not done in this instance. He also revealed that the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) had  written to NSITF to begin a procurement audit last Monday and that  this was yet to commence before the purported suspension. That audit,  which was similarly carried out last year, had now been stalled as a  result of the minister’s announcement, Azuatalam stated.