Few months to the much anticipated governorship election in Ondo State, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) on Monday had its primary election. TOPE FAYEHUN dissects the intrigues surrounding the primary election. The incumbent governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, in early hours on Tuesday, secured the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to pursue his second term ambition in office. Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State who chaired the Primary Election Committee for Ondo State, declared Akeredolu winner of the governorship ticket after polling 2,458 votes to beat other aspirants who contested the governorship primaries conducted by the party in Akure, the state capital. But the victory didn’t come easy as some aspirants had kicked against the adoption of indirect mode of primary election. Governor Bello had maintained that the party had adopted indirect primary as the mode of election for Ondo gubernatorial primary election with a total of 3,127 delegates were billed to vote. Aside from Akeredolu, other aspirants in the race include Isaac Kekemeke, Jimi Odimayo, Olusola Oke, Sila Iji, Olayode Adelanmi, Segun Abraham, among others. Nevertheless, Bello who led the electoral panel that conducted the process announced that Chief Olusola Oke came second with 262 votes; while the former chairman of the party in the state, Hon. Isaac Kekemeke came third with 19 votes. According to Bello, Nathaniel Adojutelgan scored four votes; the only female aspirant and a daughter of the first civilian governor of the state, Chief Adekunle Ajasin, Mrs. Jomoke Anifowose polled two votes. Also, Governor Bello informed that Engr. Ife Oyedele got one vote, while Olayide Adelami scored four votes in the primary election. However, with Akeredolu’s emergence as the standard-bearer of the ruling party, APC, the major contest in the October 10 governorship election in Ondo would arguably be between the sitting governor and whoever emerges candidate of the main opposition party (PDP). Already, the PDP has cleared all its governorship aspirants to participate in the party’s primary election scheduled for today (Wednesday). At the primary election held at the International Event Centre (Dome) Igbatoro Road, Akure the state capital, delegates from all the 18 local government areas of the state participated in the indirect primary. The voting which started around 2:00 pm with Akoko North-East local government area came to an end around 8: 45pm and the sorting started immediately. Before the commencement of votes, Governor Bello, who moved around all the accreditation centers for each senatorial district, expressed satisfaction with the electoral process. Accompanied by other committee members, the Kogi governor who inspected the materials and expressed satisfaction with the process, assured all aspirants that a level playing ground has been provided for them to prove their popularity in the contest. However, some aspirants namely Ife Oyedele, Odimayo, Segun Abraham, had stepped down and or withdrawn from the election. Some of them were said to have reached an agreement with Akeredolu and subsequently directed their delegates to vote for the governor. Abraham who announced his withdrawal from the contest said he did that in respect of party supremacy. He said,” This decision was made in support of the candidacy of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, after much consultation across and within party lines. “My belief in a blessed Ondo State remains unshaken, and because of this, I promise to ensure that a conducive environment where genuine and people-centric advice can be provided to the government shall be created, in order to assure the welfare of the people,” he said. In the same vein, Prince Jimi Odimayo said he took that decision to step down for the governor in the spirit of sportsmanship and party supremacy. According to him, “in every contest, a winner must emerge at the end, either fairly or unfairly, justly or unjustly, but like in the Olympics, the joy is in participation and not about winning a medal, at all cost.” He further stated that “After series of meetings and consultations with the top hierarchy of our party at both the national and state levels, fellow contestants, leaders, elders, and other stakeholders, I Prince Okunjimi John Odimayo will not be participating in today’s July 20, 2020, APC Governorship Primary Election, thereby pledging my full support and that of my team and political family members to our governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu to emerge, as the candidate of our party, APC.  “As the youngest, vibrant and most dynamic of the twelve aspirants jostling for the governorship ticket of APC today to contest October 10, 2020, Governorship Election;  I remain a committed and loyal member of APC with members of my campaign council and several thousands of my supporters and admirers across the eighteen local government areas and the 203 wards in the State. “As a stakeholder and loyal party man, I have since directed my loyal delegates in today’s primary election to cast their votes to Governor Akeredolu in my quest to help him win the election and emerged as APC candidate for the general election,” he said. But at a stakeholders meeting on Sunday night, most of the aspirants expressed their disappointment on how the primary was handled by the electoral committee. One of them Hon. Isaacs Kekemeke, in his reaction to the arrangement of Governor Yahaya Bello-led APC Primary Committee, expressed dissatisfaction with the process which he said was distorted with a view to producing a predetermined outcome. Kekemeke alleged that the Yahaya Bello-led Committee was unfair to other aspirants. “For me, this process is unfair. It is aimed at producing a predetermined result. I have lost confidence in the process. It is not about who wins or loses, all I am saying is that those who lose must lose fairly and those who win must win fairly. “A party must not subvert. It’s a process and it must not treat its members as if they needed the party to survive much more than the party needs members to survive. “The party must learn to be fair. A level playing field has not been provided. It doesn’t matter even if I win. This is not the fair thing to do. ““You only called them to a meeting at 11 p.m., and spoke to them as if you were speaking to boys. I am happy that we told Governor Yahaya Bello and his team that we are not boys and we deserve some respect as leaders of this party,” Kekemeke said. While further reacting after the exercise, the pioneer chairman of the party in Ondo State, stated that the process leading to the voting was slanted, skewed, and compromised to produce a predetermined result. According to him, “The advantages and opportunities that incumbency confer were overstretched to constitute the incumbent into both an umpire and a contestant. But then the delegates have spoken clearly and so be it. I wish the winner and our party well. “I am satisfied that the Lekeleke movement, our platform for the campaign, has been widely adjudged, acknowledged, and applauded for running a decent, issue-based, knowledge-driven, strategically unique, and inducement-free campaign locally, nationally and even internationally. We are delighted by that humble contribution to the development of our democracy. “I will however continue to insist that our Party, the APC must be a party for all its members and not just a party for a privileged few in positions of authority.” Also, another aspirant, Chief Olusola Oke, noted that the adoption of the indirect mode of primary for the election was a subversion of the party’s constitution. Oke,  in a statement issued by Rotimi Ogunleye, the Director Media to Olusola Oke said that ” the Campaign Organisation views this development as shocking and a clear departure from the position of the eleven gubernatorial aspirants who expressed their open preference for direct primary in a letter jointly signed by all the gubernatorial aspirants and made available to the National Caretaker Committee of APC in Abuja. “As a campaign organisation and stakeholders in the coming election, we wish to bring to the notice of Governor Yaya Bello and our national leaders that the adoption of Indirect Primary runs contrary to Article 20 of the APC. ” If it runs contrary to any section of our constitution, it is also proper to say that it is a subversion of the constitution of our party. “For the sake of clarity, article 20 (III) of APC constitution stipulates that for indirect primaries meant for the purpose of nominating a candidate for election, it shall be done at a designated venue for that purpose by an Electoral College of delegates democratically elected by members of the party from various wards contained in the particular constituency. However, a permutation on how the candidates stand on the field in each Local Government had predicted Akeredolu’s victory at the primaries. The projection was done by a team of researchers from Credential Pacts. The research indicated that only four aspirants are visible on the field and they are; incumbent Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, Barrister Olusola Oke, Dr. Ife Oyedele and Odimayo in that order. Amongst the category of delegates are the automatic delegates who are former governors, former deputy governors, former speakers and deputy speakers, serving national and state Assembly members. Others are the 17 state working committee members and the 72 extended state executives of the party. This category appears favourably dispensed to the aspiration of the governor even as the majority are key players in the second term project. In particular, 13 of the State Working Committee of the party are for Akeredolu just as the executive committees of each of the local government areas were put in place by either a commissioner, special adviser or other interests sympathetic to the governor. Still, despite hue and cry by the aspirants who lost, Governor  Akeredolu, in his acceptance speech  said the process of reconciliation with commencing immediately in order for APC to retain the control of the state. Akeredolu who appealed to other aspirants who lost in the primary to join him in developing the state, thanked all the national leaders of the party including President Muhammadu Buhari and Bola Ahmed Tinubu. He said, “History is made not because of my victory at the just concluded primary of our great party. In unpretentious terms, the strong will, dedication, perseverance as well as the palpable resolve of all-party men and women at this very event present a historic moment to behold. “While I consider this evening reflective of our collective desire to sustain our party in Government, our expressed direction, the exceptional comportment on the part of our delegates and the seeming show of love for one another has thrown further challenges upon me as your leader and governor. “Most profoundly, I salute the courage of my brother aspirants. They have enriched the contest, no doubt. I must say that I am particularly enamored by the determination and the industry we all put into this endeavor. “All the same, the campaigns preceding this day have been noticeably fraught with mixed feelings. Relationships in some cases may have been bruised and interests hurt. In other cases, methods deployed to run these campaigns may not have been pleasant. I plead with all of us to leave these in the past and move on. “This is more so that all aspirants, including myself, were either victims or indirectly responsible for such unpleasant circumstances. We must find spaces in our hearts to forgive one another. “I am convinced that our individual pursuits were driven by the altruistic motivation to strengthen our great party and more importantly, take our dear State to loftier heights. “Therefore, I find it delightful to say here and now, that we have all won together. Consider me as the custodian of your vision for the Sunshine State. Together, we shall move the State forward. Under my watch, we shall witness a more robust, reassuring, and rewarding relationship. “As a way of engendering unity of purpose and cohesion amongst all party men and women, in a matter of hours, I shall commence, in an inexorable manner, a process of reconciliation to heal all perceived wounds. We need one another more in the future than now,” he said. Speaking earlier, Akeredolu had told journalists that God would make all plans for him to be victorious at the end of the poll. He said, “I never wanted to be involved in all the complaints because I know that a farmer goes to farm with implements. The farmer only complains when he is not ready. “In the APC, we know those who have been delegates over the years since APC came to be. We all know who the delegates are. I know the God I serve, He will do me well and all plans will fall in place,” he said.