The case of murder of one Solomon Andy by a soldier, Private Abel Ocheme of the 1 Division Nigerian Army Headquarters, Kaduna has been
adjourned till 13th July, 2020 for judgement in the community court of
Justice of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS)
in Abuja. This is pursuant upon a case filed by the solicitor to Mrs Helen
Joshau and the Estate of late Solomon Andy (plaintiffs) Ballason
Gloria Mabeiam Esq of MIVE Legals against the Federal Government of
Nigeria over the unlawful killing of late Solomon Andy by a soldier of
the Nigerian Army on the 9th June, 2017. In the said case with suit No. ECW/CCJ/APP/13/18 filed and received in
February, 2018 by the ECOWAS court, the plaintiffs sought among
others, a declaration that the death of the deceased (Solomon Andy)
was by the act of Private Ocheme Abel, an officer and agent of the
Nigerian Army who is in the employment of Federal Republic of Nigeria
as agent of the Nigerian State is unlawful and a breach of Article 4
of the African Charter on Human and people Rights adopted by the
Federal Republic of Nigeria in 1990. An Order of the Honourable Court awarding $500,000:00 to the
plaintiffs and against the Defendants for the willful, intentional and
perpetual refusal to recognise the inherent right to dignity of the
human person of the deceased Solomon Andy. An Order of the Honourable Court awarding $700,000:00 to the
plaintiffs and against the Defendant as exemplary damages for the
state to refrain its agents, privies and assigns from violating the
rights of law abiding citizens of member States. A mandatory Order of the Honourable court against the Defendants to
release the Corpse of the deceased (Solomon Andy) to the family for
proper burial rites and for the Defendant to finance the burial of the
deceased who died untimely as a result of the reckless actions of
agent of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. When the case came up yesterday for hearing via a virtual sitting, the
panel made up of Judge Gberi-be Quattara (Cote D’ivoir) Judge Silva
Moreira Costa (Cape Verde) and Judge Keukura Bangura (Sierra Leon) adjourned the case for more investigation into the case and final judgement. Speaking to newsmen after the virtual sitting, solicitor to the
plaintiffs, Mabieam Esq expressed optimism that her clients will get
justice if recommendations by the Presidential investigation
panel on the said matter is anything to go by. Meanwhile, she disclosed that the accused, Private Ocheme Abel has
since been dismissed by the Nigerian Army and handed over to the
police for prosecution.