Delta State Government has called on oil producing communities in the state to accept the Federal Government dialogue window over their demands for marginal fields in their domains amongst other concerns. The Deputy Governor, Deacon Kingsley Otuaro spoke to newsmen in Asaba, against the backdrop of insistence by some oil communities among the Urhobo, Isoko, Ijaw and Itsekiri, Ndokwa to go ahead with earlier threats to shutdown oil operations in state following expiration of their ultimatum. According to him, “I informed oil bearing communities penultimate week that the FG has reached out to the Delta State Government which had engaged the FG on several of the issues raised by the communities. “I wish to restates my appeal for peace in waiting for the FG which we are confident is tidying up the table for dialogue. We will reach out to the communities. We all know that the issues can only be resolved on the table of dialogue. “I believe that constructive engagement of the FG in dialogue is preferable to violence which is very likely to put our defenseless people on collision path with security agencies and deplete already achieved gains from dialogue process.” The deputy governor pleaded. He said, “I like to emphasize that the issues of Marginal Oil Fields, Gas Revolution Industrial Park, GRIP and Gbaramatu Deep Sea Port, GDSP, both components of the Escravos Export Processing Zones, EPZ project, Omadino-Escravos and Ogheye-Koko road projects, Modular Floating Dockyard, etc are genuine demands that are of mutual benefit to FG and the communities. We need not taint these demands through violent approach as same can be achieved through the window of dialogue opened by the FG.” It could be recalled that An Urhobo lobby group in the Niger Delta, Campaign for the Economic Survival of Urhobo Nation (CATESUN), and several agitating group have threatened to shut down oil and gas operations in the areas following earlier ultimatum to the Federal Government to address some issues. CATESUN had specifically issued a 14-day ultimatum on the Federal Government to initiate the fresh process of ceding out the 57 marginal oil field and address issues of gross marginalization of oil multinationals and the government against Urhobo people.