The federal government yesterday ratified the air transport agreement between Nigeria and the United States of America. The air transport bilateral agreement is to strengthen economic, social and cultural ties between the two countries. The minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, disclosed this to State House correspondents after a virtual federal executive council meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the presidential villa, yesterday. The information minister read the agreement on behalf of the minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika. He said, “The Aviation minister presented a memo today (yesterday) on the approval for ratification of the air transport agreement between the Federal Government of Nigeria and the United States of America. “The minister sought council’s approval for ratification of the air transport agreement between USA and Nigeria. “You will recall that both United States and Nigeria are parties to the Chicago Convention on the 7th of December, 1994. Article 6 of the convention actually urges parties to sign air services agreement with member states to improve social, political and economic ties. “The US has ratified its own and Mr President and council graciously accepted today to also ratify this agreement. So, today, Mr President signed valid agreement of Air transport service between Nigeria and the US with the attendant benefits for both countries, especially as Nigeria is working towards having its own full national airline. “So, we will now take advantage of this air transport bilateral agreement to strengthen economic, social and cultural ties between the two countries.” During his briefing, the minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo said his ministry presented a memo to Council seeking approval of the President to ratify the Investment Promotion and Protection Agreement. According to him, the agreement was signed in 2016 between Nigeria and Singapore on the one hand, and Nigeria and the Kingdom of Morocco on the other hand. He noted that the Attorney-general of the Federation (AGF) hade in 2016 came up with a new model of Investment Promotion and Protection Agreement and that year Nigeria signed based on that new model between Nigeria and Morocco, and Nigeria and Singapore. The minister added: “The whole idea was to grant more protection to Nigerian investors, when they invest abroad and to give Nigeria more protection when other investors come into Nigeria. “Basically, those were what we were in FEC for and the Council graciously approved that Mr President should ratify and the Attorney-General will present to Mr President for his ratification and the agreement will come into effect thereafter”.