A few weeks back, Nigerians watched and reacted negatively as the Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio, and the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), accused of corruption and gross financial mismanagement to the tune of N4.923 Billion, could provide no document for the National Assembly (NASS) investigative committee on the event. NASS emphasised that the N4.923 Billion paid to the Commission’s staff and contractors for projects supposedly carried out in the Niger-Delta was not just in breach of procurement process and approvals, but had no co-relation to development in the region. Before his recant, Akpabio, in response to the investigative committee, had alleged that the NASS members benefitted from 60 per cent of the contractor payments made, following the committee accusation that he (Akpabio) held most of the contracts accrued since 2011 from the Commission. The scenario above could have easily been detected or avoided if Nigeria had attended to the Federal Audit Service Bill initiated by the 7th National Assembly in 2014. The Bill, revisited by the 8th Assembly in 2018 and transmitted to the Presidency, is yet to get the Executive Government’s assent. The Audit Bill seeks to legalise the constitutional role of the Office of the Auditor-General for the Federation (OAuGF) in ensuring probity and accountability by all public offices and officials in the country, but it is still operating within the Audit Ordinance Act of 1956, thus limiting its role to an advisory one. Besides repealing the archaic 1956 Act, the Bill seeks to: empower the Office of the OAuGF, which has the current role of auditing all public accounts to authorise MDAs’ submission of their financial reports not later than 90 days into the next financial year, and the Presidency, not later than June 30 of the following financial year; to query and direct the withholding of emoluments and allowances due defaulters after the audit submission deadline; to summon defaulters to appear before it to give written or oral evidence, the failure of which without sufficient evidence, it will issue for their arrest and a fine of N500,000. Such corruption allegation, financial mismanagement dramatised weeks back would have been nipped in the bud. Further, the Bill, when passed into law, will grant independency of operation, to a large extent, to the OAuGF by way of addressing its shortage of manpower and financial sufficiency via increased budgetary allocation to carry out its duties. The Bill will improve the OAuGF’s capacity and ability to perform its role as the primary overseer of public revenues and expenditure, and public-sector performance. An effective audit function will provide the Office of the Attorney General and other anti-corruption agencies with the right tools (i.e high-quality audit reports) for them to better carry out their enforcement and prosecutorial function. The Audit Bill is in line with the Open Government Patnership (OGP) principles: transparency, social participation, and accountability. The passage of the Bill will empower the OAuGF to assist the Nigeria OGP Secretariat in achieving its milestones and objectives, specifically in the areas of anti-corruption and accessibility by civil society to public information. In a bid to galvanise action, disillusioned citizens resigned to mocking officials’ antics as a means of therapeutic release, Connected Development (CODE), a civil society organisation known for its public accountability and transparency campaigns, led by its executive director, Hamzat Lawal, raised a petition for citizens’ signature. The petition calls on NASS and Presidency to assent to the Audit Bill, which seeks the review of the budgetary process, the repeal of section 85 (3) constitutional provision, which prohibits the OAuGF to audit statutory corporations and bodies, and subjects same office and its commission to the Freedom of Information Act. CODE, in a collaborative project with OXFAM Novib, is promoting accountability and transparency on the Bill by mobilising Nigerians against corruption. #AuditMoneyTrail creates awareness on the need for President Buhari’s assent to the Federal Audit Service Commission (FASC) Bill that enhances the OAuGF’s capacity to take on its constitutional mandate to ensure transparency and accountability via the probing of public offices management of public accounts. In addition, the CSO further advocates MDAs’ submission of their annual audited financial accounts and the establishment of an audit act in line with international best practices. “The Lima Declaration of Guidelines on Auditing Precepts (adopted at the IX Congress of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTO-SAIs), states that the concept and establishment of audit is inherent in public financial administration as the management of public funds represents a trust. Audit is not an end in itself but an indispensable part of a regulatory system whose aim is to reveal deviations from accepted standards and violations of the principles of legality, efficiency and economy of financial management early enough to make it possible to take corrective action in individual cases, to make those accountable to accept responsibility, to obtain compensation, or to take steps to prevent – or at least render more difficult such breaches,” says the Executive Director, Centre for Social Justice, Eze Onyekpere. “The last set of requirements on the purpose of audit,” he continues, “is generally lacking … This has led to situation of impunity for violations of the laws. Thus, the Nigerian society neither gets guarantees of non-repetition, compensation nor have offenders punished.” A new audit law that strengthens the mandate of the OAuGF, Onyekpere adds, must focus on areas of independence, adequate resourcing, expanded definition of powers, functions and duties. An audit law, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Femi Falana says, will strengthen the OAuGF whose findings are often ignored by all MDAs, the presidency included. “The presidency might have been advised not to sign the Bill by forces of impunity. But having regards to the open declaration of the administration to fight corruption, the Bill ought to be signed by President Buhari if it is presented to the president by the national assembly. More optimistic is Barr Ahmed Raji (SAN), who notes that signing the Bill into law, “is a good development and it will go a long way in assisting to sanitise the public finance sector.  It will also  in a way, discourage corruption in public service. Perhaps the not so cordial relationship between the 8th National Assembly and the Executive might be partly responsible for the refusal of the president to assent. Everything should be done to ensure the Bill becomes law.” According to Olusegun Elemo, executive director of Paradigm Leadership Support Initiative (PLSI), a civic organisation working to promote citizens’ active participation in Nigerian public audit, “Reports by the OAuGF are the main tools by which the National Assembly is to hold those responsible for public expenditure to account. Through high quality, timely and well disseminated audit reports, an effective OAuGF will also lead to better public access to information on the performance of government agencies. The resulting transparency will lend credibility to the financial reports of government, improve stakeholders’ (legislators, CSOs, NGOs, private sector and citizens) perception and confidence in government’s  and MDAs’ public financial management, and provide a credible source of evidence for research, analyses and decision making, advocacy and demand for improved service from government agencies. The Audit Bill, if passed, will improve the perception and credibility of the government by the Nigerian general public, local and international investors, development partners, and substantiate governmental anti-corruption reforms. At present, Nigerians watch events playing out in government with resigned amusement to the fact that, probes or no probes, investigations or not, nothing will come of either action. If the present administration hopes to regain the masses’ trust, the president, as a sign of faith, should fulfil the promise of change it made to them, starting with his assent to the Audit Bill. – Adegoke  wrote from Abuja 