Stakeholders and host communities in the Niger Delta region are at odds over calls for the scrapping of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) following revelations from ongoing probe of alleged financial recklessness involving management of the interventionist agency at the National Assembly. The NDDC, which was established in the year 2000, had been engulfed in crisis following disagreements between the minister of the Niger Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio and the commission’s interim management committee (IMC) on one side and the National Assembly committees on NDDC on the other side. The National Assembly joint committees had initiated a probe on the activities of the commission’s IMC since February 2020 ahead of forensic audit of the commission ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari. The testimonies of those who had appeared before the National Assembly probe panel, including the immediate past acting managing director of the commission, Dr Joi Nunieh, and the Niger Delta minister, Akpabio, had prompted calls for the scrapping of the NDDC. Speaking with LEADERSHIP in Owerri, the programmes director of Development Dynamics, a non-governmental organisation, Dr Jude Ohanele, described the NDDC as a fraudulent organisation and total embarrassment to the people of the region. Ohanele noted that the commission has brought shame and underdevelopment to the people of the region, stating that instead of embarking on projects that would be beneficial to the citizenry, the commission concentrates in reckless spending of the common wealth of the people. He said since the commission is of no use to the people, the best alternative for government is to scrap the commission and channel the resources to other useful ventures. Also speaking, the convener of  Mezie Imo Foundation, Chief Chidi Ibezim, called on the federal government to live up to its responsibilities by putting mechanism in place to checkmate non performing  government establishments. Ibezim noted that a situation where government would entrust huge sums of money in an organization without proper supervision does not augur well for the country. Also speaking with LEADERSHIP in Asaba, an environmental activist, comrade Sheriff Mulade, said although the much needed presence of the NDDC has not been felt in the Niger Delta region, pockets of its infrastructural works are still there in various communities in the region. Malude said, “If you take time to travel round the mandate areas of NDDC you will observe pockets of their infrastructural work in communities, but they are not felt as they should be when compared with the amount of funds allocated in the past years. “The developmental projects and activities by these Commissions are not commensurate with the amount of funds that have been put in the projects. It is like putting in an elephant and harvesting an ant. “If you have such a strong comparison, what will be your evaluation? Is this commission with all due respect to its mandate living up to expectations? I believe you can answer my question because their work speaks for themselves.” In a chat with journalists in Asaba, chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Ambassador Oke Idawene, challenged the traditional and political leaders in the Niger Delta region to rise up and save the NDDC from imminent collapse owing to the rot in the commission. Idawene described the revelations of financial improprieties revealed in the probe of the commission as embarrassing to the people of the Niger Delta region. He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that all those found to have collaborated in the looting of the NDDC funds are made to return such money to government coffers and face justice. The SDP chairman appealed to the Delta State governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa to reconsider the government plans to suspend the payment of the new minimum wage for civil servants grade from 7 to 17 owing to the fall in revenue of the state occasioned by COVID-19. In Port Harcourt, convener of a good governance advocacy group, the Unity House Foundation (UHF), Kingsley Wenenda Wali, however, rejected calls for the scrapping of the NDDC, saying such action will send several Niger Deltans back to the job market and further complicate the unemployment crisis in the region. This is even as he called on the federal government to allow NDDC to be run like the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), where staff are allowed to rise through the ranks to the position of executive directors, while outsiders are appointed as managing directors of the commission. Wali said, “No, you don’t have to scrap NDDC because it has a purpose; that purpose may not have been achieved, but some things have done. Some roads have been done in the region. Some serious projects, schools and all of that have been done, no doubt. “We are not deceived or we are not in any way believing that NDDC has done as it should do. Whatever money that has been put in that place is not commensurate with what is coming out. We should do more and do much better. “I am asking, what happened to people who will lose their jobs when NDDC is scrapped? You throw those Niger Deltans into the job market and complicate the unemployment crisis in the region?” The UHF Convener declared that unfolding the drama in the NDDC has made the interventionist agency become an embarrassment to the people of Niger Delta region. Wali said, “To a large extent, whatever that is happening in the Niger Delta Development Commission is not strange; it is not new. It is a Nigerian thing. Speaking with LEADERSHIP in Yenagoa, an environmentalist and former Secretary of the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), Comrade Morris Alagoa rejected the calls for the scrapping of the NDDC over the ongoing revelations of alleged corrupt practices in the commission. Alagoa said, “The NDDC shouldn’t be scrapped as it may serve the region better if it goes into effective collaboration and development partnership with our state and local governments. “For me, it would be nice if the federal government interventionist agency works more in synergy with the state and local governments and communities in the region rather than going solo. “Going solo has resulted in several abandoned projects littering the landscape and contractors not known.” “Such partnership should clearly spell out the cost of the projects and how much each in the partnership would contribute towards their execution. For instance, if the partnership is with local government, the local government may contribute 10% or 5% offer to total cost. If it is a partnership with state government, the state government should contribute about 20% offer the cost. “That way, things would become clearer, more transparent and development will be achieved. The current system also leads to duplication of projects and waste of scarce resources. Sadly, some of the duplicated projects are abandoned or non-functional”. Also speaking, former leader of Ijaw Youth Council, Chief Preye Agama insisted that the issue of the management of the NDDC should be handled by a Niger Delta youth with proven integrity and supervised by the Attorney General of the Federation. Meanwhile, an anti-corruption group, Human and Environmental Development Agenda, (HEDA Resource Centre), has called on the federal government should take two important steps to ensure a transparent and meaningful probe of the NDDC, the setting up of a public enquiry and the removal of the minister of the Niger-Delta, Senator Godswill Akpabio. HEDA, in a statement signed by its chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju, said the public enquiry should be led by a retired judge and members be drawn from Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and the civil society organisations, among others. The statement reads in part: “HEDA is working with credible organisations to expose the contract fraud over the years in NDDC. This has become necessary to save the commission and to protect the people of the Niger Delta on whose behalf the commission was established.” It stated that the recent revelation by Akpabio that members of the National Assembly took the lion share of the NDDC contract has exposed the futility of any probe instituted by the National Assembly. Also, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC)/Transparency International Nigeria, while commending the efforts of all teams working on the audit, especially the House of Representatives in response to the president’s order for a speedy and coordinated probe, said there must be transparency in the probe. CISLAC’s executive director, Auwal Ibrahim Musa Rafsanjani, said the Centre is saddened by the recent unfolding development in the probe which includes the controversial attempt to arrest, allegations and counter allegations of corruption between all alleged parties, the outbursts at the investigative hearing and all other undue occurrences within the process. “Speaking with LEADERSHIP in Uyo, President of Ibibio Youth Council, Imoh Okoko, said rather than scrapping the commission what federal government should do now is to sack the current Interim Management Committee and reposition the commission. Okoko explained that most of the problem of the commission was orchestrated by people from the region, adding that what happened at the public hearing was an embarrassment to the people of the region. Also speaking, coordinator of Akwa Ibom Human Rights Community, Clifford Thomas, said the aims and objectives of the commission was still very relevant to the good people of the region, noting however that it was rather unfortunate to hear what was currently happening in NDDC. Thomas who is also the executive director,  Foundation for Civic  Education Human Right and Development, argued that NDDC should not be scrapped but the  forensic auditing should go on as planned while names of all the people, including National Assembly members who collected contracts from the commission and has not delivered should be made public. In his own contribution, a final year student of the University of Uyo, John Akpan, described as worrisome and a show of shame what happened recently at the public hearing on the commission. Akpan stated that instead of scrapping the commission, federal government should put in place a formidable team that is not made of thieves to take\ charge of the organization. Also speaking, Proprietor of Ewill Comprehensive Secondary School, Imbioto 1 in Etinan local government area of Akwa Ibom State, Enobng  Ebong,  said he would not support scrapping of NDDC because if the commission is closed there would  be serious  crime in the region. According to Mr. Gordy Mba, the problem with the commission is not with the name, but the calibre of people who had been managing it, calling for a total overhaul of the commission. He maintained that it was most disgusting that the management of the commission could be spending such huge sums of money on frivolities while the people are living in abject poverty. Emem Okon, Executive Director, Kabekache Women Development and Resource Centre, said that scrapping of the NDDC was not the way out of the problems in the Niger Delta. She said that NDDC should not be scrapped. According to her all the money spent by managers of the NDDC for themselves is enough to bring a positive impact on the lives of the people in the region rather than sharing the money among themselves. According to Okon, rather than scrapping the NDDC, the federal government should use information revealed to intensify advocacy for accountability “If NDDC is scrapped now, it will still be a process and opportunity to take more money that they will not account for. Let organisations and groups use this as a window to mount pressure on the NDDC to do the right thing. Let people begin to engage with them for more information to be revealed”, he said.  PDP Jittery Of NDDC Probe – APC Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) said yesterday that the Peoples Democratic Party PDP has become jittery over the ongoing parliamentary inquisition into the activities of the NDDC as well as the forensic audit of the interventionist agency. The party further blasted the opposition, saying “its self-indicting statement speaks of the weight of corruption” bedeviling the operations of the commission, adding that successive PDP governments and their cronies institutionalised a culture of contract fraud and other corrupt practices in the country. The PDP had in a statement on Monday on the NDDC’s probe tagged current administration as a corrupt government. But APC in a statement by its deputy national publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena,  said, “Nigerians can now understand that the PDP is not interested in the current moves by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to reposition the NDDC but the PDP is dead-scared of the outcome of 2001 to 2019 forensic audit and legislative inquests of the NDDC operations. The PDP is doing everything to sabotage and frustrate the audits. The statement added: “We must support the forensic audit of the 19 years of the NDDC, which includes the first 4 years of the President Buhari administration as well as well-meaning legislative inquests for the benefit of the Niger Delta region.  South-South Govs Back Forensic Audit Meanwhile, the South-South Governors Forum has declared that it wholeheartedly supports the forensic audit of the NDDC ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari. The forum, which expressed concern over the crisis rocking the commission, said that it was convinced and expecting that the audit would serve to put the NDDC on a sound corporate governance footing and reposition it to better deliver on its mandate. Chairman of the forum and Delta State governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, in a statement said the South-South governors were in full support of the ongoing investigation of the commission by the Senate. The statement reads in part: “We believe the Senate is operating within its oversight functions through the Ad-Hoc committee set up for that purpose. “It behoves us to respect the Senate oversight function and allow it to discharge this responsibility in a fair, transparent and equitable manner. “The South-South Governors are desirous to see an NDDC that is fully alive and responsive to its mandate of accelerating infrastructural development of the Niger Delta region and enhancing the general living conditions of our people. “Hence, we will not hesitate to give our unqualified support to any policy initiative that will make this a reality. “The Forum wishes to advise the combatants in the current crisis in the NDDC to refrain from utterances and actions that will breach the peace and security of the region.” The governors condemned the attempted abduction of Nunieh, the immediate past Acting Managing Director of the Commission, in the early hours of last Thursday, saying it was unwarranted, unnecessary and uncalled for. The forum called on relevant security authorities to investigate the unfortunate development. The statement further noted: “Let it be on record that we are neither in support of nor against Ms Nunieh in the current cloud of controversy surrounding the NDDC. “However, as responsible public servants and leaders in the Niger Delta, we are mindful of the implications her attempted abduction could have on the peace and security of the region, which the current administration has labored to sustain in the last five years. “We do not want that to be truncated as it can have adverse consequences on the national economy. We urge the feuding parties in the NDDC to conduct themselves in a civil, orderly and lawful manner for the good of the region and the progress of the country.  Gbajabiamila Gives Akpabio 48 Hours To Name Contract Beneficiaries Meanwhile, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabimila, has given the minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godswill Akpabio 48 hours to publish names of lawmakers with contracts in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Giving the ultimatum at the plenary yesterday, he said the minister should publish the names of the companies, the amounts the contracts were awarded for, the location of the projects and every other detail of payments. Gbajabimila warned that failure to publish the details of contracts awarded to lawmakers will attract the full weight of the law. This ruling was sequel to a point of order raised by the Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu (PDP-Delta), on the floor of the Green Chambers. At an investigative hearing on the alleged misappropriation of funds amounting to N40 billion in the NDDC, Akpabio, said that 60 per cent of contracts in the commission were awarded to lawmakers. Gbajabimila said that Akpabio was just playing one of the oldest games in the book by throwing a baseless accusation to cause distractions. “This is my fifth time in the House and I have never benefited any contract and it is so for many of us here”, he noted. He recalled that ahead of the probe, the chairman of the Committee on NDDC, Olubumi Tunji-Ojo (APC-Ondo), was accused of collecting contracts without documents to back it up. Gbajabimila recalled that Tunji-Ojo stepped aside as a result of the accusation and when asked at the probe, Akpabio denied knowledge of any of such contract awarded to the chairman. He said that such practices will not be allowed to stand in the parliament.      