Stakeholders in the nation’s maritime industry have cautioned against the boycott of the Secure Anchorage Area (SAA) which is presently securing ships berthing in Nigerian waters from piracy attacks.
The SAA is operated by Ocean Marine Solution Limited (OMSL), a private company which provides logistics,equipment and support for the Navy to police the waters and ensure that ships coming into Lagos seaports are kept in a safe and secure environment while in Nigerian territorial waters. The stakeholders disagreed with the recent Marine Notice issued by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) directing shipping companies to boycott the Secure Anchorage Area, saying it will rubbish the security gains recorded in recent times and may lead to upsurge of criminality in the Gulf of Guinea.
It was gathered that the NPA management had recently issued a marine notice to ship masters, ship owners and other operators whose vessels currently enjoy some level of security at the designated anchorage to boycott the Anchorage thereby brewing fresh crisis. According to the United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel Report, piracy, which is the fundamental reason for the anchorage initiative, poses a great challenge for the country, as its 2019 report showed that Nigeria lost approximately $2.8 billion in 2018, due to crude oil and maritime crimes.
The president of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), the umbrella body of freight forwarders in Nigeria, Mr Increase Uche, noted that dismantling the SAA might send the wrong signal to shipping companies. He said, “Removing the SAA may fuel insecurity in our waters. We are not indicting the Nigerian Navy or saying that the NPA has no right to raise alarm if they feel Nigeria’s security is being threatened. If there is intelligence on that the government should investigate and take action.
“Our position and that of concerned shipping operators is that we want a situation whereby there is decorum; we want to see that our waters are well-secured so that the freight cost payable cannot add to the cost of doing business in our ports.
“To us the practitioners, what we are advocating is that government should look at the issue critically. If the NPA is agitating that such measures should be terminated, let us look at it holistically”. A maritime analyst, Emeka Ejiofor, who spoke on the renewed efforts to curb OMSL’s involvement in the SAA project, noted: “The disruption of the SAA arrangement operated by OMSL might cause the shipping community in the country a huge lost.
“Ships may be compelled to divert goods destined to Nigeria to other country, and this will not do the country’s economy any good. Diversion of goods to neighbouring countries will surely have a catastrophic effect on our economy. This is why it is surprising that this is coming from those who should know better”.
Also, a shipowner who did not want his name mentioned in print pointed out that the collaboration between the Ocean Marine Solution Limited and the Nigerian Navy is very important to the nation’s maritime industry in particular and the Gulf of Guinea in general.
The ship owner said, “OMSL was working for national interest and has continued to provide security service at the anchorage to the admiration of ship owners and operators that anchor their vessels at the designated area.”
Meanwhile, a clearing agent operating at Tin-Can Island port, Chibuike Donald, called for partnership with the Nigerian Ports Authority on the SAA for the larger interest of the nation and its economy.
His words: “I know that based on the collaborative effort of both OMSL and the Navy, vessels at the anchorage can no longer be attacked.
“OMSL relationship with the Nigerian Navy was purely for security purposes and not port operations. Stakeholders are of the view that the port management should better concentrate on the more pressings issues”. Donald suggested however that the security arrangement in the Lagos Anchorage District be replicated in the Eastern ports, saying it will curb the issue of insecurity currently being experienced in that axis and boost the economy of the eastern flanks.
It would be recalled that of recent, Nigeria waters were now safe from pirate activities as OMSL vessels, operated with the Nigerian Navy, have consistently saved the country from the negative publicity of being reputed to have unsafe sea territory. Recently, FleetMon Explorer, an international news agency, reported that a patrol boat (NNS SPARROW) operated and owned by the joint team of Nigeria Navy and OMSL respectively, rescued a general cargo ship ‘Huanghai Glory,’ which left the Lekki Port, east of Lagos Nigeria on Thursday March 5, 2020.
The ship was reported to have been attacked and boarded by pirates at 1820 UMT some 85 nautical miles (NM) south of Lagos Nigeria.
The ship and its 23 crew members (all Chinese) were rescued from pirates attack by the NNS Sparrow from the SAA. The team from the SAA also rescued a general cargo ship ‘Huanghai Glory’ which “was attacked, boarded by pirates at 1820 UTC Mar 5, some 85nm south of Lagos Nigeria, Gulf of Guinea” and was “drifting after attack, not responding to contact requests,” according to Dryad Global.
The rescued ship was not under any contractual agreement with OMSL before it offered to intervene on the platform of national interest.
As international oil companies (IOCs) grapple with a historic plunge in crude prices, a rise in piracy is also poised to threaten supply chains.
According to the International Maritime Bureau (IMB), first quarter of 2020 saw a spike in piracy around the world, with 47 attacks compared to 38 for the same period last year.
The Gulf of Guinea, home to eight oil exporting countries in West Africa, has emerged as a global hot spot, accounting for 21 attacks so far this year and 90 per cent of all kidnappings at sea in 2019. My Approval For Vessels Auction Legal – Malami Meanwhile, minister of Justice and attorney-general of the federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN), has said that he followed the legal due process in granting approval for the sale of some vessels arrested for their involvement in oil bunkering. In the statement released by his special assistant on media and public relations, Dr Umar Jibrilu Gwandu, the AGF said the recovered monies for the sale of the vessels and their crude oil content had been paid into the Federal Government Asset Recovery Account domiciled at the Central Bank of Nigeria.
Although Malami didn’t disclose how the vessels were sold, he however listed the vessels concerned as MT ASTERIS with Crude Oil; MV PSV DERBY with Automated Gas Oil (AGO); MV ZAHRA with Automated Gas Oil (AGO); MT PEACE; and MT ANUKET EMERALD. Gwandu said the allegation that the AGF granted approval to a firm (Omoh Jay Nig Ltd) purportedly standing trial in court for stealing crude oil, diesel to auction goods seized from it was misleading saying it was aimed at confusing the public and tarnishing his principal’s good image. He added that Omoh Jay Nig Ltd which conducted an Open Bid Sale for the five vessels was earlier granted approval vide Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) letter DPR/DSM/ROM/OPS/COL 2/285 dated 11th August, 2009 to evacuate the products onboard of MT AKUADA and MT HOPE. The AGF continued: “That was four years before the coming of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s government and long before Malami was appointed as the Attorney General of the Federation. “The AGF confirms that following the president directive to clear territorial waters and highways of obsolete and unauthorized vessels, barges, ships, boats, trucks vehicles amongst others, it obtained Final Forfeiture Orders dated 16th January, 2018 and 15th April, 2019 from the Federal High Court on behalf of the Federal Government of Nigeria in Suit N0 FHC/ABJ/CS/741/2017, FHC/ABJ/CS/742/2017 and FHC/ABJ/CS/237/2019.” “Based on the advice of the Office of the National Security Adviser which is predicated upon the risk being posed by the drifting vessel MT ANUKET containing crude oil at Elegushi Beach and on the basis of the expertise and experience of Omoh Jay Nigeria Limited in the disposal of the content of AKUADA and MT HOPE when engaged by the Department of Petroleum Resources dated 11th August, 2009. The OHAGF engaged them vide letter dated 9th September, 2019 to conduct an Open Bid Sale for the vessels “It is worthy to mention that the disposal of the vessels were done following the final forfeiture obtained by the OHAGF and the Presidential Directive of 25th October, 2018 directing the OHAGF to put in the interim before the passage of the Proceeds of Crime Bill, appropriate transitional arrangements for the management and expeditious disposal of the realizable assets so as to preserve their economic value. “Therefore, as far as the question of criminality of Omoh Jay Nigeria Ltd is concerned, it is not before the OHAGF and for avoidance of doubt, it should be noted that the disposed of the vessels under reference were conducted with due process following a report submitted by the Federal Ministry of Works, Power and Housing on the value of these assets. “It should be further noted that Omoh Jay Nigeria Limited is one amongst the Thirty-Eight (38) auctioneers appointed by the OHAGF after being selected during the opening of the pre-qualification Bid. “The disposal of the vessels was also done following Final Forfeiture Order obtained by the OHAGF and recovered monies are paid into the FGN Recovery Account. “As at date, the recovered monies for the sale of MT Asteris with Crude Oil and content in MT Anuket Emerald has been paid into the FGN Asset Recovery Account domiciled at CBN. “The process that led to the purported auction in contention had its antecedence in a letter reference number (DPR/DSM/ROM/OPS/V.2/285) dated 11th August, 2009 from the Ministry of Petroleum Resources titled “Re: Update on the status of vessels arrested for illegal bunkering – MT Akauda and MT HOPE” by which the Chief of Naval Staff was notified”. The statement further noted: “Considering the deteriorating state of the vessels as evidenced by frequent ingress of water into the tanks, which threatens the environment as expressed in your letter referenced above, and in order to avoid possible spillage from the vessels and consequent environmental pollution, we wish to state clearly that we do not have any objection with the evacuation of the vessels. “Evidenced by the above correspondence, it is only reasonable and logical to conclude that the process of the Auction as its relates to the vessel was at the multi-institutional instance out of environmental concerns and the process that ensued eventually entertained public expression of interest on account of which Omoh-Jay Nigeria Limited is one. “In tune and in line with the presumption of innocence, eligibility of the company as a legal entity Omoh-Jay Nigeria Limited was profiled, considered and allocated vessels that were available for disposals. “I make bold to state that Omoh-Jay Nigeria Limited was in no way known, associated or related to the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, either in his official or personal capacities”.