As part of efforts by the Bauchi State governor to cushion the effect associated with the ban on commercial motorcycle in Bauchi, the State Governor Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed has distributed interest free tricycles, known as Keke Napep on loan. The distributed tricycles have a repayment period of two years from the date of collection. A statement by the governor’s media aide Mukhtar Gidado said the distributed tricycles tagged “Kaura Economic Empowerment 2020” was designed to cushion the effect of the ban of achaba to the beneficiaries across the state. Speaking at the launching of the scheme, Governor Bala Mohammed said in effort to make the project a reality, his administration had deposited the sum of 250 million naira for the purchase and distribution of the tricycles. The statement said the project is a continuous and revolving scheme as the installment payment by the beneficiaries of the first batch will be used to purchase more units of the keke Napep. “Today’s event is yet another milestone in the history of this Government and Nigerian Democracy as a nation and more importantly party of making the achievements recorded within the first year of my administration.” “As you may recall, Government has banned the use of Achaba in the state for security and health purposes. In the alternative, the State Government decided to purchase 1000 units of Keke Napep to replace it”, Governor Bala Mohammed said during the distribution. The governor said the gesture was to ameliorate the difficulties caused by the absence of achaba operations across communities in Bauchi. Governor Bala Mohammed who congratulated the beneficiaries of the Keke Napep, enjoined them to make good use of the favourable income generating venture by making consistent repayment of the loan. “As you may wish to know, the ban of Achaba was not done to make life difficult to the people, but the benefit for its absence grossly overweight its presence on the street and the attendant criminal plans and conspiracy caused to the peaceful living of our people.” “Let me reiterate that, the distribution of the Keke Napep is the beginning of provision of essential services to the good people of Bauchi state, and is an interest free loan to the beneficiaries who are to pay the balance in 24 months by installment payment through the Ministry of Cooperatives, Small and Medium Enterprises Development”, the Governor added. The state governor said, “I want to use this medium to make it clear that the ban of achaba operations in the state is a temporary and would be suspended when the state government overcomes the challenges associated with the operation.” “Already matching funds of 250 million naira has been paid and awaiting to be implemented”, he added. On his part, the State Commissioner for Cooperatives, Small and Medium Enterprises Development, Honorable Usman Saleh said the Keke Napep were distributed at free interest loan of seven hundred thousand naira only, to enable the beneficiaries repay the loan with less difficulties.