Trending beauty and sex therapist, Tobi Kukoyi in partnership with YANA Foundation extended a charitable deed to underserved community in Apogbon Isale of Ketu, Lagos recently to donate household items to residents of the community. The Mydsiac boss with a heart of gold expressed that giving to the needy is a thing of beauty for her, and as such the necessity to put smiles on the faces of residents of the community by extending aid to them, who have been living under poor conditions and crave for a total transformation in infrastructure. “I love helping the less privileged and I saw this as an opportunity to reach out and support them. YANA foundation is an NGO that I’m proud of its acts of generosity to humanity. I feel great being a part of this and helping those in need. It truly is a beautiful experience helping the needy,” Kukoyi said. Among items donated were clothes for children and adults, beddings, curtains, water flasks, cutleries, coolers, table mats, cooking pots and other household items as the country continues to battle the Covid-19 pandemic. The founder, YANA (You Are Not Alone), Mrs. Alafia Pedro satisfied with the outcome of the distribution of the items to the people said, “Kukoyi is passionate about the welfare of family members, friends, acquaintances and strangers. The YANA foundation partnered with her because of her benevolent nature. Helping people in need is truly a beautiful experience.” She noted that the foundation is geared towards personal development, mental and emotional health, welfare and skills acquisition. Prior to embarking on the charitable project, Kukoyi has been involved in other projects targeted at empowering youths in skills acquisition via free workshops and seminars including turning passion into profit, skin care and make up skills acquisition, empowering youths for good governance, among other laudable projects. It would be recalled that Nollywood actors, Nosa Rex and Seyi Edun were named as Mydsiac’s ambassadors sometime ago. The brand’s products have helped to remedy sexual issues of many that had hitherto threatened to shatter their relationships.