Contrary to the perception that reducing workers’ pay could cushion the impact of COVID-19 on local economies, experts have warned that such steps do not have a significant impact on the economy. The common view of the economic experts is that cutting workers’ salaries cannot stop the Nigerian economy from drifting into the expected recession this year. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects that the Nigerian economy would witness a deeper contraction of 5.4 per cent against the earlier 3.4 per cent negative growth it projected in April 2020. The global lender however expects the economy to rebound by 2.6 per cent in 2021. Both the national and state governments have been hard hit by the coronavirus-induced economic downturn due to business lockdown and restriction of movements amid lower revenue mobilisation to finance state projects. The lockdown has fully affected the supply side of the economy. Apart from the drop in oil prices at the international market due to the pandemic, there has also been a noticeable drop in diaspora remittances, all combining to result in sharp decline in the nation’s foreign reserves. While the federal government is prioritising cut in cost of governance and downward review of the 2020 budget as part of efforts to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19, state governments go as far as cutting salaries of public workers and political appointees, while also cutting the size of their budgets. Those who spoke with LEADERSHIP on the positive impact or otherwise of the action of state governments with a focus on salvaging their respective economies say salary cut or reduction will further demoralise and encourage the public workers to steal, a situation they say may eventually paralyze the economy and may also force workers into joining the bad wagons of corrupt public officials. An economic analyst, Dr Ibraheem Saka Ominiwe said, “Salary Cut is not the right antidote or remedy to improve the economy or stop the country from going into recession. Salary reduction is not the answer. “Any attempt to cut the workers’ salary will only lead to economic hardship to the affected workers. The cut or reduction in salary will not have any positive impact on the economy”. He stated that the reduction in the salaries of civil servants and political appointees was not a panacea to the country’s economy. Former Dean of the Faculty of Business and Social Sciences at the University of Ilorin, Prof Hassan Salihu, noted that a cut in the salaries of categories of Nigerian workers cannot make any impact on the nation’s economy. Salihu told LEADERSHIP in Ilorin, Kwara State, that it makes more sense to reduce the financial packages of politicians because the economy can no longer carry the burden. “That gesture can no longer make the desired impact on the economy for two simple reasons. First, the economic environment is already charged for the civil servants in view of the collateral impact of coronavirus on the economy that has shot up prices of goods and services,” Salihu added. In Oyo State, the government had reduced salaries of political appointees by 30 per cent. But the salaries of the civil servants were not affected. The state governor, Engr. Seyi Makinde, explained that the salary cut was as a result of the ravaging coronavirus which he said had adversely affected the state’s economy. LEADERSHIP checks showed that salaries of political appointees in Taraba State cabinet have been slashed down by 30 per cent. Civil servants and political appointees in Kaduna State in April this year were made to take between 25 per cent and 50 per cent pay cut and donated to the state’s COVID-19 relief initiative during the lockdown. The justification was that the money was to take care of the vulnerable and poor. Aside that, other categories of political appointees had to part with monthly donations to support the provision of relief to the low income, poor and vulnerable, according to Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s aide on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye. A career public servants who earned a net pay of N67,000 and above after-tax donated 25 per cent of his monthly salary, while  all senior appointees, including commissioners, permanent secretaries, special advisers and heads of agencies of government each donated N500,000 in April and subsequently donated 50 per cent of their salaries until the end of the government declared lockdown of the state. “What are the salaries and allowances of the core civil servants that you want to cut?” Salihu queried. In Kano State, the government had cut down the salaries of workers for two months running. A level 12 officer now has his/her salaries slashed by about N10,000 monthly. An officer in level 14 said his salary has been reduced by N20,000. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje had earlier announced a 50 per cent slash in the salaries of political officeholders. Our correspondent gathered that the last three months have been critical for civil servants in Kogi State who have been facing realities of financial pains. The monthly salary has depleted to 80 per cent even when 100 per cent salaries have not met the unavailable demands and realities of the times. An economist, Chief Chika Onuegbu, said the salary cut will affect the economy negatively. “If income goes down, obviously, the ability of households to demand for goods and services will also go down. “What happens is that production has to adjust to meet up with the lower levels of demand,” he explained in argument against the belief in some quarters that reduction in salaries could help to mitigate the economic consequences of the pandemic and insulate the economy. A  civil servant in Lokoja,  Adamu Sadiq, retorted that the explanations given by the administration of Governor Yahaya Bello in Kogi State was that allocation from the federation account to the purse of the state government had dropped and has affected all the segments of the state’s administration’s performances and the percentage payment has to be adopted till the economy improves. Also, despite the dwindling revenue to Anambra State government, its commissioner for information, Mr Don Adinuba claims that it had not affected payment of salaries of the civil servants, pensioners and political appointees in any way. But the case is not the same in Ekiti State where all political appointees in the state had their salaries slashed by 50 per cent in April this year. It also affected the state governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi and his deputy Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi as well as the state’s 2020 budget which was also reviewed downward by 27 per cent. It however did not affect salaries of civil servants. The situation is about the same across the states. Ominiwe who is also the president, Educational Legacy College (ELC), Ibadan, thinks that instead of salary cuts, outright blocking of wastages and corruption would save the nation’s economy. He said, “Let us plug all the wastage into the nation’s economy system and stop corruption. Let us reduce the wastages, kill corruption so as to improve the economy and the wellbeing of not only the workers but the entire citizenry. Though unofficial, the cost of awarding contracts in Nigeria is alarming”. The Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN) also rejected pay cuts for Nigerian workers and political appointees, saying only a radical measure can mitigate the effects of the economic crisis, not a mere cut in the salary of political office holders. The SPN’s acting national chairperson, Bamigboye Abiodun and national secretary, Chinedu Bosah, rejected any attempt to slash or cut the meagre salary earned by the workers. A professor of law and former attorney-general of Abia Atate, Chief Awa Kalu (SAN), said that the country can’t get out of the impending recession by merely slashing the salaries of political appointees and public servants. He noted: ” We don’t even know how much they earn, so, we may not know how helpful it would be, if their salaries are slashed. Recession is a serious economic issue for any country. So, when you are talking about it, can we get out of it by mere slashing salaries? ”We don’t even know how many they are because it is only when we know how many they are and how much they earn that we can begin to male projections”. Another senior advocate, Mr Ahmed Raji (SAN), said the slash in salaries was the negative effect of the recession. According to him, the government needs to quickly diversify the economy and not only depend on oil proceeds. ”If the salaries of political appointees and public servants are slashed, it is simply the negative effect of the recession. The question is what can the government do? The way out is for the government to quickly diversify the economy and not depend solely on the proceeds of oil”, he added. A United States-based lawyer and the coordinator, Justice for Jos, Mr. Emmanuel Ogebe, in his view said slashing salaries of workers was completely antithetical to good governance and the proper management of the pandemic crisis right now. He said, ”In the US, over 40 million people have lost their job which is about 10 per cent of the US population. The 3 million employees of the US federal government have relative security and rather than cut salaries, the government is reviewing costly and non-essential programmes. “In fact the US is providing unemployment benefits to those who lost their jobs and stimulus checks to all filed taxes whether or not they lost their jobs or are earning below a certain amount. Even farmers are being helped”. The chief executive officer of Coalition Against Corrupt Leaders (CACOL), Comrade Debo Adeniran, said the decision of some state governors and National Assembly to have cut down on their expenses was not done with genuine intention. He said, “It is not about being sensitive or not being sensitive. They have made budget provision for COVID -19 and that budget they have not given account of how they have executed it. That first and foremost is important for them to do before they can say they cut down on expenses. “That is included in the budget of the state, not the number of associates they pay. If they want to do real cutting down, they will do it with the personnel and not the civil servants”. 