The Council of Anambra North Traditional Rulers  threw their weight behind the Southern Senatorial Zone producing the next governor of the state in 2021. The council also disassociated itself from a newspaper publication (not LEADERSHIP) on March 22nd, 2020 wherein some traditional rulers who said they were speaking for the zone, opposed the rotation/zoning of the office of the Governor of Anambra State. The council of traditional rulers stated this in communiqué released after their meeting over the weekend in state. The communique was signed by chairman of the Anambra North Chapter of the Anambra State Forum of Traditional Rulers Council [ASTRC] Igwe Victor Awogu and the Secretary Igwe Simeom Chidubem. The communiqué said, “we wish to disassociate members of the Anambra North Chapter of Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council from the newspapers publication wherein some traditional rulers purporting to be speaking for Ndi Igwe Anambra North opposed the rotation/zoning of the office of the Governor of Anambra State. At no time other than June 6,2020 did Ndi Igwe Anambra North discuss and take a position on the rotation/zoning of the office of the Governor of Anambra State. “We affirm that it is the turn of Anambra South Senatorial Zone to produce the next Governor of Anambra, for two terms of eight years starting from March 16th,2022 in keeping with the position already taken in 2007, by Anambra State Traiditional Rulers Council [ASTRC] and re-echoed on March 5th, 2020 by Anambra State Elders Forum.” They further commended the state Governor Willy. M Obiano, for his management of the affairs of Anambra State, since 2013, noting that he has proven spectacular capacity, so far in containing the COVID-19 pandemic. The royal fathers also condemned the hostilities recently witnessed in a number of communities in Anambra North Senatorial Zone, as such shameful acts portrayed the zone in bad light and caused Obiano very anxious moments. “We also resolved to use time tested traditional method of Igbandu/Iko mme to enthrone lasting peace in the affected Anambra North Communities while thanking the state government for setting up peace building committees,” the communique added. The group called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the governors of the 36 states of the federation to join hands in ensuring that COVID-19 is defeated in the shortest possible time to enable Nigerians resume normal social and economic activities.