The Federal Government has released a comprehensive schedule for various National Examinations for exit classes, spanning from 17th August to 18th November, 2020. Minister of State for Education, Hon Chukwuemeka Nwajuiba, made the announcement on Wednesday in Abuja after series of meetings with Chief Executives of examination bodies in the country. He said the Senior Secondary School Certificate Examinations, (SSCE) for SS3, conducted by NECO will start on the 5th of October and end on 18th of November, 2020 while  the  National Business and Technical Examination Board, (NABTEB) examinations will start on the 21st September and end by 15th October, 2020. Furthermore, the National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies, (NBAIS) examination will commence on Wednesday, 23rd September and end by 17th October, 2020. Federal government had earlier announced that the West African Examinations Council, (WAEC-SSCE) will start on the 17th of August, 2020. A statement by the Ministry’s Director, Press and Public Relations, Ben Bem Goong also revealed that the National Common Entrance Examination, (NCEE) which is a one-day NECO examination for intending applicants into Unity Colleges (JSS1) will run in-between the Senior Secondary Certificate Examinations i.e. on Saturday, 17th October, 2020. According to him, “The Basic Education Certificate Examinations, (BECE) for JSS 3 also conducted by NECO, will start on the 24th of August and end on the 7th of September, 2020.” Meanwhile, registration for the NECO (SSCE), which is on-going, will end on the 10th of September, 2020 and there shall be no extension for the registration whatsoever. The Minister therefore, directed all examination bodies to release details of their examination timetables in the next seven days. For the one – day National Common Entrance Examination conducted by NECO, it is compulsory for parents and pupils to wear face masks on the exam date, while also carrying along with them, alcohol-based sanitizers. Present at the meeting which was chaired by the Honourable Minister of State for Education, were the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Arc Sonny Echono, Registrar, Joint Admissions Matriculations Board, (JAMB), Prof  Is-haq Oloyede; Registar, National Examinations Council, (NECO), Prof Godswill Obioma; Registrar, National Business and Technical Examination Board, (NABTEB) Prof Ifeoma Isiugo-Abanihe; National Board for Arabic and Islamic Studies, (NBAIS) Dr. Raji as well as the Acting Registrar of the West African Examinations Council (WAEC), Dr J.O. Oke. 