The Kebbi State Governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, has approved the commencement of free registration for the Federal Government N-Power programme for the unemployed youths across the state . This was announced in Birnin Kebbi by the Commissioner of Budget and Economic Planning, Dr. Abba Sani Kalgo. The free N-Power registration programme, according to the Commissioner, would commence on Monday, July 6th, 2020, at all the designated centers, which include all the local government areas and Emirate Headquarters. He further explained that, the applicants from the state capital, Birnin Kebbi, would be registered at the Emir of Gwandu’s Palace, Alhaji Muhammadu Iliyasu Bashar and ICT Centre of the Waziri Umaru Federal Polytechnic, Birnin Kebbi. He averred: “Kebbi State Ministry of Budget and Planning is calling on Youth interested in the Federal Government N-Power programme to hurry up and come for the free registration and additional information on the programme at the centres provided throughout the state”. ”The registration is to start on Monday, 6th July, 2020, throughout the centres provided. Interested youths are to come with their BVN document and valid Identity Card. “They are also requested to come along with the original copies of their certificates and other required documents for capturing and subsequent forwarding, via internet to the N-power programme headquarter.” The Commissioner further urged all those coming for the registration to wear their face masks, maintain social and physical distancing at the registration centres. Dr. Abba Sani Kalgo, called on the applicants, especially youths in the state to take advantage of this golden opportunity to get registered for the programme. He also thanked Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu for his sustained invaluable support to the Ministry, to carry out the exercise free of charge for the applicants. “Because of his concern for the development and empowerment of youths in the state, the governor, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, directed that, the exercise be carried out free of charge throughout the state, ‘he commended’.