The Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps
(NSCDC), Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu, has said that contrary to reports
that President Muhammadu Buhari graciously approved the extension of
his tenure for another five years, he got only six extra months elongation. Muhammadu who attributed what he described as “seriously misleading
and a desperate attempt by mischief makers to cause disaffection in
his agency” explained that the six-month extension runs from July 17,
2020 to January 2021. Muhammadu Gana, in a statement by the Civil Defence spokesman, DCC
Emmanuel Okeh, lamented that, ” this malicious report is not only
bias, unfair but capable of rubbishing my hard end integrity as well
as that of the Corps. The statement partly reads, “It is instructive to point out that the
information, as being circulated in some section of the media is
untrue, incorrect, seriously misleading and a figment of the
imagination of the writers in an attempt to cause confusion and
disaffection in the system, while at the same time projecting the
leadership of the Corps in bad light. “I therefore wish to place on record that the Minister of interior,
Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola graciously approved my extension for only
six-month period having been found worthy of the office, in the face
of numerous successes recorded under my watch as the Corps boss
effective from July 17, 2020 to January 2021 and not for another five
years as wrongly speculated”. The CG, who is greatly disturbed by this distorted publication
according to the statement advised journalists to desist from
misrepresenting facts. The aggrieved Civil Defence boss called on mediums who peddled what he
further tagged; sensational falsehood to immediately retract their
stories as it is not on account of any briefing, disclosure or
interview granted by him. He however promised to ensure the consolidation of the on-going
reforms in the Service in line with the policy thrust of the
administration of President Muhammadu Buhari which is geared towards
ushering the next-level of socio-economic development of Nigeria. LEADERSHIP reports that Muhammadu, who was appointed in July, 2015,
and hails from Niger State, maintained that he is proud of the Civil
Defence uniform and vowed to do his best in raising the morale of
personnel and the general fortune of the Corps without leaving any bad
legacy within the short period of his tenure  elongation. He expressed optimism that the system can be cleansed of all
unpleasant cynosures and indiscipline under any guise if all the staff
rally round each other to actualise the vision of building a
formidable organization. He cautioned his officers not to allow any in-fighting to destroy the
organisation warning that any crack on the wall is capable of rocking
the boat and truncating the collective interest of the organisation. Recall also that President Buhari had in 2019 approved the extension
of tenure of office of the Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Prisons
Service, Ja’afaru Ahmed by one (1) calendar year, which took effect
from  July 21, 2019. Ja’afaru whose tenure was to end on July 21, 2019 was reportedly
recommended for the extension due to his track record of innovative
reforms in the Prisons Service and the need to consolidate and complete some of the on-going programmes especially on human rights compliance, reformation and health care, agricultural and education programmes for the inmates.