The Public and Private Development Centre (PPDC) has upgraded its citizens’ procurement portal, Budeshi 2.1. According to Nnenna Eze, the community actions officer, “PPDC created a dedicated web platform called Budeshi that links budget and procurement data to various public services using the Open Contracting Data Standards (OCDS) in a bid to increase transparency and accountability in procurement processes. “Budeshi hosts data from several Ministries, Departments, Agencies (MDAs) across different sectors and is primarily being used to demonstrate to public institutions the utility of using uniform data standards to publish and report information across stages in the procurement value chain. “With multiple iterations of the first version of Budeshi that started on an excel sheet in 2015, the Budeshi team immediately saw the need to have an accessible online portal where users could interact with the data and make comparisons, the first version of Budeshi was built in 2016. “After two years of showcasing Budeshi to stakeholders and growing its users, the team released the second version of Budeshi that had more features such as the project cards and the how-to feature. Less than a year from the last update, the team began working on a new version of Budeshi that came with a new look and feel but most importantly, provided its users with access to thousands of datasets. “During the launch, Kunle Adelowo, software developer, showcased for the first time, some of the new features which include a chat box that allows users to make inquiries, a share button that allows users to share details on social media, a breakdown of contract details, infographics to aid visualisation, and details of monitored projects. “To ensure hitch-free interactions with the platform, PPDC is pleased to showcase the latest version of Budeshi with improved features to make users’ experience seamless. We urge every citizen to interact with the platform. It is our pleasure to have you come on board this journey to ensure transparency, accountability, and create a better future for our society. “Public and Private Development Centre (PPDC) is a civil society organisation that seeks to promote transparency, accountability, and improved citizens’ engagement by making procurement data easily accessible to citizens.” 