Senator Uba Sani, representing Kaduna Central constituency has said that his identification of education as key priority was conscious, deliberate and inspired by Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai’s Education Revival Programme. Making the statement while addressing a high powered delegation from Giwa Local Government, the Senator Uba said it was also the outcome of his critical look into the dwindling standard of education in the North and its negative effect on the socio-economic and political development of the region. Vowing never to waver in following in the footsteps of Governor El-Rufai, the Senator restated commitment to doing all that is needed to ensure a better future for the children through education. Uba Sani said:”But the immediate push and inspiration for me to take action was Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s Education Revival Program. His holistic approach to reviving education has been widely acclaimed. Kaduna State has become a model of educational reform, all thanks to our focused, dynamic and resourceful Governor,” he said. “In this wise, I am making efforts to attract an intervention for the construction of a befitting hostel and an ICT Centre at the Government Girls Secondary School (GGSS), Giwa. “I assure the good people of Giwa LG, and indeed, Kaduna Central Senatorial District of my continued good representation and attracting of projects and investments. All I crave is your usual understanding and cooperation,” he said. Stakeholders of Giwa Local Government visited Senator Uba to show appreciation over the passage of his Bill for an Act to Establish the Federal College of Education, Giwa, Kaduna State by the Senate. Led by the Giwa Local Government Chairman, Hon. Abubakar Shehu, the powerful delegation comprised of House of Representatives member, Hon. Shehu Balarabe Bakauye (Birnin Gwari/Giwa Federal Constituency), Chairman, All Progressives Congress (APC), Giwa Local Government, Alh. Ibrahim Musa. Others in the delegation included Kaduna House of Assembly members; Hon. Yusuf Ibrahim and Hon. Rilwanu Gadagau, traditional leaders, religious scholars, ward councilors and executive members of the APC in Giwa Local Government. The delegation showered encomiums on the Senator for putting Giwa Local Government on the national map of education and for making revitalization of education a key priority. The delegation however assured him of their total support and cooperation in ensuring that the College becomes a reality.