Indications emerged last night that certain officials of the EFCC have received letters of indefinite suspension, following the ongoing probe of the suspended acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr Ibrahim Magu. Our source confirmed that among those who got the suspension letters include the Secretary to the Commission, Mr. Olanipekun Olukoyede and about 12 other directors. Recall that the Ayo Salami’s led panel had suspended 12 directors of the Commission including the secretary. The order was handed down following a request by the presidential panel investigating the allegations of graft and misconduct against Magu. However, the spokesperson of EFCC, Dele Oyewale has said that normal activities and operations are running smoothly and seamlessly in all its zonal offices across the country, including the corporate headquarters in Abuja. This is coming after days of interrogation and intensive scrutiny of the management of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) which led to the suspension of its acting chairman, Ibrahim Magu and some directors. Oyewale noted that, “Admittedly, latest developments in the Commission and the subsisting COVID-19 protocols necessitated the scaling down of activities”. “However, visitors on invitation by the Commission were in no way affected by the restriction.” He also noted that the EFCC is deeply committed to the anti- corruption agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari and every Nigerian is enjoined to shun and expose corrupt practices anywhere, anytime, noting that “The EFCC is on course and its values remain sound and robust.” Our correspondent, who visited the Jabi office of the EFCC observed that the tension which had hitherto taken over the office, had reduced as everyone was going about their daily activities”. Some staff who spoke to LEADERSHIP stated that everyone had understood that Magu is no longer in charge and everything has changed. Recall that there was mild drama in the EFCC as to who takes over the leadership at the Commission, pending the appointment of a new chairman. While some supporters of the secretary to the Commission, Olanipekun Olukoyede had prepared for him to take over since he’s the second in rank in the leadership of the Commission, a memo from the presidency changed the game plan. By the memo, the director of Operations, Mohammed Umar took over the leadership of the Commission in acting capacity pending the appointment of a substantive chairman by President Mohammadu Buhari.  