The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has approved hazard allowance, ranging from N90,000 to N300,000 for medical personnel on the frontline of the state government’s efforts to contain the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. Governor Obaseki disclosed this at a parley with labour union leaders in the state, as part of activities to mark the International Labour Day, at the Government House, Benin City. He said the state government has completed training for 4,200 health workers to boost the state’s capacity in checking the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Obaseki said, “The Edo State Government has trained over 4,200 healthcare workers in the state. We have also approved life insurance and special allowances for them. The allowance ranges from N90,000 to N300,000 depending on their cadre in the service.” The governor said the theme for the 2020 Workers’ Day celebration, ‘Stop the pandemic at work’, is apt as it concerns the role of workers in halting the spread of COVID-19. He expressed appreciation to all healthcare workers in the state for their commitment and dedication in curtailing the spread of the deadly disease, adding, “I appreciate the labour union for the support in the past three and half years; you have been a great pillar. I have interacted with you, and am proud of you. In my tenure so far, we have not recorded any strike; I hadn’t worked in a unionised environment before becoming governor but someone who claims to be a unionist can’t manage the union.” The governor said his administration has constructed a world-class public training centre for the state’s workforce, noting, “We believe that the tools you give the workers will make them effective. That is why we will continue to do our best for Edo workers. We have also remodelled more than 40 healthcare centres and we are using the facilities as screening centres for COVID-19.” Chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Edo State Chapter, Comrade Sunny Osanyande, commended the Obaseki-led administration for sustaining a good relationship with workers, which has led to industrial harmony between the state government and workers. He commended the governor for the massive infrastructural development and prompt payment of salaries, noting, “Despite the zero allocation, you were able to pay workers’ salaries especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. The workers in Edo State are happy with you. The palliatives you sent got to the three senatorial districts in the state and the people appreciate it.” Chairman of the Edo State Chapter of the Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Marshal Orhue, said the Obaseki-led administration’s developmental stride is second to none, adding, “Your handwriting is everywhere. Don’t be afraid as the workers of Edo State are solidly behind you.”