President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the military to sustain the ongoing counter-insurgency operations on the fringes of Lake Chad and the entire North East zone until the Boko Haram menace is contained. Yobe State governor, Mai Malta Buni, disclosed the fresh presidential directive to State House correspondents yesterday after meeting with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa. The governor, who said that he briefed the president on the security situation in his state, lauded the federal government for the decisive and proactive measures being employed in the renewed onslaught against the boko haram terrorists. He said that significant achievements had been recorded by the military in containing the criminal elements now in disarray after the recent operations by the Chadian military. Governor Buni told the president that if the tempo was maintained, Boko Haram would soon become history. President Buhari, who noted with satisfaction the giant strides being recorded by the armed forces in the fight against insurgency, urged them not to relent in the discharge of their mandate. He specifically warned against complacency in the task of ensuring that the nation’s territory is no longer habitable for the terrorists so that sustainable peace and development can be achieved. The president said that this was necessary towards ensuring that farming and other socioeconomic activities in the area were not disrupted. He expressed the belief that the health and well-being of the country depended largely on its ability to feed itself, adding that agricultural production remained key. President Buhari, however, tasked the Yobe State governor to continuously mobilise community support for the military operations, saying that intelligence sharing and synergy between law enforcement agencies and the civil populace were critical to achieving the objectives. Buni expressed the readiness of the state government to continue supporting security organisations in their efforts towards establishing sustainable peace and security in the state.  