The federal government and governors of northern states have taken drastic steps to curb further spread of coronavirus in the region. This came yesterday as Kano, Gombe, Kaduna and Sokoto states alone accounted for 363 of the 400 cases of the disease so far recorded in the North. When the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) released the update at 11.55pm last night, Kano had 80 new cases, with a total of 219, Kaduna 9, Gombe 12, Bauchi 9, Sokoto 9 and Kaduna 3. Kano now has the highest infection rate, after in Lagos. The disease has also affected 113 health workers in the country.  At the federal level, a special technical team has been assembled to handle the growing cases in Kano State. The team will be assisted by the military, which has been incorporated into the efforts to bring the situation in Kano under control. Similarly, the federal government has appealed to property and hotel owners in the states to make their facilities available for temporary use in the emergency situation. On their parts, the governors in collaboration with security agencies have shut their borders, embarked on aggressive implementation of their lockdown rules, repatriation of almajiri children to their states of origin, testing of travellers arrested at the border posts, and enlightenment campaigns. Commenting yesterday during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on the situation in Kano, the minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, hinted that the Ministerial Task Team sent on a fact-finding mission to the state had submitted an interim report, which provided information on the needs, strengths and weaknesses of the state response system. He said: “While I await a full report, this will guide the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) in supporting Kano State COVID-19 Task Force with necessary material, training and human resources. “He said that they would include assembling and dispatching a technical team from FMoH and virus infectious disease specialists from Irrua Specialist Hospital in Edo State to join a technical team from Lagos Ministry of Health that was on ground in Kano at the request of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. “Similarly, the Nigerian military, under its COVID-19 response plan, will establish an additional isolation centre, treatment facility and a testing laboratory service in Kano State. “The PTF COVID-19, in the immediate, would further strengthen Kano State to scale-up its response with the provision of necessary facilities and equipment, capacity building, improving stakeholder inter-phase and guidance on any existing policy capable of diminishing the fight against the pandemic in the state. “Already, the testing laboratories in the AKTH and the BUK have become fully functional. The PTF has released a number of equipment to be transported immediately to Kano to beef up the response. These include two oxygen concentration and three ventilators; 280 protective gowns, 51 face shields, 538 examination gloves, 25 boot covers, medical masks and surgical caps, and IR thermometers,” he said As of yesterday evening, Kano had a total of 129 confirmed cases. Also, the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said that the PTF was still engaging the Kano State government in the collaborative effort to fight the spread of the virus. He said: “I wish to use this opportunity to reassure all Nigerians resident in Kano that the federal government and particularly this PTF is with them and shall do all possible to fight the disease spread in the state as directed by the president. “Kano is one of our historical cities and remains a backbone for the economy of this nation.  I wish to inform you that the already established isolation and treatment centres with holding capacity for 274 persons, the proposed establishment of additional facilities with capacity for 500, two sample collection centres along with six new proposed centres have provided a strong foundation for tackling the spread of the virus in the state,” Mustapha said. Earlier Ehanire said that everything should not be left to government alone. He said: “Active community transmission and scale up of case finding are expressed in increasing numbers of confirmed persons. Bed spaces and isolation centres at state level need to match the increase and necessitates an appeal to all citizens, especially property and hotel owners, to recognise the imminent needs and the social responsibility of working with state governments to make facilities available for temporary use in emergency situations. “It is of concern to us all that everything should not be left to government alone. We must all take collective ownership of the health and wellbeing of our citizens,” he stated. In a response to a question at the media briefing, Mustapha declared that “no country is ready to ease the lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. .According to him, Nigeria took the decision to balance the health and wealth of its people. Mustapha, who is also the chairman of the task force, added that the government cannot predict what would happen in the next couple of weeks, “because that is the nature of the novel virus, it’s unpredictable.” He said: “The question for whether we are ready for easing lockdown, no country is ready. That’s the truth about it. Look at all the countries; it’s a balance, a very delicate balance that leaders in different countries take. It is really a difficult terrain, and I just don’t envy the leaders when they receive reports and recommendations. “I don’t want to imagine what is going on in their heads, because this is choice of life and death. And a balance of that deserves a lot of resolve by the leader to do good for his people. So, the choice that we’ve taken is to balance the health and also the wealth of the people in such a way we do not further compromise the health of the people,” he said. As part of its renewed measures to fight the virus headlong, the Plateau State government has commenced the profiling and returning of almajiri to their states of origin. Governor Simon Lalong said yesterday in Jos, the state capital that the exercise would continue until the last almajiri is relocated while the first batch of 279 was evacuated. His counterpart in Benue State, Dr. Samuel Ortom, has deported 48 almajiri children from Makurdi, the state capital to their home states. The almajiri were found clustered in an unhealthy residential place. In Gombe State, the state government has banned the commercial motor cycle and tricycle riders to reduce community transmission of the disease. It has also returned almajiri to their home states. Gombe has confirmed 18 new cases, bringing to 64 COVID-19 cases in the state. Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya, in one of the measures to curb the spread of the virus in the Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Ministry of Health has confirmed 16 new COVID-19 cases in the state, saying the new cases were almajiri who came from Kano. Dr. Amina Mohammed-Baloni, the commissioner for Health, in a statement she issued yesterday, said their test results returned positive from a sample of 40 persons whose test results were released. Consequently, the state government has blocked its border routes with Kano State. Baloni said: “We wish to draw the attention of the public to the provisions of the Quarantine Order and the penalties for any wilful contravention. We appeal to the public to be vigilant and to kindly report returnees from states with high infection rates by contacting officials of the Ministry of Health” “We also encourage such persons to contact the ministry officials so that they can be monitored. Failure to do so may make such persons liable to the processes prescribed for violators in the Quarantine Order,” she added. In Sokoto State, 27 cases of the virus have been recorded within two weeks. To check the trend, the state government has directed that “patients with other ailments must not be abandoned just because health workers are looking for COVID-19 cases.” The Kastina State government has confirmed nine more patients of COVID-19 while 14 were discharged from the Federal Medical Centre (FMC). The commissioner for Health, Nuhu Yakubu, told newsmen after the state’s executive meeting that two cases were discovered in Daura and Katsina councils, with one case each from Batagarawa, Kankia, Musawa and Matazu. Disturbed by the development, Governor Aminu Masari ordered a total lockdown of Kankia, Matazu and Musawa councils, which recorded one case each. Yobe State has recorded its index case of coronavirus pandemic, which the chairman, state committee for the control and spread of COVID-19 and deputy governor, Hon. Idi Barde Gubana, has confirmed. Gubana said that an aggressive contact tracing and quarantine had been launched while all exposed areas were disinfected to avert the spread of the disease in the state.  Aisha Buhari Distributes Medical Equipment In Abuja Meanwhile, wife of the president, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has donated both food and medical equipment including drugs to the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and the Federal Medical Centre, Abuja in continuation of her intervention towards curbing the spread of COVID-19. A statement released by her media office indicated that she made the presentation on Wednesday through Dr. Hajo Sani, the senior special assistant to the President on Women Affairs and Administration. The medical items included hand sanitisers, personal protection equipment, disposable gowns, overalls, N95 surgical masks and gloves. The minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen, received the items on behalf of her ministry while the FMC’s chief medical director (CMD), Prof. Saad Ahmed, stood for the hospital. They appreciated the gesture of the First Lady and promised to deliver the items to the expected recipients.  