There was palpable tension yesterday among doctors and nurses at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Idi Aba, Abeokuta, Ogun state capital following the death of a pregnant woman who allegedly died of complications from the dreaded coronalvirus disease in the hospital. LEADERSHIP gathered that the pregnant woman breathed her last while awaiting the result of the COVID-19 test earlier carried on her alongside two others suspected patients. Source within the medical centre told journalists evening in Abeokuta that the pregnant woman and another male patient were tested positive, while the third suspect, a woman had her result read negative when results of the trio eventually came out. Source at the hospital facility further told newsmen that the pregnant woman, who had visited the obstetrics and gynaecology unit of the facility, was later moved from one ward to the other before her death, while the other patient transferred to the state’s COVID-19 Isolation centre at Ikenne in Ikenne local government area of the state. Tension was however, said to have enveloped doctors and nurses on duty following the news of the death of the pregnant woman as no fewer than four medical personnel were said to have had contact with the deceased whose corpse was said to have been deposited at the FMC morgue. As at press time, LEADERSHIP gathered that though none of the medical personnel has been quarantined yet, but management of the hospital in conjunction with the COVID-19 state officials are working towards establishing proper contact tracing over the sad development. When contacted, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the hospital, ‘Segun Orisajo said it would be difficult to make any categorical statement over the matter since it was late already until the entire management team of the hospital meet on Sunday. Orisajo however, told LEADERSHIP on phone that the hospital management would be meeting tomorrow to make official response before 1p.m on Sunday. On her part, the State Commissioner for Health, Dr Tomi Coker while responding to enquiry, said “I am aware of the unfortunate demise of an obstetric patient at FMC. However,  I am yet to receive a report from the clinical team at FMC”. 