A Civil Society Organisation (CSO), Campaign for Democracy (CD), has called on the Senate not to abuse the Federal Character Commission (FCC) principles, but should scrutinize the names of nominees brought to them before approval. The group said the nomination of Dr Muheeba Farida Dankaka, from Kwara North central Nigeria is against the federal character principles because the outgoing, substantive chairman of the FCC, Prof Abdul Raheem Oba, is from Ilorin, Kwara state, North Central. To this end, the Campaign for Democracy, called on the Senate to reject the nomination of Dr Muheeba Farida as the new chairman of the Federal Character Commission. A statement issued by the General Secretary of the group, Pastor Ifeanyi Odili, said they are concern about the nomination of Dr Muheeba Farida Dankaka to head an organization that should ensure fairness, equity and justice in all the affairs of the country. “The Campaign for Democracy received the nomination of Dr Muheeba Farida Dankaka, from Kwara state of North central to be confirm as the new chairman of Federal Character Commission (FCC) with serious concern.” “The nomination of Dr Muheeba Farida Dankaka is a violation of the basic principle of federal character. We urge President Buhari not to violate the core value of the commission and philosophy upon which it was founded, “the group said while describing FCC as a federal executive body that was established to implement and enforce the federal character principle of fairness and equity in distribution of public offices and socioeconomic infrastructures among various federating units of Nigeria. “It is disturbing that since the inception of the federal character commission, it has fallen short of its own standard, and consequently made nonsense of the whole concept of the commission, as well as democracy as an institution,” the group said calling on Nigerian leaders to ensure federal character principles in all they do. CD also said it will pass a vote of no confidence on the members of the national assembly if they clear the nominee. The group urged the national assembly to ensure equity, justice and fairness adding that the rubrics and ethos of democracy all over the world is equitable distribution of commonwealth and equal distribution of positions. CD argued that all the three geopolitical zones in the country have held the position of Chairman of the FCC adding that no one from the Southern region have been privilege to occupy the office. 