Ondo State Council of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) led by Comrade Sunday Oluwole  Adeleye, has asked the state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to caution some of his aides over gross misconduct and attempt to oppress the people with paraphernalia of office. Adeleye, in his May 1st address, accused the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the state Governor on Agriculture and Agro Allied Industries, Mr. Akin Olotu, of using his office to oppress workers of the Farmers Congress. He said Olotu activities has led the workers to be owed over 20 month’s salaries arrears. Adeleye said, “Your Excellency, this request has been a recurring one for some years now in every May Day. To say that the staff of the Congress are suffering is an understatement. “Sir. We are using this opportunity again to appeal that this/matter be settled once and for all and arrears of their over 20 months salaries be paid without further delay.” Apart from Olotu, the NLC boss also accused the SSA on Special Duties, Doyin Odebowale, of meddling in the affairs of the Civil Services in the state. Adeleye said the workforce in the state can no longer cope with the way and manner he represents and portends the government to the outside world. According to him, ” No doubt Organised Labour in Ondo State respects and love your administration but,there is a nag which if not checked could bring a friction in the flow of peaceful relation with your office and this government by extension . ” We have observed, endured and condoned enough the excesses of your SSA Special Duties and we are constrained to say, cannot longer cope with the way and manner he represents and portends this government to the outside world. “His meddlesomeness in the Civil Service has to stop Labour in Ondo State is poised for a total show down with him if not checked, Your Excellency.” Reacting the state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, assured the workers that all their request will be look into. Akeredolu implored workers to continue to show high sense of industry and become creative in carrying out their duties. According to the governor, “The times are hard and there is a dire need for us all to start thinking anew on how to diversify our economy from the oil dependence into agriculture, entrepreneurship and industrialisation in order to boost our Internally Generated Revenue. “We can no longer do things in the usual way as the entire world is experiencing a paradigm shift in the approach to work. Digitalisation of work process, artificia intelligence, critical thinking, continuity planning and personal safety and health are now paramount at work place all over the globe.” He, however, advised the workers to begin to brace up and build up skills along these parts so as to remain relevant in the face of evolving realities.