***We are still tracing contacts – Health Comm. The Ebonyi State Commissioner for Internal Security and Border Peace, Hon Stanley Okoro Emegha has confirmed the arrested of one Mr. Mbam James a senior personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) attached to Orumba Umunze in Anambra State and 2 other passenger he smuggled into the State with his motorcycle. In an interview with LEADERSHIP in Abakaliki,  Hon Okoro Emegha noted that the NSCDC personnel who was arrested by the members of the Ebonyi State Neighbourhood Security Watch was arrested at Timber shade axis of the Afikpo/Abakaliki Express road in Afikpo North Local Government Area. According to the Commissioner; “I received a call from members of the Neighbourhood Watch at Afikpo North Local Government Area of a personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps who was carrying two persons in his motorcycle coming to Abakaliki”. “The Neighbourhood Watch members informed me that the man was coming into the state from Orumba Umunze In Anambra State and has already gotten to Afikpo North having passed Ishiagu in Ivo LGA, Oso Edda in Afikpo South LGA and Amasiri in Afikpo North LGA boundaries before he was stopped and arrested at the Timber Shade axis of the express road”. “As part of the state government policy that any indigene of Ebonyi State that gets to the boundary should not be sent back but should be brought to the with-holding center and be quarantined and tested for COVID 19 before he or she would be allowed to go home. So I directed that the NSCDC staff be arrested alongside the two passengers he was carry and brought to Abakaliki”. “On arrival to Abakaliki, when my office questioned him, he disclosed that he is from Ishieke in Ebonyi local government area of the state working in Orumba Umunze in Anambra State. He also disclosed that he picked the two passenger within the State denying that he carried them from Anambra State”. “He informed us that the two youngmen were standing along the express road just after Amasiri junction and when they flagged him down, he identified that they are from the same Ishieke community with him and that was what prompted him to carry them”. “Though we are yet to ascertain the fact of where the two passengers are coming from, we had to immediately move them to the withholding center at the Abakaliki township stadium where they have been quarantined until a test would be carried out on them to ascertain if they have the coronavirus or not”. On how he crossed the 3 boundaries of Ishiagu, Oso Edda and Amasiri before being arrested at the Timber Shade Junction, Hon Okoro Emegha stated that “as a Senior NSCDC personel riding his motorcycle into the state on uniform, it would be difficult for him to be stopped and arrested at the checkpoints, that’s why we still want to ascertain if he carried the passengers from Amambra state or within the state”. Speaking also with Leadership Weekend, the Chairman Afikpo North Local Government Area, Hon Ogbonnaya Oko Enyim express the worry that most times, those arrested usually cross the boundaries of Ishiagu in Ivo LGA and Oso Edda which is a development center in Afikpo South Local Government Area before getting to Amasiri in Afikpo North LGA. Hon Oko Enyim stated that there should be a security beef up at the Ishiagu and Oso Edda boundaries to compliment the effort of those working at the Amasiri and Timber shade checkpoints in Afikpo North LGA adding that concerted effort must continue to be made to curtail the spread of the virus in the state. It would be recalled that just 2days ago, the taskforce team in Afikpo North also intercepted and handed over 6 men who were coming into the state from Uzuakoli in Abia State to the state government team and were taken to the Holding centre at Abakaliki Township Stadium. All effort to get the reaction of the Ebonyi State Commandant of the Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps NSCDC, Lucy Samu proved abortive as all the calls put across to him was not answered. Meanwhile, the Ebonyi State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Daniel Umezurike has said that the state government is still tracing the contact of the police officers and the driver that had contact with the second case of COVID 19 in the state. The commissioner who made the disclosure to Leadership Weekend said that though the state has established contact with a good number of the contact persons, government is still tracing others. He urged the people to remain calm as all those that had contact with the patient would be brought to the with-holding center to be quarantined and tested.