The President of the Southern Kaduna People’s Union, Hon. Jonathan Asake has revealed that over 18 Communities  displaced in chikun local government area of kaduna state as a result of perennial crises and invasion by suspected fulani Herdsmen have so far benefited from the massive food items being distributed to help alleviate their suffering. The Union leader disclosed this on Saturday while distributing the food items as palliative to over 200 vulnerable members due to lockdown orchestrated by covid-19 pandemic. The President said the food items were donated to the Union by spirited individuals for onward distribution to the displaced members in the 18 Communities, orphanages and other IDPs who are facing tough times due to food shortage. He said while they appreciated the efforts made by various faith based organizations, NGOs, CSOs, government and other cooperate organisations toward providing palliatives for members during the lockdown, Asakii said SOKAPU tasked her members to contribute for the vulnerable members because of hardship and tough time brought by the lockdown. Among  he mentioned as donors are the former speaker of house of representative Hon. Yukubu Dogara, Senator representing kaduna South, Sen. Danjuma Laah, other prominent individuals contributed food material, while cash of N3.5 million has so far been donated through a fund raising Committee constituted by the Union. According to him, while the donations are still in progress, the over 200 beneficiaries, including Muslims are said to be the first batch as more beneficiaries are still going to enjoy the palliative. Also, The Union donated Four bags of 50kg of Rice, One bag of 50kg of Beans,  Ten Cartons of Indomie, 3  Cartons of Macoroni  to Mercy Orphanage run by Revd. Tunde Bolanta at Romi the general overseer of Restoration Bible Church, Kaduna. Meanwhile, LEADERSHIP observed that Food items distributed to the vulnerable people include rice, beans, spaghetti, macaroni, corn powder, Cartons of indomie, facemask and hands Sanitizers. The fund raising Committee was headed by former Minister of Environment Mrs Lawrencia Mallam. Beneficiaries interviewed sincerely thanked SOKAPU and prayed that God almighty provide initiators their needs for the initiative and foresight to provide for those of them who have difficulties providing for themselves because of the lockdown