The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has commenced disbursement of its Covid-19 intervention fund to households and businesses. At the take-off of the disbursement to first batch of beneficiaries yesterday, in Abuja, about 3,256 people and businesses benefited. The N50 billion Target Credit Facility for households and small and medium scale enterprises was disbursed through the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank to the beneficiaries that have been particularly hard hit by COVID-19. Speaking during the signing of their offer letters and loan agreement yesterday, managing director/CEO of the NIRSAL Microfinance Bank, Abubakar Kure said the bank intends to conduct weekly disbursement of the credit facility to beneficiaries. He did not mention how much was disbursed in the first batch of the programme. “We hope the amount being disbursed will go a long way to help people to reactivate their businesses; allow people to stay in job; allow the economy to normalise,” the MD said, noting that the lockdown has adversary affected businesses. Asked how many people have so far applied for the CBN funded loan, Kure who failed to disclose the figure simply said “For now the number of applicants is significant. Honestly, it has doubled.” In a media chart two week ago, he had disclosed that about 80,000 applications had been received. “In order to have maximal impact, we intend to ensure disbursements as soon as possible,” he said, adding that the disbursement will go all over the country, “but because of movement restrictions, we have to think outside of the box to see how to engage our applicants so that they can enjoy the facility so that people can stay in job and the economy can grow.” Mr Kure said the documentation process will continue. He explained that the first batch had to be in Abuja alone due to restriction of movement across the country. “We have about 53 branches. As the situation demands, we are open for public for the applicants to fill in their relevant documentation.” The MD/CEO stressed that the facility is not a grant. “It’s a credit facility intended to cushion the effect of Covid-19 that has globally affected businesses.” He said the processing and disbursement of the loan to the applicants is challenged by the restriction of movement across the country. “Incidentally, the reason the fund is established is also the major challenge – there has been restriction of movement of people, businesses have been shut down.