Oilserve Ltd Foundation, the social investment arm of Oilserv Limited, a major player in the oil and gas industry, has donated food and medical supplies worth over N100 million to host communities, states and federal government of Nigeria. The foundation also commended the effort of federal government and the various state governments in their bid to not only find solution to the pandemic and treat patients that have contracted the disease, but in their daunting effort to provide palliative to the teeming populace. In a bid to cushion the effect of the pandemic on the livelihood and health of the host communities in Rivers state as well as support other states and the federal government in the fight against the pandemic, Oilserv Limited in conjunction with the Sir. Emeka Okwuosa foundation donated food stuff and medical supplies worth over N100 million. In Rivers State, a total of 350 bags of rice were distributed to four different host communities namely; Woji (100 bags) Rumuibekwe (100bags) Ogale, Eleme (50 bags) and Uzuaku community in Abia state (100bags). In addition, the company is donating medical supplies worth over seventy million naira which includes disposable face masks; 6,000 nos, FDA approved mask; 1,500 nos, hand gloves; 80 cartons, face shields; 8 cartons containing 500pcs per carton, disposable protective suit; 1200 nos, infrared thermometer; 250 nos, facial and temperature monitor; 5 nos, COVID 19 rapid test kits (15 minutes result) 2500 nos. These materials have been ordered and are arriving this week. The benefitting States are; Rivers, Anambra, Enugu and the Presidential Task Force through the NNPC. Driven by the sheer determination and passion to impact lives positively, The Sir. Emeka Okwuosa Foundation also donated over 3,000 bags of rice and a lorry load of yams (8000 tubers) to families in Oraifite and Ozubulu, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra state to cushion the effect of the Corona Virus and the lockdown in the state. Speaking with the press, Director of the Sir. Emeka Okwuosa foundation; Hon. Azuka Okwuosa said ‘’we believe in the power of humanity to solve any challenge.  The foundation’s contribution to families and communities in Anambra state aligns with our deeply rooted commitment to impacting lives positively and to support the state government against the fight of the Corona Virus at this difficult time’’.