As part of measures to cushion the effect of Covid-19 in Gombe state, Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya has constituted a Special Committee on Relief and Palliatives under the Chairmanship of His Royal Highness, the Emir of Gombe and Chairman State Council of Emirs and Chiefs, Alh. (Dr.) Abubakar Shehu Abubakar III. The Secretary to the state Government, Professor Ibrahim Abubakar Njodi announced the appointment of the committee in a statement he issued today. The 38- member committee has the Emirs of Dukku, Yamaltu and Mai Tangle as members. Others are Hon. Adamu Pata, Hon. Shuaibu Adamu and Hon.Samuel Markus; members of Gombe state House of Assembly. Also to serve as members are Commissioners for Local Government & Chieftaincy Affairs, Internal Security & Ethical Orientation and Representative of SEMA. Also Alh Damina Sardauna, Special Adviser on Chieftaincy Affairs; Hon. Auwalu Abdullahi Gafaka, Special Adviser on Community relations & Ethical Orientation;  Mr. Nitte Amangal, Alh. Danjuma Babayo, Alh. Sanusi Abdullahi and Mrs. Margaret Yusuf are members. The committee also has the Representative of Jama’atu Nasril Islam, JNI,  Sheik Adamu Girbo, Sheik Usman IsahTaliyawa, Sheik Adamu Mohammed Dokoro, Alhaji Jauro Bappi,  Representative of Christian Association of Nigeria CAN  and  Rev. Sunday Congo as members. Also the Representative of Civil Society Organisations (IbrahimYusuf 3000) , Alh. Adamu Malala , Alh. Ali Usman, Alh. Isiyaku Abdullahi, Mrs. Finey David, Hajiya Uwani Shuaibu Gara, Hajiya Dijatu Bappa, Muazzammil Yahaya and Hajiya Zainab Amin are members. The list also has Representatives of the Nigerian Police, Nigerian Civil Defence Corps, Department of State Service (DSS) and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The Commissioner of Special Duties, Barr. Mela Nunghe is to serve as Secretary while Mr. Benjamen Wabida, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Special Duties serves as Assistant Secretary. According to the statement, the Committee will be inaugurated by His Excellency, Governor Inuwa Yahaya tomorrow, Saturday, 2nd May, 2020, at the New Banquette Hall, Government House by 11:00am prompt. 