Last week, there was pandemonium in the Niger-Delta over death of fishes washed ashore. In this report, YUSUF BABALOLA examines the role of NIMASA in bringing down the tension in the region In the last few days, Niger Delta states have been awash with reports of shoals of dead fish washed ashore along the Niger Delta coastline states of Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, and Rivers, and other places within the region. The dead fishes have caused pandemonium among the residents of these Niger-Delta states especially at a time when the country is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. According to stakeholders, the consumption of the dead fishes washed ashore may spark outbreak of a fresh disease in the Niger Delta region. NIMASA Steps In However, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has cautioned Nigerians against consumption of the dead fishes saying it has commenced a scientific inquiry to identify the cause of the death. NIMASA has the mandate to regulate and protect the country’s marine environment as provided for in the Merchant Shipping Act 2007 and in compliance with the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 (MARPOL 1973/78), and other relevant instruments aimed at protecting the maritime domain. The agency also warned the fisherfolk in the affected areas, about the dangers of consuming or selling the dead fish to unsuspecting members of the public. Director-general of NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh, said, “We are working with relevant scientific experts to isolate the cause of the abnormal issue of dead fish along the Niger Delta coastline. We want to identify the cause and establish what can be done to alleviate the adverse effect of this occurrence on the people and the marine environment in the affected areas. “While we are working to decipher and mitigate this strange incident, we appeal to locals in the affected communities and those who trade in aquatic animals to avoid consumption and sale of the dead fish, as such acts may carry criminal liabilities, especially with regard to deliberate sale of the dead fish to the public.” Jamoh said the tripodal investigation would involve an examination of the dead fish as well as water and sediment analyses. Environmentalist Lists Alleged Cause An environmentalist, Mr Furoebi Akene, has alleged that the dead fishes littering Niger Delta coastline were caused by the discharge of toxic chemicals from Shell’s operations at Forcados Oil Export terminal. Akene, who is the chairman, Board of Trustees, Centre for Environmental Preservation and Development (CEPAD), said in Yenagoa that there was no oil spills linking the massive death of fishes floating near the Atlantic coastline in Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers and Akwa Ibom. Agreeing with National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) that the dead fishes were not caused by oil leakage, he, however, said the disclosure was capable of misleading conclusions as the investigation results were being awaited by stakeholders. Akene further alleged that Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) always discharged toxic materials in the Atlantic off Delta coastline at Ogulagha. “It has also become a common knowledge that the SPDC discharges sludge mixed with chemicals into the waters of the Atlantic Ocean. The discharge through one of their waste disposals pipes from the Forcados Terminal around Ogulagha and not oil spill from any of the trunk line pipes conveying crude oil from the Forcados terminal is the problem. “NOSDRA in its position shows it is making all efforts to downplay the act and divert attention. Not only the belated nature of the response but the premature position while the results are awaited is intended to shield or conceal the real cause of the matter, the facility that caused it and the owners of the facility. “This is quite unfortunate of a regulation agency. We are using this medium to appeal to NOSDRA to do the right thing as they are statutorily mandated to do,” Akene further said, tasking the governments, National and State Assembly members of the affected states, comprising Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Ondo to rise up to their responsibilities and pursue this matter to a logical conclusion for the lives of their citizens.  NOSDRA Partners NIMASA To Unravel Death Of Fishes However, in a reaction, Mr Idris Musa, the director-general of NOSDRA, dismissed the claims and restated the agency’s commitment to its mandate and stringent regulation of the maritime domain within Nigerian territorial waters. Musa stated that NOSDRA was coordinating a multi-agency investigation aimed at unraveling the cause of the massive death of fishes within the nation’s territorial waters and was looking beyond the oil spill. He said other regulatory agencies with mandates of safety in the maritime space, were deploying their expertise in the ongoing investigation, assuring that the process was being carried out with best practices. “The death of fishes in large numbers make it expedient to look beyond oil spillage as the likely cause, as we found no trace of oil leakage to link with the dead fishes. The agency proceeded to collect samples of water, sediments and some of the dead fish for laboratory testing. ”In doing so, the agency brought onboard other relevant agencies of government that have mandate on our territorial waters. “In particular, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian Institute of Oceanography and Marine Research (NIOMR), Federal Institute of Fisheries Research and National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA). ”This is for all hands to be on deck in assessment of the possible cause or causes of death of the fishes in such large numbers,” Musa said. The NOSDRA director-general, stated that the results of ongoing laboratory analysis would be compared with results from the participating agencies to profer effective solution and ensure stringent regulations in future. He said it was situations like this that informed the agency’s limitations to the use of chemical dispersants in the water bodies near human settlements. Musa said that NOSDRA remained committed to a sustainable environment.  Lawmaker Calls for Thorough Investigation Meanwhile, a member of the House of Representatives from Rivers State, Rep. Farah Dagogo, (PDP, Rivers), has warned federal officials saddled with unraveling the circumstances that has led to the death of fishes along the Niger Delta coastline to do a thorough job devoid of any cover-up. Dagogo, who represents Degema/Bonny Federal Constituency of Rivers State, made this known on Monday via a statement , describing the incident as ‘colossal’ with a calamitous consequences for the socio-economic lives of both the citizens and affected states of the Niger Delta. “My attention, as the Representative of Degema / Bonny Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives from Rivers State, has been drawn to the catastrophic death of fishes around the Niger Delta coastline by my constituents and other persons from neighbouring Niger Delta states. I use this medium to state inter allia, that: “The death of the fishes in our coastal waterways is colossal and has severe implications on the socio-economic development of our people in particular and the states of Rivers, Bayelsa, Akwa Ibom, and Delta in general. The federal lawmaker said though he has been monitoring the response and activities of the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA), since the incident occured, he disclosed that preliminary investigation conducted by him suggests a possible toxicity of the Atlantic Ocean by major oil and gas companies operating within that domain. “Their death may be as a consequence of pollution caused by the oil and gas companies operating in the region or other associated factors as noted by some environmentalists, or likely as a result of increasing toxicity of the Atlantic ocean, which the primary investigation I conducted indicate. And it can also be all of the aforementioned. “In view of the calamitous consequences this strange incident portends, especially on the socio – economic lives of both the citizens and the affected Niger Delta states, I urge my constituents to be law abiding and continue to maintain peace in order to allow for meaningful engagements with the state Institutions and the oil and gas companies, whose activities directly impact on the coastline. “Towards achieving the above, therefore, I call for the Inter-institutional investigation of the matter, with empirical studies to ascertain the causes of the hydrophobic incidence and possible options for putting it at bay. “Consequently, I am closely monitoring the current actions being taken by the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) and urge the agency to be unwavering in its attempt to unravel the truth and present a result that would be accepted within the global community, as no cover up in whatever disguise would be tolerated. “Further to the foregoing, we urge the federal government to transparently audit the matter, and if any body, corporate, or otherwise is found wanting, such a body be sanctioned in line with Nigerian and international laws. “In the event that urgent actions are not taken to address this ugly imbroglio, I have been in serious discussions with my fellow members, from the Niger Delta region and other zones, on the best approach to apply all legislative means to ensure that our constituents do not suffer epidemic and further financial loss as a result of this development, “he added.  Stakeholders Call For Caution Meanwhile, a former president of the Nigerian Trawler Owners Association (NITOA) and chairman Ship Owners Forum, Mrs Margaret Orakwusi, has called for massive public campaigns on need for people to stay away from harvesting and eating the dead Croaker fishes washed ashore in a number of coastal communities in the Niger Delta states. She said it had become expedient for government structures in the local areas concerned to embark on sustained enlightenment of the people to keep them away from a possible health risk in eating the dead fishes. She added that besides investigations by the oceanography and fisheries institutes, the Navy, which ensures security at sea should also be called in to possibly identify what causes could have led to the dead fishes on the shores of the communities. She said: “I know the Institute of Oceanography, Department of Fisheries would have started scientific investigations. But the work lies within the people who are very close to governance, which are the local and state governments. “The Nigerian Navy should also be involved, because they should be able to identify if someone had come to dump toxic waste. But I will rely on the scientific investigations that would show what caused the specie of fish to die. It is amazing because it is only a specie of croaker. If it is poison, it should kill more than one specie. We need to investigate and know exactly what has happened because it is an unusual occurrence. “Fishing trawler owners are not afraid the incident would disrupt their operations, because they do regular analysis of waters where they fish miles away at deep sea, like from five nautical miles into the waters,” she said. Orakwusi added that in further effort to thorough investigations on likely causes of the deaths of the fishes, “We have told our captains that on their way back they should collect water sample, because we will not allow them take that fish into the trawler. “Once the chemical composition of the water sample is analysed, results will begin to show. So, we have to know what has happened really. Or could it be that a big vessel came to dump a product in our waters?” she queried. In conclusion, all the experts spoken to by LEADERSHIP agree that inter-agency cooperation championed by NIMASA would unravel the cause of the death of the Croaker fishes washed ashore in the Niger Delta coastal waters very soon based on undisputed scientific analysis of the maritime bodies.