When the Coronavirus pandemic hit Nigeria, I was exceptionally worried about a number of cities, Lagos was one of them, Onitsha the market city was another and Kano was not only on that list, it was the most  ranked city  on that list. True to my thinking, the recent news about strange deaths occurring within the state seems to have cast my forecast as a bulls eye, because whether it is 150, more or less than the figure, Kano has suddenly leapfrogged the total number of cases and probably deaths so far recorded since the pandemic set foot on the nation’s shores and this it seems is just the beginning. Despite the fact that we are yet to determine the real number of those who died as well as establish the causes of the deaths, the circumstances of such deaths ought to leave every human worried; what if it is a new disease, or the Coronavirus itself or as stated by the state government Malaria, fever, hypertension, diabetes or fever and typhoid as well as the consumption of poisonous rice as some have argued, whatever it is, it is imperative that Nigerians all over ask salient questions in order to put a check on such reoccurring further. This is because of the role Kano State plays in the Nigerian economy. It is the 5th largest economy in Nigeria and the most industrialized state in Northern Nigeria as well as the most populous in the nation. All these attributes naturally ought to leave one much worried. Moreso, Kano’s population, population density, lack of quality healthcare facilities, high rate of poverty as well as its reputation as having the highest number of out of school children which could plausibly point to the fact that there portends to be a high illiteracy rate in the state. Examining the stories around the deaths, I will automatically exclude the assertion in certain quarters that the reasons for these deaths are as a result of the consumption of poisonous rice. This argument needs not arise as it is not only in Kano that such rice was shared, how then is it only in Kano that these deaths via the alleged “poisonous” rice are been recorded. Yes, one is aware that the Oyo State government has also gone to press over what it calls poisonous rice, but then it is the only state to have done so. Given the fact that the state is in the opposition tends much to undermine such complaint, though that ought not to be the case, however, the response of the Nigerian Customs that officials of the Oyo State government inspected the rice and were  satisfied with the conditions  it found the rice in seals Oyo State’s case. I will then turn to the allusion that it is a strange disease, perhaps stranger than COVID 19 and that the city of Kano might be the globe’s next Wuhan, by exporting a pandemic to the whole world. This is again plausible, but then, should such a new killer disease not bear its own novel symptoms?  Since it’s allegedly not COVID-19 nor looks like any of the known killer diseases, we expect that such a new disease possess its own attributes, until we are furnished with evidence of such, we can only dance in the realms of speculation, a dance neither supported by science nor logic Perhaps we are looking at the collaboration of diseases such as malaria, fever, hypertension, diabetes typhoid, dysentery, diarrhea, cholera and what have you as the causative factors of these number of deaths. Prior to this period, it is a given fact that mortality rates in Kano are basically high; with a mix of poor hygiene standards, poverty and  illiteracy, it is no wonder that such rates would be high, most especially now that we are entering the phase of the year when infections from malaria and other diseases mentioned here are high. Again figures gotten from the various major hospitals in Kano showed an average of 30 deaths per day in a hospital such as Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, numbers from other hospitals are heart rendering. Thus it could be that these deaths are normal and certain persons for reasons best known to them are merely crying havoc with the sordid intention to let slip in this case the dogs of propaganda. The Kano State government has come out to downplay such deaths alleging that such deaths were as a result of malaria, fever, hypertension and diabetes, in doing so it gave its own COVID 19  figures, but given the fact that the Nigerian authorities are most notorious for downplaying figures and accounts of events, one naturally ought to take the Kano State government’s position with a pinch of salt. 