The Ebonyi State Governor Chief David Umahi have confirmed two more cases of Covid-19 in Ebonyi State bringing the total number of cases within 2 weeks to 5. Governor Umahi who made the disclosure last night in a telephone interview with the Ebonyi State COVID 19 situation room, an update programme on Coronavirus. The Governor who stated that the 4th case who is a 22 year old boy who returned from Ojo in Lagos state had the virus while the fifth case got the virus from the third case at the Pa Oruta Ngele Stadium Abakaliki holding area. According to the Governor, “I want to announce that we have a 4th and 5th case of COVID 19 in Ebonyi state,  4th case is a 22 year old boy who lives in Ojo Lagos State just like the 3rd case. He left Lagos on the 15th of April and entered Ebonyi through Nkalagu border and from there entered bus to Ezzamgbo junction”. The Governor noted that “thereafter, he entered bus from Ezzamgbo junction to Effuim where he entered Okada to Ishieke before he was caught by security who intercepted him and brought him to the stadium on the 27th of April”. He stated that by the directive of government his sample was collected from him and by Saturday evening, it turned out to be positive. Governor Umahi pointed out that the patient has been removed from the Isolation center Staduim to the treatment center at Unity square Abakaliki. On the fifth case, Governor Umahi said she returned to Awgu in Umuobuna in Uburu Ohaozara local government area with her family from Énugu where she resides but was brought to the holding area in Abakaliki in line with the policy of the state government that anyone who comes in from outside the state must be tested “The fifth case is a 24 years old girl who is a hair dresser from Awgu in Umuobuna in Uburu in Ohaozara local government area.  She resides at No 30 Queens close Ọkpara Avenue in Enugu” “She returned with her family members on 27th April 2020 to Awgu Uburu, she was picked from Uburu and was taken to the staduim. She had contact with the 3rd case and this evening her result came out and she tested positive”. “The family members that she came back with from Enugu were also picked from Uburu and they all tested negative”. He, however stated that the family members would be retained at the isolation center in Abakaliki adding that he has also directed the Medical team to go for contact tracing of all the fifth patients contacts in Uburu. The Governor while urging the people to remain vigilant urged them not to panic as the state government was doing all in its power to prevent spread. He commended some local government Chairman who he said are doing well in effectively manning their borders. The Governor also lamented the seriousness of others warning that there will be dire consequences for such persons after the war on the pandemic is over. He said all the confirmed cases are doing well at the isolation centre. “In the next one week, I am sure that they will be cleared to go home after they must have tested negative twice”, he said.