…declares nursing mother who tested positive ‘wanted for treatment’ …to commence 2nd round of palliatives’ distribution to vulnerable persons The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has extended the dusk-to-dawn curfew in the state by 14 days, effective from Thursday, April 30, 2020, as part of renewed measures to halt the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19). Obaseki, who disclosed this during a press briefing at Government House, in Benin City, said the extension of curfew, will further help the state restrict movement of persons to check the spread of the deadly virus. The governor also expressed appreciation to Edo people for their cooperation and compliance to the curfew in the last ten days, adding, “I am extending the curfew in Edo State for another 14 days from 8pm to 6am.” He disclosed that one Mrs. Amaka Okoro, a nursing mother, who lives at No. 2 Ator Idubor Street, off 2nd Ugbor, was wanted for treatment after she tested positive for COVID-19 and has since been unreachable. The governor said Mrs. Okoro’s baby has already started coughing, urging those with useful information about her whereabouts to report to the relevant security and health agencies. Noting that the extension of curfew will lead to more economic hardship, Governor Obaseki said the state government has decided to commence another round of distribution of relief materials to our most vulnerable persons. ‘With the lessons which we have learnt from the first round of distribution, measures have been put in place to make sure that only the targeted persons receive these palliatives,” he added. On efforts to check the spread of the virus, he said, “Since my last public update on the pandemic about ten days ago, I am here to inform you that we have made tremendous progress especially in the areas of screening, testing and improved awareness of the citizens about the virus. “Working closely with private hospitals, clinics and pharmacists, we have been able to screen over 20,000 people and tested 297 residents. The increased screening and testing is the reason for the increase in the number of positive cases. We are aggressively pushing to screen our minimum target of 500,000 persons and test about 1 percent of that, which is about 5,000 residents in the next few weeks.” “As we increase testing, we are likely to see rise in the number of cases from Edo State. Of the over 20,000 persons we have screened, and the 297 samples which we have collected for testing, we have recorded 37 confirmed cases as at today, discharged 9 persons and unfortunately lost 3 people. “It is noteworthy that late testing was a strong contributory factor leading to the fatality recorded in Edo. This is why I advise everyone to come out and get screened at the numerous screening centres across the state, so that you can save your family and friends from the agony and pain.” Obaseki also praised health workers on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19 for their roles, noting, “I wish to specially thank our health workers who are making sacrifices for the benefit of all of us. In addition to the state-backed health insurance and life insurance packages which I have approved, I have also approved an additional hazard allowance ranging from N90, 000 to N300, 000 per month based on the cadre of all health workers currently actively joining us in the fight against COVID-19.” The governor urged private healthcare providers to support the government’s efforts by offering their facilities for screening. He also appealed to politicians to eschew their political differences and join the state government to save lives of Edo people.