As Nigeria and some African countries consider easing their lockdown measures put in place to contain COVID-19, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned that if governments abruptly relax the restrictions, the continent may lose the gains made so far against the global pandemic. The world health body noted that even though some countries have commenced easing lockdowns, it was important to maintain strong surveillance, case finding and testing, among other control measures to halt the pandemic. “National and regional lockdowns have helped to slow down the spread of COVID, but it remains a considerable public health threat. Lockdowns are being eased in some parts of Africa, but we cannot just revert back to how things were before the outbreak. If governments abruptly end these measures, we risk losing the gains countries have made so far against COVID-19,” WHO’s regional director for Africa, Dr Matshidiso Moeti, cautioned yesterday. He pointed out that to date, Africa has more than 36 000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and over 1500 deaths, with West and Central Africa posing as regions of concern. “So far there are 11 000 cases in West and Central Africa, and 300 people have died. In the week of 13 April, cases increased by 113% in Central Africa and 42% in West Africa”, Moeti noted. In the same vein, the Centrum Initiative For Development And Fundamental Right Advocacy (CEDRA) said yesterday that federal government’s decision to reopen Abuja on Monday was not a product of rigorous assessment of the situation. It noted that concrete steps may not have been taken to avoid endangering lives of workers and people living in Abuja and neighbouring states. Chairman of CEDRA, Dr John Danfulani, who said the NGO was not an apostle of doom and negativity warned that the decision to reopen Abuja will surely boomerang. He said, “We saw how similar speed of reopening in Germany and other advanced countries converted gains gotten from their initial lockdowns to gargantuan nightmares. “We counsel that decisions bordering management of covid-19 be surrendered to scientists not politicians and businessmen. The later creams have proven to be incapable of taking decisions that make sense scientifically and empirically. Their core interests are political aggrandisement, exploitation and primitive accumulation”.  NPHCDA Trains 200,000 To Curb Community Transmission Meanwhile, as part of efforts to curb community transmission of COVID 19 in the country, the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA) has said it is training over 200,000 primary healthcare workers nationwide. The agency said that the training was aimed at equipping primary healthcare workers with the appropriate knowledge and skills to carry out their tasks in the era of COVID-19, as well as protecting PHC workers, clients and communities from contracting the disease, while ensuring the safe, free flow of the other PHC services, such as immunization, antenatal services and child delivery. It added that the over 200,000 personnel will be cascaded to the lowest levels in the 36 states of the federation and the FCT. Addressing the facilitators and trainees in Abuja, the Executive Director/CEO of NPHCDA, Dr Faisal Shuaib, said that the agency sensed the possibility of community transmission of the virus early in the day and had prepared documents on PHC preparedness and response to COVID-19 which were shared with all the relevant stakeholders across the 36 states and the FCT. According to him, the training will help to halt community transmission and to ensure the free flow of quality PHC services, following all safety measures in line with the guidelines and protocol of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the Federal Ministry of Health and National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC). On his part, the minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, emphasised the need to have the primary healthcare workers trained and sensitised because they are the first port of call and contact in the communities.  FG Expresses Worry Over Rising COVID-19 Cases In kANO The federal government yesterday expressed worry over the rising number of COVID -19 cases in Kano State. Speaking during the daily briefing of the Presidential Task Force ( PTF) on Covid -29, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said global trends show that the situation indicates the discovery of previously undetected cases and creates greater opportunities for detection, isolation, care and management. Mustapha who is chairman of the PTF said the taskforce remains committed to containing the spread of the virus in Nigeria and would always be ready to provide specific and necessary support to any state as an objective of the national response. He said, “In line with the above, I wish to inform you that our response to the situation in Kano is producing expected outcomes since testing was ramped up. “The State Task Force in collaboration with our team has also expanded contact tracing and isolation. A lot of emphasis is being placed on training of different categories of manpower (medical, nursing, cleaners, etc), building of capacity for coordination, care management and supply chain. In a bid to contain the spread of the pandemic in the state, the federal government has sent a multi-sectoral team of specialists to Kano to support the state. Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, who stated this at the daily briefing on COVID 19, yesterday in Abuja, said the main focus of the intervention is on training and capacity building of state healthcare workforce along various specialties on a massive scale According to him, the team comprises the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA), Department of Hospital Services, Department of Family Health, Infectious disease specialists from Irrua, media, among others. On case management, he said medical, nursing and cleaning staff shall be trained or re-trained, adding that the NPHCDA will engage its extensive Kano State network to drive testing demand at grassroots through community mobilisation so that NCDC testing strategy can be realised.  Stop Stigmatising COVID-19 Patients, Ganduje Warns Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, yesterday called on the people of the state to stop the stigmatization of COVID 19 patients. He maintained that stigmatising patients with the virus would not augur well in building the confidence of people who were infected and later recovered from the dreaded virus. Ganduje dropped the warning when he inaugurated a seven-man Kano COVID-19 professional support group saddled with the responsibility of monitoring the spread of the virus in the state. Ganduje said the committee members made up of professionals from different background were sons and daughters of Kano State who willingly volunteered to help fight the spread of coronavirus in the state.