As fear grips civil servants over a possible loss of jobs in the federal civil service following a presidential directive to commence the process of merging and scrapping ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), the federal government has calmed frayed nerves, saying there is no need to panic. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajiya Zainab Ahmed, had in an interview session with Channels Television on Wednesday said President Muhammadu Buhari has already instructed the head of civil service (HoS) and secretary to the government of the federation (SGF) to review the recommendations of the Stephen Oronsaye presidential panel report on MDAs and make recommendations to government on modalities for the merger/scrapping of the MDAs. The 800-page Oronsaye-led committee report that was presented to the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan is centered on restructuring and rationalisation of federal government parastatals, commissions and agencies with a focus on cutting cost of governance. As part of efforts towards cutting the cost of governance, the Buhari administration is said to have approved the immediate merger of 102 federal agencies in line with recommendations of the Oronsaye report. The agencies under consideration in the report were grouped into six categories of recommendation as follows: merger, abolishment, self-funding, commercialisation, privatisation and staff audit/management. The minister’s statement on Wednesday had triggered panic, with many civil servants pointing to the possibility of massive job loss, especially as the country grapples with health challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and the sharp decline in revenue to government due to fall in oil prices. But she told LEADERSHIP Friday yesterday that, while government was determined to trim federal bureaucracy and cost of governance, it would not in any way affect jobs of civil servants. Hajiya Ahmed said the merger and scrapping of the MDAs would be determined by the SGF and HoS. Also, in an interview with LEADERSHIP Friday, special adviser on media and communications to the minister, Yunusa Tanko Abdullahi, said downsizing had never been the priority of the Buhari administration from inception till date. He said, “The two arms will have to come up with a white paper on it but before then the status quo stands. There is no law that says when you merge you will lay off staff. Laying off of staff has not featured in the minister’s presentation now or at any time”. He confirmed that the president has approved that his administration should implement the recommendations of the Oronsaye report. He noted: “So, the Oronsaye report is a report that has reviewed the whole size of government and has made significant recommendations in terms of trimming and that is reducing the number of agencies and that would mean merging some agencies together. “And this is a report that has been in place for a long time but hasn’t been implemented but the president has approved that it should be implemented and we have conveyed Mr President’s approval  to the arm of government that is responsible for this and that will be the office of SGF and the office of the HoS”.  We’re Still Studying Report Says NLC The president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba, told LEADERSHIP Friday that labour was still studying the report and will respond appropriately. Also, the Nigeria Civil Service Union (NCSU), the umbrella body of civil servants, said it will ensure that workers’ rights are protected. In response to a text by our reporter, president of the union, Comrade Lawrence Ameachi said, “We will request to be joined in the implementation committee so as to protect our members from being sacked.”  Labour Marks Workers’ Day Without Fanfare In 40 Years For the first time since the first May Day was celebrated in Nigeria in 1980, workers will not be having the usual fanfare such as street parades and march past that usually characterise the event due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Instead, the organised labour has said it will mark the day with symbolic visits to frontline workers and a virtual address by presidents of both the Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress (TUC). According to president of the NLC, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, given the current lockdown and in line with global realities, this year’s May Day will be observed in low key. He said, “We have, however, earmarked a number of symbolic events, including solidarity visits and gestures to our incredibly brave frontline workers. We will find innovative ways to ensure that all Nigerian workers receive our 2020 May Day message.” The TUC president, Comrade Quadri Olaleye, in his address expressed concerns over the plight of workers amidst the COVID-19 pandemic. He said this year’s May Day would be an unusual one as it coincides with a period the world is facing extinction if care was not taken. He however expressed concern over loss of jobs consequent upon the COVID-19, urging government to protect the workers from some uncharitable employers. He said, “Workers should not be made victims of COVID-19. Similarly, it has been brought to our knowledge that some employers are saying they cannot pay salaries for the duration of the COVID-19 lockdown. It is evil and inhuman to come up with such decision. This is the time individuals and organizations should show that workers are partners in progress. “Truth be said; the last four months have been a traumatizing one throughout the world. No race or colour was spared. The most powerful nations felt it. There was a total lockdown. Religious bodies held services online seeking God’s face concerning the pandemic. We cannot really ascertain the total number of deaths but we know it is hundreds of thousands. It was a period that nothing else really counted, except our lives. But we trust in God to protect us. “Our concern today is how we can survive COVID – 19 and build a political economy that will keep our country out of imminent recession. We advocate reduction of food and drug prices to enable Nigerians who survived the pandemic to recuperate well.” The TUC president also said it was unfair for some employers to abruptly stop payment of gratuity without carrying the workers along.  2020 May Day Most Precarious – Issa Aremu The vice president of IndustriALL Global Union, Comrade Issa Aremu, has described this year’s May Day celebration as most precarious and dangerous. IndustriALL, an international union confederation comprising approximately 600 unions in 140 countries, was set up to defend workers’ rights, build union power and confront global capital. Aremu noted that celebrating Workers’ Day amidst the COVID-19 pandemic was strange to workers, even as he observed that in the past 40 years, this was the first May Day without open manifestations. “This is because a precarious unseen coronavirus, (COVID-19) kills humans and threatens jobs, incomes and livelihoods of the working people in general,” he stated. He, however, paid special tribute to workers in all sectors for joining the global struggle and resistance against coronavirus which he described as ubiquitous deadly disease with all its negative impacts on jobs and wellbeing. Aremu continued: “Happily, we have a global union with vision. IndustriALL has strategic tools to cope with all challenges, including that of the COVID-19 pandemic. The first tool is to advance workers’ rights. “The immediate is the right to life. We salute all frontline workers. Labour not only creates wealth but saves lives. Coronavirus has no cure for now; only preventions through personal and industrial hygiene.”  We’ll Amend  Anti-labour Laws – Senate Meanwhile, Senate president, Ahmad Lawan, yesterday assured Nigerian workers that the 9th Assembly would get rid of anti-labour laws. Lawan, while felicitating with Nigerian workers as they join their counterparts in the world to mark Workers’ Day today, said they legislature is ever ready to work in collaboration with the organised labour unions to rid the statute books of any anti-labour laws. He congratulated Nigerian workers for sustaining their heroic struggle for the liberation of the country from poverty and underdevelopment even in the face of the daunting challenges at various work places. The Senate president, in a statement signed by his special adviser on media, Ola Awoniyi, acknowledged the role of workers as the creator of wealth in the society and stressed that it is for this reason that they should be appreciated at all times. He stated: “The best way to appreciate the enormous contributions of the Nigerian workers is to always consider their welfare as of utmost importance. “As a legislature, we are ever ready to work in collaboration with the organised labour Unions to rid our statute books of any anti-labour laws,” Lawan said. Lawan further said as part of the effort of the ninth National Assembly to strengthen the economy and improve the standard of living of the people, the federal legislature is determined to make the country’s financial year predictable through timely passage of the 2020 budget. He noted that the National Assembly had in the same respect made critical amendments to some laws to ensure smooth implementation of the budget, adding that the legislature would continue to move relentlessly in that direction despite the unforeseen challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Senate president regretted that this year’s celebration of Workers’ Day was coming at a time the entire world was facing the health emergency brought about by the Coronavirus pandemic. Lawan said the resilience and never-die spirit of the Nigerian people will boost the efforts of the government to overcome the pandemic.  Prepare For Post-COVID-19 World, APC Tells Workers Also, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged Nigerian workers to use the COVID-19 lockdown period to equip themselves with information and skills to enhance their productivity in the changing world. The party further acknowledged the efforts and commitment of Nigerian workers in nation building, even as it called for continuous partnership with the APC-led administration at the centre. APC national publicity secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, said this in a statement in Abuja yesterday while felicitating with Nigerian workers on the 2020 International Workers’ Day. He noted: “We enjoin Nigerian workers to use the lockdown to equip themselves with information and skills that will enable them productively function in the changing global work culture. “And tap into opportunities that the eventual and gradual easing of the lockdown will bring. The APC acknowledges the tireless efforts, resilience, patience and commitment of the Nigerian worker in the onerous task of nation building”. The party assured the workers that the federal government would continue to prioritise their welfare. It continued: “The APC also assures that President Muhammadu Buhari is putting all necessary measures in place to ensure that workers and, indeed, all Nigerians are not negatively impacted from the economic effects of the pandemic now and in the future. No doubt, the COVID-19 pandemic has created unprecedented disruption in our normal lives, particularly work. “However, the long-term consequences of the pandemic, how it will reshape our work culture, ways of doing business, provision of services and new opportunities — are still difficult to imagine. “We urge workers not to relent in their support for this administration as we battle COVID-19, in addition to getting the nation’s economy back on its trajectory of growth as quickly as possible”.  PDP Hails Workers’ Patriotism, Resilience On its part, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) hailed Nigerian workers for their sacrifices towards the wellbeing of the nation, especially those at the frontline against the spread and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The party said this in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, saluting Nigerian workers on the occasion of this year’s Workers’ Day celebration, which it described as the life force of the nation. The party commended “Nigerian workers for their sacrifices towards the wellbeing of our nation, particularly at this critical time, when many of them are on the front line against the spread and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in our country. “The PDP hails the resilience of workers in the health and other essential services, who have continued to exhibit unequalled patriotism, despite the daunting challenges, in the overall effort to mitigate the health, economic and social impacts of the scourge. These citizens are indeed our national heroes”, the party added. PDP noted that Nigerian workers have continued to work hard in every sector to ensure the unity, stability and economic growth of the nation as well as standing as a strong voice for the entrenchment of equity, social justice and rule of law in the polity. The party lamented that the 2020 Workers Day came at a time when the world was on lockdown over the COVID-19 pandemic, noting however that such does not detract from the essence of the celebration. The PDP urged workers not to deter in their commitment towards nation building, even as it wished them a happy Workers’ Day celebration.  Aviation Workers Union Seeks Bailout, Palliatives Meanwhile, the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE) has appealed to the federal government to come to the aid of aviation companies and agencies. The union, while claiming that aviation industry is about the worst hit by the covid-19 pandemic, stated that the sector runs a very high risk of total collapse without government intervention or bailout, in one form or another. National president of NUATE, Comrade Ben Nnabue, who made the appeal yesterday in his May Day 2020 address also called on the managements of various organisations whose staff are engaged in essential services, and who have to risk their lives and strain their meagre resources to find their ways to work under high transportation costs, to pay commensurate palliatives/incentives as a matter of necessity. Nnabue said, “We therefore hope that government will not only listen to our plea but will accord priority and urgency to the aviation sector in respect of the expected intervention. In this regard, we expect also that the handling of workers welfare will play significant role in the extent of access by the companies to the bailout measures. “We have appealed to the managements of all our partner organisations to allow the humanity in them come afore at this time of human tragedy. We urge them to deep hands into their sinking funds and assure continuity of income for their workers – you, our members”.  FG Approves Partial Resumption Of Work For Senior Public Servants Meanwhile, the federal government yesterday directed officers on Grade Level 14 and above as well as those on essential services to resume work with effect from Monday, May 4. Dr Folasade Yemi–Esan, Head of Civil Service of the Federation, gave the directive in a statement signed by director of Information her office, Mrs Olawunmi Ogunmosunle. The directive, according to Yemi-Esan, is furtherance to President Muhammadu Buhari’s broadcast on a phased and gradual easing of the lockdown measures occasioned by COVID-19. According to the directive, offices are to work three times a week, precisely on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and close at 2:00 p.m. on each day. Yemi-Esan said, “The concerned officers are to ensure full compliance with the directives and advice on the prevention of the COVID-19 pandemic. “These measures include maintenance of social distancing, regular washing and/or sanitising of hands and wearing of face masks. “Officers are to limit the number of visitors they receive to the barest minimum, they should also ensure that the visitors comply with safety and health advices/ directives”. She also advised permanent secretaries and chief executive officers to ensure that hand washing and sanitation facilities are placed at entrances and strategic points in their ministries, departments and agencies. “Infrared thermometers are to be provided at the entrance of the MDAs for compulsory temperature checks while, as much as practicable, the entrance to the MDAs is limited to only one. It will be noted that the Federal Secretariat Complexes have been decontaminated while efforts are ongoing to do same in other public offices,” she said.  