As part of this year’s May Day celebration, organised labour comprising the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Comgress (TUC) as well as employers of labour under the aegis of Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) have challenged the federal and state governments to take measures to revamp the economy after COVID-19 with a view to preventing mass loss of jobs. In his May Day address yesterday, NLC president, Ayuba Wabba said there was genuine reason to worry about possible threats to job retention both in the public and private sectors of the economy after the COVID-19 pandemic. Wabba noted that in a middle-income country like Nigeria, the hard-hit sectors which are the informal sector and semi-informal sectors of the economy represent a high proportion of workers with non-fixed contracts of employment and with limited access to health services and social protection. The NLC president commended the House of Representatives for passing the Emergency Economic Stimulus Bill which seeks to provide fifty per cent tax rebate for employers and business owners who agree to retain existing staff in 2020. He observed that, while the bill aims to prevent job losses in the formal sector, the exclusion of informal workers from benefitting from the bill should be quickly addressed, especially given that over 70 per cent of Nigeria’s workforce and businesses actually operate in the informal sector. He said, “The Central Bank of Nigeria has also proposed a $US3.5 billion as bailout stimulus package for small and medium scale enterprises, manufacturing plants and other vulnerable business concerns. We opine that the stimulus package should also include the transport, aviation, hospitality and the financial sector. “Informal sector workers and artisans who earn their living on daily basis should also benefit from the stimulus package. We demand that the process of disbursing the bailout package should be inclusive especially in consultation with organized labour and the employers’ association. “On providing immediate assistance to sustain enterprises, preserve jobs and support incomes, the NLC has written the Federal Government of Nigeria through the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19 to demand that the recent $US3.5 billion stimulus package for SMEs and other businesses as announced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should go to businesses that need it the most. “A major criterion for access to this grant must be a signed commitment by the beneficiary businesses not to lay off workers or undermine the existing wage structure in their organizations. We also demanded that the disbursement of the grant should accommodate inputs from organized labour and employers’ association in order to ensure that the bailout funds get to the businesses, industries and production lines that need the money most”. Wabba observed that the world will never remain the same again after this current episode of the COVID-19 challenge, just as he urged workers everywhere to be alert and proactive to the changes happening around them. He said going forward Nigeria has a lot of lessons to learn from the tumult in the global socio-economic order due to COVID-19. He listed some of the lessons to include diversifying the economy, growing the local economy, expanding the social safety net and fixing the health sector. In his address, NECA director-general, Mr Timothy Olawale, noted that during the lockdown, activities of organised businesses and the informal sector were severely disrupted. He said for a country whose socio- economic environment was already challenging, the advent of the pandemic has placed additional burden on businesses and put thousands of workers under the threat of job losses. The NECA boss who was represented by the Deputy Director, NECA corporate Affairs Office, Abuja, Mrs Adenike Oluwafunmilola Adebayo-Ajala, stated that employers have remained faithful in their obligations to their workers despite the lockdowns and six weeks or thereabouts of non-productivity. He said, “As representative body of employers of labour, we have continued to encourage our members to continue to hold on and carter to the full compliments of their workforce for as long as it is practicable. “With the slight relaxation of the lockdown from 4th May, 2020 there is the hope that productive business activities will gradually pick up and we may still save jobs where the elastics have not snapped. “Overall, employers and workers owe the economy joint responsibly to sustain productivity, and competitiveness of business for continued employment of our workforce. “We would like to use this opportunity to call on Government to continue to support the growth and survival of businesses in the country, especially in the formal and informal sector. If businesses do not survive the effect of COVID 19 within the shortest period, it could result in massive job loss in the country. It is our responsibility- Government, Employers and Workers to ensure is that this does not occur.”  We’ll Protect Your Jobs, FG Tells Workers But the federal government however assured workers in the country that it will ensure their jobs are protected amidst the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the nation’s economy. Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige who made this known in his May Day Address, said no employer would lay off staff without first engaging with the ministry for clearance to embark on such actions. According to him, there was need for collaborative efforts to develop and imbibe a common will to fight and conquer unseen enemy, the COVID-19 outbreak, which has laid siege on humanity as offices, workplaces, small and large scale businesses remained closed. He said, “It is a well-known fact that arising from the covid-19 crisis, businesses in both the private and public sectors  have suffered. Sustainability of the enterprise has become a subject of concern. The worries precipitated by the covid-19 crisis are further compounded by worries of maintaining a source of livelihood. “In this regard, the Government and Social Partners would have a look at the four – pillar plan of policy responses to Covid-19 crisis laid out by the International Labour Organization (ILO) which are intended to be human-centered and built on global solidarity. This would be in addition to the Federal Government evolving plan of action to sustain the economy in the context of current global crisis.  No Pay Cut In Rivers – Organized Labour The organized labour in Rivers State has declared that there is no cut in the salaries of civil servants in the state. The organised labour, in a statement issued in Port Harcourt to mark the 2020 Workers Day, lauded Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, for prompt payment of salaries to government workers. The statement was signed by Chairman of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Beatrix Itubo; Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC), Austin Jonah and Chairman of Joint Public Sector Negotiating Council (JPSNC), Emecheta Chukwu. When contacted, the state commissioner for Information and Communications, Pastor Paulinus Nsirim, said he was not aware of any move by the state government to cut salaries of civil servants.  Bello Restates Commitment To Kogi Workers’ Welfare Governor of Kogi State,  Alhaji Yahaya Bello, yesterday congratulated workers in the state on the occasion of this year’s May Day, assuring them of his continued commitment to their welfare and well-being. The governor while applauding the workers for their dedication to service and  contributions to the development of the state over the years, said his administration will continue to accord priority to the issues of their wages and remunerations within the limited resources available to the state. Onogwu Muhammed, chief press secretary to the governor, noted in a statement that Bello commended the organised labour in the state under the leadership of Comrade Onuh Edoka of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) as well as other affiliates for the understanding and cordial working relationship that exists between the Unions and the government, urging them to sustain the tempo. He added that the governor expressed his appreciation to the organised Labour in the state for their cooperation during the civil service reform that has brought sanity and efficiency to the system today noting that such collaboration was clear testament that the Labour unions always stand with the government in making decision at difficult times. The spokesman continued: “The governor has directed that all Civil Servants from Salary Grade Level 12 and above in the Kogi State Civil Service are directed to resume work fully with effect from Monday, 4th May, 2020. “He urged workers and indeed, all citizens of the state to continue to observe all the preventive measures against the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic particularly, regular washing of hands, use of hand sanitizers, face masks and observance of social distancing. Meanwhile, Kogi State chairman of the NLC, Comrade Onu Edoka, has said that the union will not entertain any justification for salary reduction, especially at the local government and primary school levels. Addressing journalists in Lokoja yesterday, Edoka noted that there was a challenge in their hands over April 2020 salary which they are currently dialoguing with the state government. “We therefore use this medium to call on the Dr Mrs Folashade Arike Ayoade led 17-man committee to expedite action on its assignment. Issues emanating from the Screening Exercise still persist. There are still several Civil Servants whose careers have been truncated as a result of this exercise”, he stated.  Gombe Gov Vow To Sustain Workers’ Welfare Gombe State governor, Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya yesterday assured that his government will continue to remain favourably disposed towards the welfare of workers in the state, citing prompt and timely payments of workers’ salaries and wages. He equally congratulated workers in the state, as they join their comrades the world over in celebrating the 2020 International Workers’ Day yesterday. In a goodwill message, the governor described workers as partners in progress, assuring that his administration will continue to sustain and deepen the existing friendy working environment and industrial harmony in the state, aimed at increasing productivity of the workforce in particular and  improving good governance in general.  No Plan To Cut Kwara Workers’ Salaries – State Govt Kwara State government has said it is not contemplating any reduction in workers’ salaries as a result of the current economic crunch caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The State’s Finance commissioner, Olasumbo Florence Oyeyemi said all the state was doing in the face of dwindling revenues “is preserving the state’s wealth to take care of major expenses of the state like first line expenses – salaries and taking care of the poor and provide for the completion of the ongoing projects. “Area that we will still look into is education sector because we will be providing alternative for classroom learning. Also, the present administration has embarked on several water projects which must not stop because at such a time like this, our people need potable water”, she added. Meanwhile, the the state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has congratulated workers in the state on the occasion of the 2020 May Day, stating that they deserve the best and would always have his ears.  ‘No Plan To Cut Ekiti Workers’ Salary’ Ekiti State government has also said that it has no plan to slash the salaries of civil servants in the state. The state commissioner for Information, Mr Muyiwa Olumilua, who spoke with LEADERSHIP Weekend in Ado Ekiti, clarified that rather, “the state is in the process of slashing the salaries of political appointees serving under the government but it will not affect all categories of civil servants in the state”. The state governor, Kayode Fayemi, had last week ordered 50% cut in his salaries, that of his deputy and all political appointees due to effect of COVID-19 on the economy. Yesterday, Fayemi assured workers in the state that the debilitating effects of the outbreak of coronavirus will not take away the core values of prompt payment of salaries, pensions, gratuities and the implementation of the N30,000 minimum wage across board. The governor who noted that COVID-19 pandemic may have robbed the workers of the opportunity of celebrating their day with the usual fanfare and joy promised financial help for the bedridden, vulnerable and widows in the civil service to mitigate their sufferings.  Lalong Commends Workers On Implementation Of New Minimum Wage Plateau State government has said it was slashing its spending by 40 per cent to cope with revenue cuts caused by the Coronavirus pandemic. This Development was part of a live broadcast by the State governor, Simon Lalong, at an emergency executive council meeting in the state. According to the governor, this would affect all recurrent expenditures other than salaries and pensions, adding specifically that allowances of government officials will be cut by 50%.  ‘A/Ibom Yet To Discuss Workers’  Pay  Cut’ Akwa Ibom State government has said it was yet to  discuss  the issue of  salary pay cut  of workers in the state. The state commissioner for Information, Sir Charles Udoh, told LEADERSHIP Weekend that the matter has not been discussed by the state executive council He assured that such decision, if contemplated, would be made public. The State House of Assembly had passed into law the amended 2020 appropriation law from initial N597.74billion outlay to N366billion to meet up with the economic challenges globally due to COVID-19 pandemic ravaging the world. Briefing journalists in Uyo, Chairman of the House Committee on Information, Barrister Aniefiok Dennis and his Appropriation and Finance counterpart, Hon. Uduak Odudoh pointed out that the recurrent expenditure as approved for 2020 stood at N111,224,509,700 with a reduction of 13,000,000,000. They said the amended version of the Bill now stands at N98, 224,509,700, for Recurrent Expenditure, excluding the Consolidated Revenue Fund Charges.  Kaduna NLC Rejects 25% Salary Deduction Kaduna State chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has rejected deduction of 25 per cent from salaries of senior civil servants in the state, asking the state governor, Nasir el-Rufai to return the deducted fund or face action from the Union. The state government had at the weekend announced that it would deduct 25 per cent from salaries of civil servants receiving above N67,000, to provide palliatives for the vulnerable citizens who don’t work for the government and are affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. Addressing press conference in Kaduna yesterday, NLC chairman, Comrade Ayuba Magaji Suleiman said government should stop the 25% deduction and return the one already deducted from the workers.  ‘Delta Not Contemplating Cut in Salaries’ Delta State chairman of the NLC, Comrade Goodluck Ofobrukwu has disclosed that the state government was not disposed to cutting the salaries of any civil servant in the state despite the economic situation in the country. He told LEADERSHIP Weekend that the leadership of NLC and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa have resolved not to tinker with the salary of workers, noting that even when there was a drop in revenue profile of the state in 2016, the state government never slashed the salary of civil servants. He advised workers in the state to comply with the detect of the government in the ongoing fight against coronavirus pandemic, COVID-19.  ‘Tambuwal Not Deducting Anything From Sokoto Workers’ Salary’ Despite the short fall in allocations given to states due to the COVID-19 pandemic which resulted in some states reducing salaries and allowances of their workers, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal has continued to pay workers their full salaries. Making the clarification yesterday in a phone conversation, the state chairman NLC, Comrade Aminu Umar, said the governor was not even contemplating such idea as workers welfare are amongst his top priorities. According to him, Tambuwal is making adequate plans to appreciate workers instead of increasing pains for them.  Workers, Pensioners Suffering In Osun -NLC The chairman of NLC in Osun State, Comrade Jacob Babatunde Adekomi yesterday lamented that workers and pensioners in the state were suffering due to heavy debt owed them by the state government. Adekomi who made this known in his May Day message made available to newsmen in Osogbo said the May Day worldwide is always an occasion for celebrating workers, which he said was not possible this year. Adekomi however expressed appreciation to Governor Gboyega Oyetola for the prompt payment of full salaries and pensions since inception of his administration.  Sanwo-Olu Dedicates 2020 May Day To Medical, Frontline Workers Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday dedicated the 2020 May Day to medical personnel and every other frontline workers working tirelessly to flatten the curve of COVID- 19 in the country. The governor spoke at the State House, Marina, where the key officials of the government and leaders of organised labour unions held a low-key event to commemorate the 2020 Workers’ Day. Sanwo-Olu used the occasion of the May Day anniversary to appreciate frontline health and emergency workers, whom he described as heroes, for sacrificing their personal wellbeing for the efforts at combating the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.  ‘Imo Civil Servants Not Under Threat’ Civil servants in Imo State seem to be having a field day as the state government under the leadership of Senator Hope Uzodimma is not contemplating slashing of their salaries. Speaking with LEADERSHIP Weekend, the state chairman NLC, Austin Chilapo, stressed that for now, the state government is working in tandem with the Labour Union and all the relevant contentions related to payment of salaries to the Civil Servants  has been carried out religiously by the state government. He urged the government not to relent in this direction as the Union would not tolerate and call them to order if they renege.  We Won’t Cut Salary In Oyo – Sate Govt In Oyo State, the state government has decided not to cut or reduce salaries of the civil servants as a result of the ravaging coronavirus. The state governor, Seyi Makinde, who spoke participants at the 2020 International Workers’ Day held at the secretariat of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), noted that civil servants in the state would not be affected by the pay cut, saying that “nothing will affect the welfare and payment of the worker’s salary despite the dwindling economy.” However, Makinde has ordered a 50 per cent reduction in salaries of all senior political appointees in state with immediate effect.  Secondus, Obi Hail Workers’ For Their Sacrifice National chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus and the vice presidential candidate of the party in 2019, Peter Obi yesterday hailed Nigerian workers for their age long sacrifice for the growth of the nation. Secondus stated that even in the current challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic, Nigeria health Workers and other essential workers had remained in the frontline taking most risks with little or no reward. The national chairman, in a statement from his media office, said  it was unfortunate that the coming of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has further worsened the plight of workers because of their inept approach to the economic challenges of the country.