A Nigerian pharmacist and proponent of alternative medicine, Ben Amodu, has said that he has formulated drugs that can cure the raging pandemic COVID-19. Amodu said three of the drugs he had manufactured possessed properties that could cure victims of the dreaded disease even as he claimed that the drugs had cured three patients exhibiting the symptoms of the new coronavirus. The foremost pharmacist made the revelation in an interview in Abuja. Amodu who is the proprietor of Africa Alternative Medicine Hospital and a Fellow of Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria said that one of his drugs for cure of malaria fever and typhoid, SAABMAL, is more effective than chloroquine. He said, “It is listed by NAFDAC and it is in the market doing very well. It cures malaria within a few hours of use and even typhoid. And now it can prevent and cure coronavirus.” According to the foremost pharmacist, the drug which beat chloroquine in an international forum in Addis Ababa was tested in suppressive, provilative and creative tests and that it has 95 per cent effectiveness against f.persiferium which is a positive agent of malaria adding that it is also an absolvent in the treatment of many diseases. He, however, fingered lack of faith in alternative medicine by the government as the bane in handling the COVID-19. “I am a lead phitomedicine researcher. Immediately the pandemic broke out, the honourable minister of science and technology issued a statement that whosoever is a local researcher that has knowledge in this area should write to his office. I was the first person to contact them.” He disclosed that despite this, the office of the minister had not reached out to him even when he reminded him of his claims after a long wait. He said, “SAABMAL which had been listed more than 10 years ago is for malaria and typhoid and by latest discovery now, it can cure corona virus.” According to Amodu, “SAABFAT6 takes care of and prevent cancer of the lungs, pneumonia and fibrosis. It boosts immunity. So far, the combo of my three products are fantastic. I have two vaccines for Nigeria which I had given the government to test.” He decried the condescension, which Nigeria regards its own adding, “my research work is just the same Nigeria wants to get from other countries. Nigerians should know that what we have is better than what the world has. I always subject my product to analysis in line with best practices. I appeared in NTA Panorama and promised to produce malaria drugs that would be the best in the world and it has come to past. We sent SAABMAL to America for analysis then an American publisher exposed our product’s details to the world. Also WHO sponsored us to the UN to present it and the presentation was for suppression, prevention and cure of malaria. Compared to the standard of chloroquine arthemytanin.”