In recognition of her work across Nigeria, especially in the northern part of the country, where she works to empower and mentor young people, Farida Princess Ahmed, the Chief Executive Officer of Premium Shelter Limited, has bagged five awards. In a statement signed by her Media Office, Ahmed expressed gratitude to the youth groups that have recognised her years of service to the community, while also pledging to continue to contribute to human capital development both in her personal capacity and through the corporate social responsibility projects embarked on by her company. “When you’re doing the work you don’t expect anyone to be paying attention. However, it gladdens my heart that our empowerment and mentorship work which cuts across most of the 19 northern states, has been recognised by these four groups. “As I always like to say: ‘once you have been recognised, it is not time to stop. Instead, it is time to put your foot on the gas and drive forward at full steam. This is what people should expect from me and my team. “Over the next few weeks, we will be announcing a whole bunch of exciting initiatives through my new NGO. We have created this platform to not only give back, but to also help to prepare the next generation of Nigerian leaders,” Ahmed said. The awards Ahmed received include the National Outstanding Leadership Award as the ‘Icon of Societal Transformation’ from Congress of Nigerian Youth (CONYO) and the Grand Commander of Arewa Students award, in recognition of her immense contributions towards societal development, human upliftment, youth development and service to the nation from the Arewa Students Forum. Others are the ‘Icon of Hope’ award from National Assoication of Northern Nigerian Students, in recognition of her immense contribution towards national development, educational upliftment, youth empowerment and service to humanity) from National Assoication of Northern Nigerian Students; the ‘Platinum Leadership’ award in recognition and appreciation of her immense contributions towards human transformation and prudent management of human and material resources for the benefit of Nigeria — this she received from the Sir Ahmadu Bello Northern Yoth Council of Nigeria (ABYCN). Ahmed also received the ‘Icon of Societal Transformation’ award from the Nigerian Chapter of the West African Students Union in recognition of her philanthropic work across Nigeria. 