The literacy rate of Nigeria roams around 60% and this only outlines the ability of people to read and write. Digital literacy is a completely different phenomenon and it doesn’t correlate with the former. An individual needs to go through hands-on practical usage of these digital technologies to be called a digital literate. The prerequisites for digital literacy are quite a bit expensive as it requires the ownership of gadgets and computer machines. This could be the prime reason why the masses are still left behind in becoming part of a digital economy. Digital literacy in modern times has its significant importance that can’t be denied at any cost. Recently, most of the traditional business models were facing severe survival challenges due to economic lockdowns. The ones who had adopted towards the use of the latest technologies and platforms were able to manage and operate while ensuring the safety precautions. With technological evolutions rapidly affecting the industrial operations, digital literacy and the ability to make optimized use of online platforms is quite imminent to survive and thrive. Let’s evaluate some of the dimensions and benefits of becoming a digital literate. Businesses are going online To the date, if you find any business owner who is not convinced to have an online presence, he would be deemed as an unaware person. You would most of the industries now operating online too along with their traditional working models. There has been a significant Return On Investments for them, this is the reason why we see more advertising done rigorously at digital platforms. Moreover, investment and trading can be done online conveniently with the time and place of your choosing. The ones who want to truly empower themselves and ensure they scale their time and money they can’t miss out on the use of these online trading platforms. The CFD trading strategy for beginners might come in handy to get started and many other mediums open up when you exist in the world of the internet. Also, financial authorities are working relentlessly to move towards the cashless economy. They want to ensure transparency within the financial systems, so banking systems and digital wallets are greatly promoted over recent times. To make masses integrated with the evolving economic systems, digital literacy is the way to go. Unveils various communication channels for each of the industry Whether you exist in any of the industries, you can have the access to various communication channels while operating digitally. The globalization process has been a success only on the basis of digital communications and messages getting across instantly between different parties. The education industry is also rampantly moving towards the use of Learning Management Systems and conducting classes online. This makes digital literacy quite relevant for modern-day kids and they need to get equipped with the use of technological gadgets. Otherwise, they won’t be coping up quite well with the evolving global operating systems. The need and levels of each individual with regard to digital literacy may differ a great deal. What stays important is that the masses now should know that this is the way to go for the future. Digital firms are working relentlessly in making things more convenient with technology being leveraged for most tasks of the day. You don’t want to keep yourself from missing out else it may pose an existential challenge during turbulent times. 