By Olawale Ayeni, National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer, African Union Development Agency-New Partnership for Africa’s Development/African Peer Review Mechanism (AUDA-NEPAD/APRM) Nigeria, Princess Gloria Akobundu, says for the nation to fully maximize its potentials and ensure that labour of our heroes past never be in vain Nigerians should promote peace, oneness and exhibit high sense of patriotism at all times. Akobundu made the observation in her goodwill message to mark the nation’s 60 years of independence. According to the CEO of the nation’s socio-economic development Agency, the message is that Nigeria at 60, has made some remarkable progress. “Our collective support for peace and high sense of patriotism will further harness open the doors to more socio-economic development. “ We should support our country, we should support government development programmes and promote peace and security to have a greater nation. According  to the statement signed by the Media Assistant to CEO of APRM Nigeria Abolade Ogundimu “ we should believe in ourselves, believe in our country, promote our country, unite as one Nigeria and we will be able to foster development and economic growth in our country,” she said. The National Coordinator urged the youths to channel their vibrant energy towards positive venture and things that would move the nation forward. The young people of Nigeria, it is time we say “no’ to what we should say ```no’’ to and sayyes” to what we should say “yes’’ to. Let us unite in saying no to insurgency, kidnapping, banditry and other negative vices. As obtainable in developed nations across the world, let’s promote economic development through strategic partnership with domestic and foreign development partners, without peace, we cannot have it. “We are inviting investors to come into Nigeria, how will they come when we don’t create enabling peaceful environment?” she asked. She lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for his commitment to bequeath a greater nation to the people by championing implementation of development programmes “I respectfully commend President Muhammadu Buhari for his firm supports towards successful implementation of AUDA-NEPAD/APRM Nigeria’s programmes on good governance and socio-economic development. “ In 2019, President Buhari approved Second Cycle Review of the Country (after 11 years of First Review) in order to have data and genuine feedback from the grassroots and various segments of the country on the four thematic areas of APRM. “The Review Process is already ongoing in the six geo-political zones of the country,through the process we aim to garner reports that can help the nation to come up with National Programme of Action (NPoA). `Similarly, AUDA-NEPAD’s Initiative to Strengthen Smallholder Farmers that constitute more than 80% of farmers in the Country amid COVID-19 pandemic is ready for implementation. “the initiative was designed to improve productivity, reduce wastages and create wealth at the grassroots for local farmers through adequate skills development along agricultural value chain. “The National Steering Committee of the Initiative chaired by His Excellency, Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq of Kwara State has been inaugurated by CEO of AUDA-NEPAD Continental, Dr. Ibrahim Mayaki. “The project will be funded through counterpart funding by development partners and state governments for effective implementation at the grassroots, so that we can build on the gains recorded in the agricultural sector of the economy” she said. She recalled that Nigeria with over 200 million people survived total lockdown due to pragmatic policies of President Muhammadu Buhari to support local food production and consumption since 2019. Akobundu sued for collective efforts to harness huge potentials of the nation including its human capital so that the country could derive better opportunities in continental and global economy. It would be recalled that lockdown necessitated by COVID-19 pandemic early 2020 caught nations unaware, hence the need to survive on own resources. 