Chairman, Contact And Mobilisation Committee and Member Steering Committee, Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), Rev. Olusegun
Peters has said that the dream of our founding fathers has been a mirage in the past 60 years “as this giant of Africa has been on life support gasping for breathe, ravaged and devastated by inept
leadership, corruption, tribalism, militancy, insurgency, kidnapping and armed robbery.” Rev. Peters in a statement made available to LEADERSHIP in Abuja,
yesterday said the state of the nation is bad and needs collective prayers and efforts of patriotic Nigerians to rescue it from the cabal that has held the populace hostage in the past 60 years of
independence, particularly the incumbent All Progressives Congress-led federal government. He said that as the torchbearer of Nigeria’s democracy, the Coalition
of United Political Parties is strongly determined to liberate the masses from their APC task masters that have impoverished them and redirect the ship of the Nigeria State to the path of rectitude, development, progress and advancement. He said, “For 60 years Nigerians have been groping in the dark with
failed expectations and dashed hopes of a united, prosperous and just
society. The Buhari regime is grossly insensitive to the feelings and
sufferings of the masses and delights in oppressing, suppressing and
subjugating the people with ill-conceived policies and actions that have further impoverished them. The common man is over taxed and bears the heavy burden of inept leadership. Instead of providing
palliatives to assuage the pains of months of COVID-19 national
lockdown as obtainable in other countries, the APC-led Federal
Government imposes stamp duties, increase pump price of fuel and hike
electricity rate leading to spiral inflation. Nigerian lives matter,
the people desire and deserve good governance with dividends of
democracy, and not carnage. “CUPP urges INEC to obey the clear judgement of the Court of Appeal
which restated the political parties wrongly deregistered on 6th
February 2020, bearing in mind that there is no stay of execution to
this landmark ruling of the appellate court that has deepened our
frail democracy. The political space should be widened not restricted. CUPP commends Nigerians for their resilience and enterprising spirit
in the face of leadership fatigue in Aso Rock, political upheavals and
economic stagnation. Nigerians should hold their elected leaders accountable and ensure that they do the right thing all the time,
resist tranny and obnoxious policies and actions that impede our  fragile democracy.”