Cristiano Ronaldo and six other Juventus team-mates face a potential police probe and £900 fine for an alleged quarantine rules breach. The players left Juventus’ retreat on Monday morning, where the Serie A kings were in isolation. Juventus were living in a bubble within their camp at Continassa after two cases of coronavirus were found last Saturday. According to TuttoSport, Gianluigi Buffon and Merih Demiral decided to leave the camp and return to their respective homes on Monday morning. And Rodrigo Bentancur, Juan Cuadrado, Danilo, Paulo Dybala and Ronaldo reportedly departed to play for their national teams. It is claimed Juventus could not stop their players from leaving the bubble and when they did it became an individual responsibility. The Italian champions then informed members of ASL, the local health unit, who confirmed they received the report directly from the club. Names of the players who left the isolation bubble were then given to the Prosecutor’s Office. Corriere di Torino revealed Roberto Testi, the director of the Prevention Department of the ASL Citta di Torino, indicated nothing controversial will come from the rule breach. Testi said “I don’t think anything serious has been committed and if someone were to take a private flight, maybe they’ll pay a fine and I don’t think any players will have problems doing it.” At Continassa, Andrea Pirlo’s team continued to train in isolation, including some players who received international call-ups during the current break. Italy manager Roberto Mancini said he expected Juventus players to arrive, but the isolation period will reportedly only end once all the protocol checks are completed. Ronaldo was in the Portugal squad that drew 0-0 with Spain on Wednesday and plays France and Sweden in Nations League fixtures. But the 35-year-old received the devastating news that his £7million home in Madeira was burgled while he was on international duty. Partner Georgina Rodriguez was also away at Paris Fashion Week. The chancer is claimed to have snuck into the house after a member of Ronaldo’s staff opened the garage door, according to respected local paper Diario de Noticias Madeira. Police are said to be on the hunt for the suspected burgler.