By AZA MSUE, Kaduna Senator Uba Sani, representing Kaduna Central District, has urged Nigerians to
imbibe the spirit of peace and love in this year’s Eid-el-Maulud as personified by the Holy Prophet Muhammad. In a message rejoicing with the Muslim Ummah in Nigeria and across the globe on the occasion of Maulud, Uba Sani noted that for Nigeria, the occasion could not have come at a better time. The senator urged Nigerian men and women to give peace a chance and let love reign again. Uba Sani while lamenting that legitimate protests over human rights infractions by security agencies have degenerated into wanton destruction of lives and property across the country, said peace is now in short supply. The senator’s message said:”We are confronted with serious challenges and situations that urgently require that we imbibe the virtues of the Holy Prophet Mohammed (peace be upon him). Tension has enveloped many states and communities,” he said. “Our economy has taken another terrible hit. It is quite distressing. But hope is not lost,” he said, “Our dear Prophet Mohammed (peace be upon him) showed us the way. His life was an open book of love, humility, simplicity, patience, perseverance, forgiveness and tolerance. Let us reflect on the happenings of the last one month and resolve to pull our country back from the brink,” he said. “Other nations did not arrive at the gate of greatness by tearing themselves apart at the least provocation. Uba Sani added:”Freedom, justice and equity are ideals which we must collectively strive to achieve if we hope to lift our country to higher heights. “We must engage in national conversations to forge a country that all of us would be proud of.
“I rejoice with our dear Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai on this occasion. May the Almighty Allah continue to strengthen him. I also salute the Acting Governor of Kaduna State, Hajiya Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe who has been steering the affairs of the state in these difficult and challenging times. Allah is indeed her strength. I warmly greet and salute my constituents, the good people of Kaduna Central Senatorial District. “Please continue to maintain the peace. We can collectively resolve all issues through dialogue, understanding and tolerance. We are making progress on all fronts. We must not embark on any action that will reverse the gains so far made. I will continue to serve my people to the best of my ability. Our constituency, by the grace of God, will regain its pride of place,” the senator said.