The man God has blessed let no man
cursed.” “What God has put together
lets no man put asunder.” These are biblical injunctions often quoted to support or buttress the supremacy and authority of God over ordinary mortals. Of course, human beings are nothing but mere mortals. Human beings have no powers or control over what will befall them let alone what
will befall others. All are under direct
control of Almighty God. God is the
one and only creator and controller of
everything on earth. Humans have no
free will in that regards. God controls
everything including what humans do.
All believers have absolute knowledge
of predestination. Almighty God has
measured out the span of every person’s
life, his lot of good or ill fortune and
fruits of his efforts. Precisely against these backgrounds,
the Almighty God has predestined
Engr. Abdullahi Sule to be governor of
Nasarawa State; the more reason why,
among all the array of contestants to
the throne of governor of the state
in 2019, Engr Sule emerged winner.
His emergence was not because he is
the best of all the candidates nor the
most favoured by the Almighty, his
emergence was purely the will of God.
Ever since the emergence of Engr Sule
as governor in 2019, so many amusing
things have been used to describe the
kind of person he is and the type of
government he is heading. Some said he
lacks public service exposures; others
said that he is not in total control of
his government, while others simply
dismissed him as someone who has
no any articulated agenda of his own.
Whatever people might say about
Engr Sule God has already made him
the governor of Nasarawa State. And
regardless of what cynics may say,
Engr Sule is doing his best to improve
on what he met on his assumption of
office. In all the sectors of the economy
of the state, Engr Sule has thus far,
made an appreciable impact to the
extent that even if you do not like the
approach or his mode of governance
you cannot totally fault the ideas and
the reforms he is introducing in the
business of governance in the state.
In his inaugural speech, Engr Sule
identified areas to which he will focus
his on, chief among such areas are
agriculture, human capital development
and security. Since Nasarawa State is
an agrarian state, he said: “The major
part of our agenda is to encourage
commercial agriculture in our areas of
comparative advantage and boost value
addition to our crops by laying solid
foundation for agro-allied industries.
To this end, government will work with
interested investors to drive the sector
to diverse levels of growth.” Sixteen months after Engr Sule
made this solemn commitment to
boost agriculture in Nasarawa State,
what has changed since then? Many
things have changed for the better ihe areas of agriculture, the presence
of Dangote, AZMAN Group and other
private investments in the state are
clear pointers to the transformation the
state is experiencing under Engr Sule.
Agriculture apart, Engr Sule also
made commitment to improve on
entire areas of human endeavours to
fast-track developments in the state,
in this connection; he is steadily
working to ensure that Nasarawa
State is counted among top the
three most competitive states in
the country, in terms of sustained,
accelerated economic growth, increased
economic activities and prosperity.
One area which Engr Sule identified
as a major pathway to realisation of
these objectives is through unlocking
of opportunities, creation of wealth,
improved employment drive and
sustained growth in the state. Towards this end, Governor Sule only
recently approved the employment
of 30 doctors, 15 pharmacists and
pharmaceutical technicians, 70 nurses
as well as 50 medical laboratory
technicians. This is besides the
engagement of 500 secondary school
teachers, as well as countless incentives
his administration offers to boost
private investment in the state.
As someone coming from the
private sector; a sector known for
setting goals and targets and striving
to achieve them, Engr Sule is today
sparing no efforts to make sure that
those goals and targets are achieved.
His restiveness as can be seen from his
incessant movements from one end of
the country to the other is targeted at
bringing those goals to fruition.
But just as Engr Sule himself
observed, no matter the efforts one put
in trying to unlock opportunities, create
wealth and drive sustained growth to
our state, if there is insecurity, all the
efforts will come to naught. While receiving a delegation led by
the national president of the Nigeria
Union of Journalists (NUJ), Chris
Isiguzo, at the Government House on
Friday, 17th September, 2020, Engr
Sule emphasised: “Security is the
number one job of this government as
without security, all the good things the
government is working hard to put in
place to better both the state and the
people, may not come to fruition.”
He added that “no matter the cost
of security, it’s not too expensive for
the state to bear.” Through the efforts
of Governor Sule and the support
of President Muhammadu Buhari,
Nasarawa State is today enjoying
relative peace. The success stories
security agencies are dishing out
daily regarding their operations in
Nasarawa State are clear testament of
Governor Sule’s resilience in flushing
out criminals in the state. A leader that cares for the securityd general well-being of his people is
indeed a leader worthy of trust. Engr
Sule deserves our trust. We have to
trust him, for he is the one to take us
to the Promised Land. Attempting to
paint him (Governor Sule) in a negative
light as some sections of the people of
the state are doing will not yield any
result. Since Governor Sule is whom
God has chosen for us, we must not
curse nor undermine him.