As Nigeria marks its 60th Independence anniversary, Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello says that the country can only bridge its importation gap when government at all levels provide the needed infrastructure to drive investment and help reduce the cost of production. In this interview, he spoke on the country’s journey to nationhood, challenges faced by his administration and efforts at addressing them. Excerpt Nigeria yesterday clocked 60 years and there is a reason that 60 is regarded as the age of diamond, the most precious and the hardest naturally-formed mineral yet known. How well do you think we have fared? Despite all the challenges we have had in the past, it is worth celebrating Nigeria. However, I believe we should have made progress on certain areas; economy, especially as it concerns industrialisation. I am speaking from experience. On how it affects Niger State, I can say that we have the capacity, and needed potential to rank us as producers rather than consumers. So far, I am glad with President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts as we are beginning to achieve our position. In the past, all the rice we consumed in Nigeria was imported, but as we speak, there’s a major shift and Nigeria is now a major producer of rice and I strongly believe that we can do more. Even here in Niger State, there are a couple of rice mills and these have led to the creation of job opportunities in the state, request for more rice paddy, which means that our farmers will have to produce more, but of course, the government will have to support them. Surprisingly, we have always been independent until things went wrong. We started importing everything. Even the ones we would have ordinarily produced were imported. A typical example is fuel. Our refineries no longer work. We allowed our infrastructure to irresponsibly breakdown. I believe that at 60 years, we will open a new chapter and a new phase towards revitalising our economy and ensuring that we invest in the future of the younger generation. The way out is simple. What we need to do is to ensure that all industries that are comatose are resuscitated. The importation of those things we could have ordinarily produced no doubt has a negative impact on our economy and on the other hand, led us to sustaining the economies of countries we import from. For instance, the cotton value chain alone can pave the way for millions of Nigerians to be gainfully employed. With this realisation, I am hopeful that we will restart our industries before the end of the year. It is quite unfortunate that despite being an oil-producing country, we still import oil. There is no reason why we should be importing fuel. At 60, I hope that we are able to tell ourselves the bitter truth. We all know what is right and wrong, yet, we don’t have the courage to confront it. I hope we’ll have the courage to confront and address our security challenges. What’s your take on security, perennial flooding and other challenges?    A lot of compromise in the security sector of our country is demoralising. It is demoralising when governors make efforts, heads of security agencies work towards implementing strategies only to be betrayed by security agents. There’s unbearable rate of compromise from security operatives. Security is key; it has affected a lot of agricultural activities. We have issues with the locals going to farm freely because of bandits. At the same time, we suffered a lot of flood. Our 60th birthday as a country has been a very challenging one. We had COVID-19 and our schools have been closed, they are just about to resume, while the activities of bandits are still ongoing. The truth is that life in Niger State has been extremely tough, infrastructure are decayed, all federal roads in the state are in a very deplorable state. We have over 2300km federal roads but less than 10 per cent are motorable. One of the best roads in Niger State, Minna to Bida has been badly damaged due to the pressure by articulated vehicles Yes, it is good to make profits but it shouldn’t be at the detriment of majority of Nigerians. The standard we know of trucks should be 30 tonnes but now we have trucks carrying 50-70 tonnes, tankers loading 30,000-70,000 litres. No road can withstand that. From Paiko to Minna, is a federal road which usually takes about 10 minutes’ drive, but now, the reverse is the case. This is my frustration. It’s raining, you cannot fix those roads, the contractors on the Minna/Bida Road are helpless because it is causing them more money. We are to in fact, pay 10-15 per cent as compensation, if we need the job done. As Nigerians, we have to improve in our character, love one another and wish each other well. We have to reflect on what went wrong and how to address them. I will like to wish Nigeria as a country a happy anniversary and it is my prayer that we see a better future. We have to put in place infrastructure for the future generations by investing in education and the economy. I am very optimistic that we will get there. Nigerlites are not happy that despite hosting about four dams, they still do not enjoy power supply. Aren’t you worried? If yes, how do you hope to address this? I have personally engaged the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) and I think there is a general problem with the distribution companies (DisCos). The power generated is there but the problem is the distribution. As a state government, we also pay about N60 million to AEDC every month, yet they complain that people are not paying bills. From my investigation, those who aren’t paying are doing so because there is barely electricity supply. So, how do you explain that? I set up a committee to meet with the AEDC and I offered that they provide prepaid meters so that our people can pay as they consume. I wanted to face off estimated billings. In my opinion, the required investment in that sector is incomplete and I think the federal government should really look at that process. I offered and provided funds to assist them as loans to purchase meters for customers and we worked out modalities on how the money will be deducted so that we can get back our money back. We have done the assessment, install transformers and wire lines across communities have been done but it has not been energised because they feel the place is not commercially viable. The fact is that we should have some kind of concessions. This is because when we suffer flood, nobody feels it. At the moment, we have over 150 communities under water and more than 20 local government areas affected and nobody is listening to us. This was exactly how we appealed to the federal government to work on the roads, they ignored us until I ordered the closure of Minna/Bida Road. I only opened it because of the intervention of some persons I highly respect. They have, however, given me their words that something will be done and if nothing happens as promised, I will not hesitate to shut it again so that everybody should be grounded. All cargoes pass through Niger State. We are the gateway. Parents taking their children to school are often inconvenienced, pregnant women end up with miscarriages and even Minna roads are destroyed by unlawful truck drivers that think they can take laws into their hands. The same thing applies to power. People are suffering, they don’t see electricity. I will follow up the HYPERDEC Bill. I think we have to work towards its implementation even though that won’t solve our problems completely. During the COVID-19 lockdown, we paid about N80 million to AEDC. It is not sustainable if that is what they want us to do because it is easier for them to get money from government. That gesture was to reduce the sufferings of our people during the lockdown and particularly Ramadan. The number of transformers and cables installed so far is running into billions. It is not our responsibility but that of the DisCos. The process needs to be looked at, the DisCos need to be invited to tell us what the problem is and why they are not investing in the sector. They should know that every Nigerian is entitled to electricity. You don’t say this particular place is commercially viable and the other place is not. As long as they will pay. My findings show that they are ready to pay but they do not want to pay by estimate and I totally agree with them. I acknowledge the sufferings of the communities around the Zungeru Dam, their displacement and their loss of their farms. A major investor, Sunti Sugar had its entire sugarcane plantation washed away. The facility is gone. An N80 billion investment is gone. There should be a special intervention fund to support them and the economy of those areas, otherwise, we are going back to square one. I hope going forward, we will do whatever we can to stimulate our economy and stimulating our economy, we are to make sure that those who lost their livelihood go back helped. Some people rely on electricity to survive. We may at our level not see it as anything but at their level, it is something. There is a multiplier effect at the level because that activity creates jobs and there is circulation of funds. Be it in the public or private sector. Everyone is a leader but the most important thing is that we must have conscience Going forward, I believe those states that are hosting dams should be looked into. I also believe that the DisCos must be pushed to provide prepaid meters, they must be pushed to provide electricity to all the nooks and crannies that there are lines, this is because those people are also Nigerians and they are ready to pay. If electricity is not provided to those areas how will the economy grow? There is definitely a problem with the DisCos but I hope that now that I have involved the HYPPADEC states, with the pressure from all the governors, we will see to the implementation of the HYPPADEC. Zungeru, Baro and Suleja have played significant roles in the development of this nation and recently, Suleja formed part of the establishment of the FCT. Has Niger State been fully compensated for its contributions to national development commensurately? Niger State contributed close to 70 per cent of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and at that time, there was an agreement on compensation. The failure to do what was agreed upon is what is creating problems for us, especially in Suleja today. We have a consultant and he has submitted his report. Hopefully, Niger and Nasarawa State governments will be approaching the federal government on this matter. It is so detailed and it is our intention to get them to implement the agreement. If you look at Suleja, our infrastructure are overstretched. I don’t think we have been compensated adequately. We are talking with the consultant and we are going to look into it. What’s your position on Baro Port? The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is working towards reactivating the port. The construction of the port is already completed and we are looking at how we can push to ensure that operations begin. We have been assured that before the end of the year, the first batch from Lagos will land Baro and we have also met with some interested private sector partners who have indicated interest. We are gaining momentum about the reactivation of the Baro Port. Recently, I met with the managing director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation and we discussed about the re-organising economic potential in Baro to make it a success. We are going into a PPP arrangement so that they will provide some locomotives and wagons for us to operate from Baro to Minna and from Minna to Akare in Wushishi local government area. We have set up a joint committee between Niger State government and Nigeria Railway Corporation. Their mandate is to look at the technicalities and the financial implications. We also included transportation between Minna and Kaduna by rail. The federal government awarded a lot of contracts on federal roads in Niger State but there is no funding. We have reconstructed about 30km on Suleja/Minna Road without refund. I believe that with the support of the President, Baro will be reactivated and it will increase economic activities. I am discussing roads with the federal government especially those that have economic potential then we can do the social ones and Baro is one of such roads with economic potential. What’s your assessment of Niger State at 44 years after its creation, considering the fact Nigeria was birth in one of its ancient city? When I came to Niger they had a system in place but I don’t know where we got it wrong. I noticed exciting infrastructure and investments made by our forefathers. Sadly, most of these projects have been abandoned. Probably, because of politics, any government that comes will want to commission projects that led us to a very decaying system. I found out that a lot of new contracts that were not necessary were awarded but as a political head, if you don’t embark and commission new ones, critics will start asking you to show what you have done when you invest on something, maintenance culture is key. When we came in there were schools that have not seen paints for over 40 years, schools where students sleep on the floor and schools without toilets. Our water boards in major towns had to undergo rehabilitation, fixing of high and low pumps. Reticulation is the major problem we are having. Minna. Bida and Kontagora have been completed. When you invest in something, maintenance is key. We have very poor maintenance culture I decided in our first term that we shouldn’t embark on any new project, we should try to continue and finish the ones we met on ground and that was what brought about the whole school approach. So instead of us building new schools we decided to renovate and rebuild that one we have. We have started fixing our hospitals too. It is better we invest in already existing facility and build new one when there is need. But if a new government comes, they will want to abandon what the previous government did and start new ones. This won’t take us anywhere. I want to see a changed Niger State having reached 44 years. I want to see continuity regardless of the party. Continuity is for the benefit of our people, we have to make sure that the system works efficiently. Of course, there is need for new projects but there is also need to have a robust maintenance culture to ensure that everything is working perfectly. We have to ensure that investments made 40 years ago by our predecessors don’t die vain; we have to ensure that they are very functional. Nigeria is still battling with security challenges, particularly in the North. A case at hand is the recent attack on a governor’s convoy. What do you think must have gone wrong and what is the way forward? We are all disturbed about the security challenges the country is faced with. In fact, the situation in Niger State would have been worse, if not for the proactive steps we took. We engaged traditional rulers, the police and the vigilantes. The burden of security falls on everyone and not just the governments. This is because insecurity remains the major factor pushing us backwards. I am proud to say that we are getting the support of the service chiefs. Indigenous Industries Must Be Allowed To Work To Reduce Importation – Gov Sani Bello As Nigeria marks its 60th Independence anniversary, Niger State governor, Abubarkar Sani Bello says that the country can only bridge its importation gap when government at all levels provide the needed infrastructure to drive investment and help reduce the cost of production. In this interview, he spoke on the country’s journey to nationhood, challenges faced by his administration and efforts at addressing them. Excerpt Nigeria yesterday clocked 60 years and there is a reason that 60 is regarded as the age of diamond, the most precious and the hardest naturally-formed mineral yet known. How well do you think we have fared? Despite all the challenges we have had in the past, it is worth celebrating Nigeria. However, I believe we should have made progress on certain areas; economy, especially as it concerns industrialisation. I am speaking from experience. On how it affects Niger State, I can say that we have the capacity, and needed potential to rank us as producers rather than consumers. So far, I am glad with President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts as we are beginning to achieve our position. In the past, all the rice we consumed in Nigeria was imported, but as we speak, there’s a major shift and Nigeria is now a major producer of rice and I strongly believe that we can do more. Even here in Niger State, there are a couple of rice mills and these have led to the creation of job opportunities in the state, request for more rice paddy, which means that our farmers will have to produce more, but of course, the government will have to support them. Surprisingly, we have always been independent until things went wrong. We started importing everything. Even the ones we would have ordinarily produced were imported. A typical example is fuel. Our refineries no longer work. We allowed our infrastructure to irresponsibly breakdown. I believe that at 60 years, we will open a new chapter and a new phase towards revitalising our economy and ensuring that we invest in the future of the younger generation. The way out is simple. What we need to do is to ensure that all industries that are comatose are resuscitated. The importation of those things we could have ordinarily produced no doubt has a negative impact on our economy and on the other hand, led us to sustaining the economies of countries we import from. For instance, the cotton value chain alone can pave the way for millions of Nigerians to be gainfully employed. With this realisation, I am hopeful that we will restart our industries before the end of the year. It is quite unfortunate that despite being an oil-producing country, we still import oil. There is no reason why we should be importing fuel. At 60, I hope that we are able to tell ourselves the bitter truth. We all know what is right and wrong, yet, we don’t have the courage to confront it. I hope we’ll have the courage to confront and address our security challenges. What’s your take on security, perennial flooding and other challenges?    A lot of compromise in the security sector of our country is demoralising. It is demoralising when governors make efforts, heads of security agencies work towards implementing strategies only to be betrayed by security agents. There’s unbearable rate of compromise from security operatives. Security is key; it has affected a lot of agricultural activities. We have issues with the locals going to farm freely because of bandits. At the same time, we suffered a lot of flood. Our 60th birthday as a country has been a very challenging one. We had COVID-19 and our schools have been closed, they are just about to resume, while the activities of bandits are still ongoing. The truth is that life in Niger State has been extremely tough, infrastructure are decayed, all federal roads in the state are in a very deplorable state. We have over 2300km federal roads but less than 10 per cent are motorable. One of the best roads in Niger State, Minna to Bida has been badly damaged due to the pressure by articulated vehicles Yes, it is good to make profits but it shouldn’t be at the detriment of majority of Nigerians. The standard we know of trucks should be 30 tonnes but now we have trucks carrying 50-70 tonnes, tankers loading 30,000-70,000 litres. No road can withstand that. From Paiko to Minna, is a federal road which usually takes about 10 minutes’ drive, but now, the reverse is the case. This is my frustration. It’s raining, you cannot fix those roads, the contractors on the Minna/Bida Road are helpless because it is causing them more money. We are to in fact, pay 10-15 per cent as compensation, if we need the job done. As Nigerians, we have to improve in our character, love one another and wish each other well. We have to reflect on what went wrong and how to address them. I will like to wish Nigeria as a country a happy anniversary and it is my prayer that we see a better future. We have to put in place infrastructure for the future generations by investing in education and the economy. I am very optimistic that we will get there. Nigerlites are not happy that despite hosting about four dams, they still do not enjoy power supply. Aren’t you worried? If yes, how do you hope to address this? I have personally engaged the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) and I think there is a general problem with the distribution companies (DisCos). The power generated is there but the problem is the distribution. As a state government, we also pay about N60 million to AEDC every month, yet they complain that people are not paying bills. From my investigation, those who aren’t paying are doing so because there is barely electricity supply. So, how do you explain that? I set up a committee to meet with the AEDC and I offered that they provide prepaid meters so that our people can pay as they consume. I wanted to face off estimated billings. In my opinion, the required investment in that sector is incomplete and I think the federal government should really look at that process. I offered and provided funds to assist them as loans to purchase meters for customers and we worked out modalities on how the money will be deducted so that we can get back our money back. We have done the assessment, install transformers and wire lines across communities have been done but it has not been energised because they feel the place is not commercially viable. The fact is that we should have some kind of concessions. This is because when we suffer flood, nobody feels it. At the moment, we have over 150 communities under water and more than 20 local government areas affected and nobody is listening to us. This was exactly how we appealed to the federal government to work on the roads, they ignored us until I ordered the closure of Minna/Bida Road. I only opened it because of the intervention of some persons I highly respect. They have, however, given me their words that something will be done and if nothing happens as promised, I will not hesitate to shut it again so that everybody should be grounded. All cargoes pass through Niger State. We are the gateway. Parents taking their children to school are often inconvenienced, pregnant women end up with miscarriages and even Minna roads are destroyed by unlawful truck drivers that think they can take laws into their hands. The same thing applies to power. People are suffering, they don’t see electricity. I will follow up the HYPERDEC Bill. I think we have to work towards its implementation even though that won’t solve our problems completely. During the COVID-19 lockdown, we paid about N80 million to AEDC. It is not sustainable if that is what they want us to do because it is easier for them to get money from government. That gesture was to reduce the sufferings of our people during the lockdown and particularly Ramadan. The number of transformers and cables installed so far is running into billions. It is not our responsibility but that of the DisCos. The process needs to be looked at, the DisCos need to be invited to tell us what the problem is and why they are not investing in the sector. They should know that every Nigerian is entitled to electricity. You don’t say this particular place is commercially viable and the other place is not. As long as they will pay. My findings show that they are ready to pay but they do not want to pay by estimate and I totally agree with them. I acknowledge the sufferings of the communities around the Zungeru Dam, their displacement and their loss of their farms. A major investor, Sunti Sugar had its entire sugarcane plantation washed away. The facility is gone. An N80 billion investment is gone. There should be a special intervention fund to support them and the economy of those areas, otherwise, we are going back to square one. I hope going forward, we will do whatever we can to stimulate our economy and stimulating our economy, we are to make sure that those who lost their livelihood go back helped. Some people rely on electricity to survive. We may at our level not see it as anything but at their level, it is something. There is a multiplier effect at the level because that activity creates jobs and there is circulation of funds. Be it in the public or private sector. Everyone is a leader but the most important thing is that we must have conscience Going forward, I believe those states that are hosting dams should be looked into. I also believe that the DisCos must be pushed to provide prepaid meters, they must be pushed to provide electricity to all the nooks and crannies that there are lines, this is because those people are also Nigerians and they are ready to pay. If electricity is not provided to those areas how will the economy grow? There is definitely a problem with the DisCos but I hope that now that I have involved the HYPPADEC states, with the pressure from all the governors, we will see to the implementation of the HYPPADEC. Zungeru, Baro and Suleja have played significant roles in the development of this nation and recently, Suleja formed part of the establishment of the FCT. Has Niger State been fully compensated for its contributions to national development commensurately? Niger State contributed close to 70 per cent of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and at that time, there was an agreement on compensation. The failure to do what was agreed upon is what is creating problems for us, especially in Suleja today. We have a consultant and he has submitted his report. Hopefully, Niger and Nasarawa State governments will be approaching the federal government on this matter. It is so detailed and it is our intention to get them to implement the agreement. If you look at Suleja, our infrastructure are overstretched. I don’t think we have been compensated adequately. We are talking with the consultant and we are going to look into it. What’s your position on Baro Port? The administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is working towards reactivating the port. The construction of the port is already completed and we are looking at how we can push to ensure that operations begin. We have been assured that before the end of the year, the first batch from Lagos will land Baro and we have also met with some interested private sector partners who have indicated interest. We are gaining momentum about the reactivation of the Baro Port. Recently, I met with the managing director of the Nigerian Railway Corporation and we discussed about the re-organising economic potential in Baro to make it a success. We are going into a PPP arrangement so that they will provide some locomotives and wagons for us to operate from Baro to Minna and from Minna to Akare in Wushishi local government area.    We have set up a joint committee between Niger State government and Nigeria Railway Corporation. Their mandate is to look at the technicalities and the financial implications. We also included transportation between Minna and Kaduna by rail. The federal government awarded a lot of contracts on federal roads in Niger State but there is no funding. We have reconstructed about 30km on Suleja/Minna Road without refund. I believe that with the support of the President, Baro will be reactivated and it will increase economic activities. I am discussing roads with the federal government especially those that have economic potential then we can do the social ones and Baro is one of such roads with economic potential. What’s your assessment of Niger State at 44 years after its creation, considering the fact Nigeria was birth in one of its ancient city? When I came to Niger they had a system in place but I don’t know where we got it wrong. I noticed exciting infrastructure and investments made by our forefathers. Sadly, most of these projects have been abandoned. Probably, because of politics, any government that comes will want to commission projects that led us to a very decaying system. I found out that a lot of new contracts that were not necessary were awarded but as a political head, if you don’t embark and commission new ones, critics will start asking you to show what you have done when you invest on something, maintenance culture is key. When we came in there were schools that have not seen paints for over 40 years, schools where students sleep on the floor and schools without toilets. Our water boards in major towns had to undergo rehabilitation, fixing of high and low pumps. Reticulation is the major problem we are having. Minna. Bida and Kontagora have been completed. When you invest in something, maintenance is key. We have very poor maintenance culture I decided in our first term that we shouldn’t embark on any new project, we should try to continue and finish the ones we met on ground and that was what brought about the whole school approach. So instead of us building new schools we decided to renovate and rebuild that one we have. We have started fixing our hospitals too. It is better we invest in already existing facility and build new one when there is need. But if a new government comes, they will want to abandon what the previous government did and start new ones. This won’t take us anywhere. I want to see a changed Niger State having reached 44 years. I want to see continuity regardless of the party. Continuity is for the benefit of our people, we have to make sure that the system works efficiently. Of course, there is need for new projects but there is also need to have a robust maintenance culture to ensure that everything is working perfectly. We have to ensure that investments made 40 years ago by our predecessors don’t die vain; we have to ensure that they are very functional. Nigeria is still battling with security challenges, particularly in the North. A case at hand is the recent attack on a governor’s convoy. What do you think must have gone wrong and what is the way forward? We are all disturbed about the security challenges the country is faced with. In fact, the situation in Niger State would have been worse, if not for the proactive steps we took. We engaged traditional rulers, the police and the vigilantes. The burden of security falls on everyone and not just the governments. This is because insecurity remains the major factor pushing us backwards. I am proud to say that we are getting the support of the service chiefs.  